---

title: Modulating the Cdc14B-Cdh1-Plk1 axis and methods for sensitizing target cells to apoptosis
abstract: The invention relates to modulating Cdc14B levels (cell division cycle 14 homolog B) and/or Cdh1 (Fzr1 protein, CDC20-like 1b, or fizzy-related protein) levels to sensitize cells to DNA damage by increasing the abundance of Plk1 (polo-like kinase 1) in a target cell. In certain embodiments, the invention relates to modulating Plk1 levels, and in particular to increasing Plk1 levels, to sensitize target cells such as cancer cells to cell death or apoptosis. In certain embodiments, the invention relates to inhibitors of Cdc14B and Cdh1 that sensitize tumor cells to chemotherapy or radiation induced cell death or apoptosis. In addition to applications relating to cancer therapies and diagnostics, the Plk1 modulators and assays will be employed for identifying novel drugs or drug candidates useful for various proliferative and/or differentiative disorders such as major opportunistic infections, immune disorders, cardiovascular diseases and inflammatory disorders.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08586297&OS=08586297&RS=08586297
owner: New York University
number: 08586297
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120606
---
The present application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 499 208 filed on Jul. 8 2009 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 081 720 filed on Jul. 17 2008 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made in part in the course of research sponsored by the National Institutes of Health NIH Grants R01 GM57587 R37 CA76584 and R21 CA125173. The U.S. government may have certain rights in this invention.

The invention relates to modulating Cdc14B levels cell division cycle 14 homolog B and or Cdh1 levels fizzed related Fzr to sensitize cells to DNA damage by increasing the abundance of Plk1 polo like kinase 1 in a target cell. In certain embodiments the invention relates to modulating Plk1 levels and in particular to increasing Plk1 levels to sensitize target cells such as cancer cells to cell death or apoptosis

Ubiquitin mediated proteolysis is an important pathway of non lysosomal protein degradation which controls the timed destruction of many cellular regulatory proteins including p27 p53 p300 cyclins E2F STAT 1 c Myc c Jun EGF receptor I B NF B and catenin reviewed in Pagano 1997 FASEB J. 11 1067 . Ubiquitin is an highly conserved 76 amino acid polypeptide that is abundantly present in all eukaryotic cells. The ubiquitin pathway leads to the covalent attachment of a poly ubiquitin chain to target substrates which are then degraded by the multi catalytic proteasome complex see Pagano supra for a recent review . Many of the steps regulating protein ubiquitination are known. Initially the ubiquitin activating enzyme E1 forms a high energy thioester with ubiquitin which is in turn transferred to a reactive cysteine residue of one of many ubiquitin conjugating enzymes Ubcs or E2s . The final transfer of ubiquitin to an e amino group of a reactive lysine residue in the target protein occurs in a reaction that may or may not require an ubiquitin ligase E3 protein. The large number of ubiquitin ligases ensures a high level of substrate specificity.

Genetic and biochemical studies in several organisms have shown that the G1 phase of the cell cycle is regulated by the ubiquitin pathway. Proteolysis of cyclins Ckis and other G1 regulatory proteins is controlled in yeast by the ubiquitin conjugating enzyme Ubc3 also called Cdc34 and by an E3 ubiquitin ligase formed by three subunits Cdc53 Skp1 and one of many F box proteins reviewed in Patton et al. 1998 Trends in Genet. 14 6 . The F box proteins FBPs are so called because they contain a motif the F Box that was first identified in Cyclin F and that is necessary for FBP interaction with Skp1 Bai et al. 1996 Cell 86 263 . Cdc53 also called Cul A and Skp1 appear to participate in the formation of at least three distinct E3s each containing a different FBP. Because these ligases are similar protein modules composed of Skp1 Cul A and an FBP they have been named SCF. The three SCFs identified in are SCF which recruits the Ckis Sic1 and Far1 the replication factor Cdc6 and the transcriptional activator Gcn4 as substrates through the F Box protein Cdc4 SCF which recruits the G1 cyclins Cln1 and Cln2 as substrates through the F Box protein GRR1 and SCF which recruits the G1 cyclin Cln3 as a substrate throughout the F box protein MET30 see Pagano and Patton supra for recent reviews .

The interaction of SCF ligase with its substrates occurs via the FBP. FBPs are present in all eukaryotes at least 54 in mammals Cenciarelli et al. 1999 Current Biol. 9 1177 Winston et al. 1999 Current Biol. 9 1180 . In addition to the F Box many FBPs contain additional domains that facilitate both protein protein interactions e.g. WD 40 domains or leucine rich repeats LRRs and protein DNA interactions e.g. tankyrase binding domains or HNH domains. Since the substrate specificity of SCF ligases is dictated by different FBPs that act as substrate targeting subunits the large numbers of FBPs with varying combinations of protein or DNA interaction domains ensure highly specific substrate recognition.

Fbp1 the mammalian homolog of TrCP1 transducin repeat containing protein Spevak et al. 1993 Mol. Cell. Biol. 8 4953 was identified using Skp1 as a bait in a two hybrid screen Cenciarelli et al. supra . Fbp1 is an F box protein containing seven WD 40 domains Margottin et al. 1998 Mol. Cell 1 565 and is involved in the degradation of I B family members in response to NF B activating stimuli Gonen et al. 1999 J. Biol. Chem. 274 14823 Hatakeyama et al. 1999 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 96 3859 Hattori et al. 1999 J. Biol. Chem. 274 29641 Kroll et al. 1999 J. Biol. Chem. 274 7941 Ohta et al. 1999 Mol. Cell 3 535 Shirane et al. 1999 J. Biol. Chem. 274 28169 Spencer et al. 1999 Genes Dev. 13 284 Winston et al. 1999 Genes Dev. 13 270 Wu and Ghosh 1999 J. Biol. Chem. 274 29591 Yaron et al. 1998 Nature 396 590 . In addition consistent with the finding that and Fbp1 orthologs act as negative regulators of the Wnt catenin signaling pathway Jiang and Struhl 1998 Nature 391 493 Marikawa and Elinson 1998 Mech. Dev. 77 75 several studies report that human Fbp1 controls catenin stability in vitro and in mammalian cultured cells Hart et al. 1999 Curr. Biol. 9 207 Hatakeyama et al. supra Kitagawa et al. 1999 EMBO J. 18 2401 Latres et al. 1999 Oncogene 18 849 Winston et al. 1999 Genes Dev. 13 270 .

Well characterized substrates of mammalian Fbp1 have been found to share a common destruction motif DSGxxS and are recognized by Fbp1 only upon phosphorylation of the two serine residues present in this motif. There is however some recent evidence for additional mammalian substrates of Fbp1 lacking a completely conserved binding domain such as ATF4 Lassot et al. 2001 Mol. Cell. Biol. 21 2192 Smad3 Fukuchi et al. 2001 Mol. Biol. Cell 12 1431 NF B p105 Orian et al. 2000 EMBO J. 19 2580 and NF B p100 Fong and Sun 2002 J. Biol. Chem. 277 22111 . A conserved DSGxxS motif is present not only in Fbp1 substrates but also in certain regulators of Fbp1 such as the HIV protein Vpu which targets Fbp1 to the non physiological substrate CD4 in virally infected cells. Margottin et al. supra . The DSGxxS destruction motif may also be found in peptide regulators of Fbp1 termed pseudosubstrates however pseudosubstrates escape the normal degradation fate of other FBP target proteins and instead modulate the activity of the FBP and corresponding Cks such as cellular localization and substrate targeting. For example the Fbp1 pseudosubstrate hnRNP U not only inhibits Fpb1 from targeting inappropriate substrates but also serves to localize Fbp1 to the nucleus Davis et al. 2002 Genes Dev. 16 439 .

A further level of complexity is added by the presence of a Fbp1 TrCP1 beta transducin repeat containing protein 1 paralogous gene product called TrCP2 beta transducin repeat containing protein 2 or Fbxw1B 78 identical 86 similar to TrCP1 Kipreos and Pagano 2000 Genome Biology 1 3002.1 . Fbp1 and TrCP2 are ubiquitously expressed in adult human tissues Cenciarelli et al. supra Koike et al. 2000 Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 269 103 . In addition TrCP2 has biochemical properties similar to Fbp1 in its ability to sustain the ubiquitinylation of both catenin and IKB family members in vitro and to control their degradation in mammalian cultured cells Fuchs et al. 1999 Oncogene 18 2039 Suzuki et al. 1999 Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 256 127 Tan et al. 1999 Mol. Cell 3 527 . Despite these similarities Fbp1 localizes to the nucleus and TrCP2 localizes mainly to the cytoplasm Davis et al. 2002 Genes Dev. 16 439 . It is not clear whether these two FBPs have overlapping functions in vivo or if each of them recognizes specific substrates.

Cancer develops when cells multiply too quickly. Cell proliferation is determined by the net balance of positive and negative signals. When positive signals overcome or when negative signals are absent the cells multiply too quickly and cancer develops.

Ordinarily cells precisely control the amount of any given protein and eliminate the excess or any unwanted protein. To do so the cell ubiquitinates the undesired protein to tag the protein for proteasome degradation. This mechanism goes awry in tumors leading to the excessive accumulation of positive signals oncogenic proteins or resulting in the abnormal degradation of negative regulators tumor suppressor proteins . Thus without tumor suppressor proteins or in the presence of too much of an oncogenic protein cells multiply without control forming tumors reviewed by Ciechanover 1998 EMBO J. 17 7151 Spataro 1998 Br. J. Cancer 77 448 . For example abnormal ubiquitin mediated degradation of the p53 tumor suppressor reviewed by Brown and Pagano 1997 Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1332 1 the putative oncogene catenin reviewed by Peifer 1997 Science 275 1752 and the Cki p27 reviewed in Ciechanover supra Spataro supra Lloyd 1999 Am. J. Pathol. 154 313 have been correlated with tumorigenesis opening to the hypothesis that some genes encoding ubiquitinating enzymes may be mutated in tumors.

Initial evidence indicates that human F box proteins play a role in the ubiquitination of G1 regulatory proteins as do their homologues in yeast. Unchecked degradation of cell cycle regulatory proteins has been observed in certain tumors and it is possible that deregulated ubiquitin ligase plays a role in the altered degradation of cell cycle regulators. A well understood example is that of Mdm2 a ubiquitin ligase whose overexpression induces low levels of its substrate the tumor suppressor p53.

Alternately F box proteins have been shown to interact directly with DNA regulating proteins or DNA itself. F box proteins in yeast are known to regulate genomic stability and senescence and recent data has shown that F box inhibition in mammalian cells can lead to the loss of DNA damage checkpoints.

The Anaphase Promoting Complex or Cyclosome APC C is a ubiquitin ligase that plays a crucial role in the regulation of mitosis and the G1 phase of the cell cycle Peters 2006 . In early mitosis APC C is activated through binding to Cdc20 and in late M Cdc20 is replaced by Cdh1 the second activator of APC C. During G1 APC Cremains active to ensure that certain positive regulators of the cell cycle do not accumulate prematurely. Then at the G1 S transition APC Cis inactivated by phosphorylation to allow stabilization of its substrates and promote progression into S phase. Cdk1 cyclin A and Cdk2 cyclin A mediate the phosphorylation of Cdh1 resulting in the dissociation of Cdh1 from the APC C core Lukas et al. 1999 Mitra et al. 2006 Sorensen et al. 2001 . Other mechanisms inhibiting APC Cactivity include Emi1 binding and degradation of both Cdh1 and Ubc10 a ubiquitin conjugating enzyme that works with APC C . During G2 both Cdh1 and Ubc10 reaccumulate but APC Cremains inactive due to CDK dependent phosphorylation of Cdh1 and the presence of Emi1. In early mitosis Emi1 is eliminated via the SCFubiquitin ligase but the bulk of APC Cremains inactive due to high Cdk1 activity. Ultimately Cdh1 activation in anaphase involves Cdk1 inactivation by APC Cand Cdh1 dephosphorylation. In yeast this dephosphorylation is carried out by the Cdc14 phosphatase but the mechanism in mammals remains unclear D Amours and Amon 2004 Sullivan and Morgan 2007 .

Upon DNA damage proliferating cells activate a regulatory signaling network to either arrest the cell cycle and enable DNA repair or if the DNA damage is too extensive to be repaired induce apoptosis Bartek and Lukas 2007 Harper and Elledge 2007 Kastan and Bartek 2004 . The DNA damage response involves a number of factors that ultimately coordinate the spatiotemporal assembly of protein complexes at the site of DNA damage to initiate and maintain the checkpoint. Depending on the type of genotoxic stress different checkpoint pathways are activated. UV and stalled replication forks activate the ATR Chk1 pathway whereas double strand breaks result in the activation of both the ATM Chk2 and the ATR Chk1 pathways. After ATR is recruited to the site of damage it phosphorylates and activates the effector kinase Chk1 a process requiring the mediator protein Claspin. Important downstream targets of Chk1 include p53 and Cdc25A a transcription factor and an activator of Cdk1 respectively. Chk1 mediated phosphorylation induces the stabilization of p53 with the consequent expression of the CDK inhibitor p21 and is required for the SCF mediated degradation of Cdc25A thus Chk1 activation results in the attenuation of Cdk1 activity with the consequent inhibition of mitosis.

During the recovery from DNA replication and DNA damage stresses the G2 checkpoint must be silenced. This process involves the degradation of Claspin via the SCFubiquitin ligase following the phosphorylation of Claspin by Plk1 Mailand et al. 2006 Mamely et al. 2006 Peschiaroli et al. 2006 . However if DNA damage occurs during G2 SCF dependent ubiquitylation of Claspin is inhibited to re establish the checkpoint. The blocking of Claspin ubiquitylation is at least partially due to the inhibition of Plk1 which occurs in response to DNA damage Smits et al. 2000 . In fact Claspin is not phosphorylated on its degron and does not bind Trcp in G2 cells that have been subjected to DNA damage Peschiaroli et al. 2006 . However despite the lack of SCF Plk1 dependent ubiquitylation Claspin continues to be ubiquitylated only remaining stable due to a deubiquitylating enzyme DUB namely Usp28 Zhang et al. 2006 .

There is a general need for treatments relating to regulating or affecting the cell cycle to sensitize target cells such as tumor or cancer cells to cell death or apoptosis. In particular there is a need for small molecule inhibitors that are useful as therapeutic agents as well as for diagnostic and screening tools for identifying test therapeutic candidates.

The present invention provides a method of sensitizing a cell to cell death or apoptosis comprising contacting a target cell with an effective amount of an inhibitor of Cdc14B and or Cdh1. In certain embodiments the inhibitor results in an increase in the amount of protein compared to the amount of Plk1 protein prior to use of an effective amount of the inhibitor.

In certain embodiments the invention relates to a method of sensitizing a cell to apoptosis or cell death comprising contacting the cell with an effective amount of an inhibitor of Cdc14B and or Cdh1. In certain embodiments the level of Plk1 protein polo like kinase 1 also known as Plk STPK13 or polo like kinase homolog in the cell is increased compared to the amount of Plk1 in the cell prior to use of the inhibitor.

In certain embodiments the cell is a diseased or abnormal cell from tissue or a cell line that exhibits a disease or abnormal condition selected from the group consisting of cancer infection immune disorder cardiovascular disease and inflammatory disorders.

In yet additional embodiments the method further comprises contacting the cell with a second agent for sensitizing the cell to DNA damage or for inducing apoptosis or cell death of a target cell.

In yet additional embodiments the invention relates to a method of killing a cell comprising contacting the cell with an amount of an inhibitor of Cdc14B and or Cdh1 that is effective to sensitize the cell to apoptosis or cell death.

In certain embodiments the level of Plk1 protein polo like kinase 1 also known as Plk STPK13 or polo like kinase homolog in the cell is increased compared to the amount of Plk1 in the cell prior to use of the inhibitor.

In yet additional embodiments the method further comprises contacting the cell with a second agent for sensitizing the cell to DNA damage or for inducing apoptosis or cell death of a target cell.

In further embodiments the invention relates to a method of screening for an agent for sensitizing a target cell to apoptosis or cell death comprising i contacting a cell expressing Cdc14B and or Cdh1 with a test compound and ii comparing the degradation rate of the Cdc14B and or Cdh1 to a control wherein the control is the degradation rate of Cdc14B and or Cdh1 in the absence of the test compound and iii selecting a test compound that increases the degradation rate Cdc14B and or Cdh1 as a compound for sensitizing a target cell to apoptosis or cell death.

In further embodiments the invention relates to a method of screening for an agent for sensitizing a cancer cell to apoptosis or cell death i contacting a cell expressing Cdc14B and or Cdh1 with a test compound ii comparing the amount of Cdc14B and or Cdh1 present in the cell in the presence and in the absence of the test compound and iii selecting a test compound that decreases the amount of Cdc14B and or Cdh1 in the cell as an agent for sensitizing a cancer cell to apoptosis or cell death.

In yet additional embodiments the target cell is a diseased or abnormal cell from tissue or a cell line that exhibits a disease or an abnormal condition selected from the group consisting of cancer infection immune disorder cardiovascular disease and inflammatory disorders.

In further embodiments the test compound is an siRNA. In certain embodiments the siRNA comprises SEQ ID NO 20 SEQ ID NO 21 or a combination of both SEQ ID NO 20 and SEQ ID NO 21.

In yet additional embodiments the Cdc14B or Cdh1 comprises the sequence of SEQ ID NO 15 or SEQ ID NO 10.

In further embodiments the invention relates to a method of treating cancer in a mammalian subject which comprises administering an effective amount of at least one Cdc14B or Cdh1 inhibitor to a mammalian subject suffering from cancer wherein the inhibitor sensitizes cancer cells to chemotherapy.

In certain embodiments the Cdc14B and or Cdh1 inhibitor results in an increase in the amount of Plk1 protein polo like kinase 1 also known as Plk STPK13 or polo like kinase homolog in a cell when compared to the amount of Plk1 protein in said cell prior to administering the inhibitor.

In yet additional embodiments the invention relates to a kit for screening for an agent useful for modulating Plk1 protein polo like kinase 1 also known as Plk STPK13 or polo like kinase homolog activity comprising a Plk1 protein at least one Plk1 binding protein selected from the group of Cdc14B cell division cycle 14 homolog B also called dual specificity protein phosphatase CDClB and Cdh1 protein fizzed related Fzr a means for detecting binding between the Plk1 and the Cdc14B and or Cdh1 protein and optionally instructions for use.

In further embodiments the invention relates to a kit for screening for an agent useful for sensitizing a cell to apoptosis or cell death a Plk1 protein polo like kinase 1 also known as Plk STPK13 or polo like kinase homolog at least one Plk1 binding protein selected from the group of Cdc14B cell division cycle 14 homolog B also called dual specificity protein phosphatase CDC14B and Cdh1 protein fizzed related Fzr a means for detecting binding between the Plk1 protein and the Cdc14B and or Cdh1 protein and optionally instructions for use.

In yet additional embodiments the invention relates to a method for sensitizing a cell to apoptosis or cell death in a target cell of a mammal in need thereof which comprises contacting said target cell with an effective amount of an inhibitor of Cdc14B and or Cdh1.

In certain embodiments the cell is a diseased or abnormal cell from a mammal that exhibits a disease or abnormal condition selected from the group consisting of cancer infection immune disorder cardiovascular disease and inflammatory disorders.

In yet additional embodiments the method further comprises contacting the cell with a second agent for sensitizing the cell to DNA damage or for inducing apoptosis or cell death of a target cell. In certain embodiments the mammal is a human.

In additional embodiments the inhibitor of Cdc14B and or Cdh1 comprises SEQ ID NO 20 SEQ ID NO 21 or a combination of both SEQ ID NO 20 and SEQ ID NO 21.

In yet further embodiments the invention relates to a method of screening for an agent for sensitizing a target cell to apoptosis or cell death comprising i measuring the level of Cdc14B cell division cycle 14 homolog B also called dual specificity protein phosphatase CDC14B and or Cdh1 levels fizzed related Fzr expressed by a target cell ii contacting the target cell that expresses Cdc14B and or Cdh1 with a test compound iii measuring the amount of Cdc14B and or Cdh1 expressed by the cell after said contacting step iv comparing the level of Cdc14B and or Cdh1 expression in said cell before and after said contacting step and v selecting as a therapeutic agent candidate a test compound that decreases the level of Cdc14B and or Cdh1 by said target cell.

In yet additional embodiments the invention relates to a method of screening for an agent for sensitizing a target cell to apoptosis or cell death comprising i measuring the level of Plk1 polo like kinase 1 also known as Plk STPK13 or polo like kinase homolog protein expressed by a target cell ii contacting the target cell that expresses Plk1 protein with a test compound iii measuring the amount of Plk1 protein expressed by the cell after said contacting step iv comparing the level of Plk1 expression in said cell before and after said contacting step and v selecting as a therapeutic agent candidate a test compound that increases the level of Plk1 protein by said target cell.

In certain embodiments the invention relates to modulating Cdc14B levels cell division cycle 14 homolog B also called dual specificity protein phosphatase CDClB and or Cdh1 levels fizzed related Fzr to sensitize cells to DNA damage by increasing the abundance of Plk1 polo like kinase 1 also known as Plk STPK13 or polo like kinase homolog in a target cell. In certain embodiments the invention relates to modulating Plk1 levels and in particular to increasing Plk1 levels to sensitize target cells such as cancer cells to cell death or apoptosis. In certain embodiments the invention relates to inhibitors of Cdc14B and Cdh1 that sensitize tumor cells to chemotherapy or radiation induced cell death or apoptosis. In addition to applications relating to cancer therapies and diagnostics the Plk1 modulators and assays can be employed for identifying novel drugs or drug candidates useful for various proliferative and or differentiative disorders such as major opportunistic infections immune disorders cardiovascular diseases and inflammatory disorders.

In another aspect of the present invention the phosphatase Cdc14B has been shown to translocate from the nucleolus to the nucleoplasm in response to genotoxic stress in G2 phase and induces the activation of the ubiquitin ligase APC C Anaphase Promoting Complex Cyclosome and its activator Cdh1 with the consequent degradation of Plk1 a prominent promitotic kinase. This process induces the stabilization of Claspin and Wee1 because the proteolysis of these two proteins requires phosphorylation by Plk1. It was also shown that the stabilization of Claspin promotes the activation of Chk1 the stabilization of Wee1 attenuates Cdk1 activity. Consequently inactivation of Cdc14B or Cdh1 increases the susceptibility of tumor cells to DNA damage. The elucidation of this mechanism of DNA damage response in G2 provides targets for killing tumor cells and in particular cancer cells in cooperation with other DNA damaging or chemotherapeutic agents. In particular these results show that modulating Plk1 activity and in certain embodiments increasing the Plk1 activity provides a method for sensitizing cells to DNA damage leading to cell death or apoptosis of a target cell including a cancer cell.

Identifying the Cdc14B Cdh1 Plk1 axis as a mechanism by which Plk1 is inactivated in response to DNA damage in G2 provides a system for identifying agents and methods for potentiating the killing of cancerous cells. Certain aspects of the invention relate to using Cdc14B and Cdh1 to modulate the level of Plk1. In a particular embodiment Cdc14B and or Cdh1 are inactivated leading to the susceptibility of a tumor cell such as a cancer cell to DNA damage. In certain embodiments the activity of Cdc14B and or Cdh1 is blocked leading to the susceptibility of a tumor cell such as a cancer cell to DNA damage.

Certain embodiments of the present invention are not limited to any particular amino acid or nucleic acid sequence. In some embodiments certain specified sequences are preferred.

Human TrCP1 has been sequenced and has an amino acid sequence according to Accession No. NP 378663 SEQ ID NO 1 the TrCP1 coding sequence is Accession No. 033637 SEQ ID NO 2 while a cDNA fragment corresponds to SEQ ID NO 3. The TrCP1 gene encodes a member of the F box protein family which is characterized by an approximately 40 amino acid motif the F box Fbox Motif TrCP1 DHIAENILSYLDAKSLCAAELVCKEWYRVTSDGMLWKK SEQ ID NO 19 . The F box proteins constitute one of the four subunits of ubiquitin protein ligase complex called SCFs SKP1 cullin F box which function in phosphorylation dependent ubiquitination. The F box proteins are divided into 3 classes Fbws containing WD 40 domains Fbls containing leucine rich repeats and Fbxs containing either different protein protein interaction modules or no recognizable motifs. The protein encoded by this gene belongs to the Fbws class in addition to an F box this protein contains multiple WD 40 repeats. This protein is homologous to TrCP1 yeast Met30 Scon2 and Slimb proteins. It interacts with HIV 1 Vpu and connects CD4 to the proteolytic machinery. It also associates specifically with phosphorylated I B and catenin destruction motifs most likely functioning in multiple transcriptional programs by activating the NF B pathway and inhibiting the catenin pathway. Human TrCP1 is a variant that contains an additional 108 nt fragment within the coding region as compared to human variant 2 TrCP2 and thus encodes an in frame 36 aa longer isoform than human variant TrCP2.

Human TrCP2 has been sequenced and has an amino acid sequence according to GenBank Accession No. 003930 SEQ ID NO 4 the coding sequence is GenBank Accession No. 003939 SEQ ID NO 5 .

Human Cdc25A cell division cycle 25A protein has been sequenced and is a 524 amino acid long protein according to GenBank Accession No. NP001780 SEQ ID NO 6 the coding sequence is GenBank Accession No. NM001789 SEQ ID NO 7 .

Human Claspin protein has been characterized and has a GenBank Accession No. NP071394.2 SEQ ID NO 9 . The coding sequence is found in GenBank Accession No. NM022111 SEQ ID NO 8 .

Human Cdh1 also known as Fzr1 protein CDC20 like 1b or fizzy related protein has been characterized and has GenBank Accession No. NP057347 SEQ ID NO 10 . The coding sequence is found in GenBank Accession No. NM016263 SEQ ID NO 11 .

Human Cdc20 has been characterized as a protein that has GenBank Accession No. CAB92757 UniProtKB Swiss Prot Q12834 SEQ ID NO 12 . The coding sequence is contained within the genome locus Genbank Accession No. AL139289.

Human Cdc14B has been characterized and has at least three isoforms variants. The isoform 1 protein has GenBank Accession No. NM003662 SEQ ID NO 15 . The coding sequence for isoform 1 corresponds to GenBank Accession No. NM003671. SEQ ID NO 16 . The isoform 2 protein has GenBank Accession No. NP201588 SEQ ID NO 30 . The coding sequence for isoform 2 corresponds to GenBank Accession No. NM033331 SEQ ID NO 31 . The isoform 3 protein has GenBank Accession No. NP001070649 SEQ ID NO 32 . The coding sequence for isoform 3 corresponds to GenBank Accession No. NM001077181. SEQ ID NO 33 .

Human Cdc14A has been characterized as a protein that has GenBank Accession No. AAH38979 SEQ ID NO 13 . The coding sequence for Cdc14A corresponds to GenBank Accession No. BC038979 SEQ ID NO 14 .

Human Plk1 wildtype wt has been characterized as a protein and has GenBank Accession No. P53350. SEQ ID NO 17 . Mutants R337A and L340A are utilized in the present experiments. The coding sequence corresponds to GenBank Accession No. NM005030. SEQ ID NO 18 .

In accordance with the present invention there may be employed conventional molecular biology microbiology protein expression and purification antibody and recombinant DNA techniques within the skill of the art. Such techniques are explained fully in the literature. See e.g. Sambrook et al. 2001 3ed. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. Ausubel et al. eds. 2005 . John Wiley and Sons Inc. Hoboken N.J. Bonifacino et al. eds. 2005 . John Wiley and Sons Inc. Hoboken N.J. Coligan et al. eds. 2005 John Wiley and Sons Inc. Hoboken N.J. Coico et al. eds. 2005 John Wiley and Sons Inc. Hoboken N.J. Coligan et al. eds. 2005 John Wiley and Sons Inc. Hoboken N.J. and Enna et al. eds. 2005 John Wiley and Sons Inc. Hoboken N.J. Hames Higgins eds. 1985 Hames Higgins eds. 1984 Freshney ed. 1986 IRL Press 1986 Perbal 1984 and Harlow and Lane. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press 1988 .

The following definitions are provided for clarity and illustrative purposes only and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

The term apoptosis means a form of cell death in which a programmed sequence of events leads to the elimination of cells. Apoptosis plays an important role in developing and maintaining health by eliminating old cells unnecessary cells and unhealthy cells. The human body replaces perhaps a million cells a second. Too little or too much apoptosis plays a role in many diseases. When programmed cell death does not work properly cells that should be eliminated may remain and become immortal. An example of the lack of proper apoptosis occurs for example in cancer and leukemia. Impaired apoptosis is central for the development of cancer. Defects in apoptosis not only provide the cells an intrinsic survival advantage but also confer resistance to chemotherapeutic drugs. When apoptosis works too well it kills too many cells and inflicts tissue damage. Apoptosis is also called programmed cell death or cell suicide.

The term cell death is used generally to mean any type of cell death and is not limited to programmed cell death or apoptosis

A transducin repeat containing protein or TrCP herein is a protein belonging to the family of F box proteins containing 6 7 repeats of WD40 domains. Synonyms of TrCP1 2 include Fbw1a FWD1a Fbw1b FWD1b FBP1 and Hos. An F box motif is a stretch of about 40 amino acids identified as being necessary for the interaction of F box proteins with Skp1. The consensus sequence of an F box motif is described in Bai et al. Cell 1996 86 263 274 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. A WD40 domain is a consensus sequence of about 40 amino acid repeats rich in tryptophan Trp and aspartic acid Asp residues Neer et al. Nature 1996 371 297 300 and references therein all of which hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties . A TrCP protein is characterized by being capable of a substrate specificity for at least one preferably at least two more preferably at least three and most preferably at least all of phosphorylated Cdc25A catenin Emi1 Guardavaccaro et al. Developmental Cell 2003 4 799 812 and IkB Soldatenkov et al. Cancer Res. 1999 59 5085 5088 . A TrCP protein exhibits at least 50 70 80 90 95 96 97 98 or 99 sequence identity to at least one of the TrCP1 amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 1 or the TrCP2 amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 4 and includes functionally equivalent derivates of TrCP1 and TrCP2 such as mutants conjugates including radiolabeled or chemically tagged TrCP1 2 fusion proteins and fragments thereof which retain the substrate specificity of a TrCP. TrCP means TrCP1 and or TrCP2 .

As used herein a TrCP inhibitor is a compound or agent that causes one or more of the following reducing TrCP1 2 expression translation or activity or increasing TrCP1 2 degradation.

A cell division cycle 25A or Cdc25A protein herein means a protein comprising a peptide sequence corresponding at least to residues 82 88 of human wild type Cdc25A with reference to the full sequence SEQ ID NO 6 . Preferably the peptide sequence comprises a sequence corresponding to residues 80 93 of human wild type Cdc25A with reference to the full sequence SEQ ID NO 6 . To function as a substrate for a TrCP the serine residues corresponding to residues 82 and 88 of SEQ ID NO 6 must be at least phosphorylated preferably double phosphorylated. Exemplary Cdc25A fragments useful for testing binding to or ubiquitination by TrCP1 2 include peptides corresponding to residues 73 95 of SEQ ID NO 6 and residues 80 93 of SEQ ID NO 6.

Cdc14B cell division cycle 14 homolog B also called dual specificity protein phosphatase CDClB . This protein is highly similar to Cdc14 a protein tyrosine phosphatase involved in the exit of cell mitosis and initiation of DNA replication which suggests the role in cell cycle control.

Cdh1 serves to sensitize cells to DNA damage by increasing the abundance of Plk1 polo like kinase 1 also known as Plk STPK13 or polo like kinase homolog in a target cell. Cdh1 regulates ubiquitin ligase activity of the anaphase promoting complex cyclosome APC C confers substrate specificity upon the complex. The APC C Cdh1 dimeric complex is activated during anaphase and telophase and remains active in degrading substrates until onset of the next S phase.

Plk1 polo like kinase 1 also known as Plk STPK13 or polo like kinase homolog is involved in the formation of and the changes in the mitotic spindle and in the activation of CDK cyclin complexes during the M phase of mitosis. Plk1 is involved in the formation of and the changes in the mitotic spindle and in the activation of CDK cyclin complexes during the M phase of mitosis.

A DNA damaging agent is a chemical compound or treatment method that induces DNA damage when applied to a cell including single strand breaks double strand breaks and alkylation. Such agents include without limitation ionizing radiation and waves that induce DNA damage such as irradiation X rays UV irradiation microwaves electronic emissions and the like. A variety of chemical compounds also described as chemotherapeutic agents function to induce DNA damage all of which are intended to be of use in the combined treatment methods disclosed herein. Contemplated chemotherapeutic agents include alkylating agents such as mitomycin C adozelesin cis platinum and nitrogen mustard.

 Ubiquitin ligation ubiquitination and ubiquitinylation as used herein all refer to the addition of a ubiquitin polypeptide to a protein substrate targeted for degradation.

The term about or approximately means within an acceptable range for the particular value as determined by one of ordinary skill in the art which will depend in part on how the value is measured or determined e.g. the limitations of the measurement system. For example about can mean a range of up to 20 preferably up to 10 more preferably up to 5 and more preferably still up to 1 of a given value. Alternatively particularly with respect to biological systems or processes the term can mean within an order of magnitude preferably within 5 fold and more preferably within 2 fold of a value. Unless otherwise stated the term about means within an acceptable error range for the particular value.

In the case of the present invention parenteral routes of administration are also possible. Such routes include intravenous intra arteriole intramuscular intradermal subcutaneous intraperitoneal transmucosal intranasal rectal vaginal or transdermal routes. If desired inactivated therapeutic formulations may be injected e.g. intravascular intratumor subcutaneous intraperitoneal intramuscular etc. In a preferred embodiment the route of administration is oral. Although there are no physical limitations to delivery of the formulation oral delivery is preferred because of its ease and convenience and because oral formulations readily accommodate additional mixtures such as milk and infant formula.

As used herein the term adjuvant refers to a compound or mixture that enhances the immune response to an antigen. An adjuvant can serve as a tissue depot that slowly releases the antigen and also as a lymphoid system activator that non specifically enhances the immune response Hood et al. 1984 Benjamin Cummings Menlo Park Calif. p. 384 . Often a primary challenge with an antigen alone in the absence of an adjuvant will fail to elicit a humoral or cellular immune response. Adjuvants include but are not limited to complete Freund s adjuvant incomplete Freund s adjuvant saponin mineral gels such as aluminum hydroxide surface active substances such as lysolecithin pluronic polyols polyanions peptides oil or hydrocarbon emulsions keyhole limpet hemocyanins and potentially useful human adjuvants such as N acetyl muramyl L threonyl D isoglutamine thr MDP N acetyl nor muramyl L alanyl D isoglutamine N acetylmuramyl L alanyl D isoglutaminyl L alanine 2 1 2 dipalmitoyl sn glycero 3 hydroxyphosphoryloxy ethylamine BCG and . Preferably the adjuvant is pharmaceutically acceptable.

 Amplification of DNA as used herein denotes the use of polymerase chain reaction PCR to increase the concentration of a particular DNA sequence within a mixture of DNA sequences. For a description of PCR see Saiki et al. Science 1988 239 487.

The term carrier refers to a diluent adjuvant excipient or vehicle with which the compound is administered. Such pharmaceutical carriers can be sterile liquids such as water and oils including those of petroleum animal vegetable or synthetic origin such as peanut oil soybean oil mineral oil sesame oil and the like. Water or aqueous solution saline solutions and aqueous dextrose and glycerol solutions are preferably employed as carriers particularly for injectable solutions. Alternatively the carrier can be a solid dosage form carrier including but not limited to one or more of a binder for compressed pills a glidant an encapsulating agent a flavorant and a colorant. Suitable pharmaceutical carriers are described in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences by E. W. Martin.

A coding sequence or a sequence encoding an expression product such as a RNA polypeptide protein or enzyme is a nucleotide sequence that when expressed results in the production of that RNA polypeptide protein or enzyme i.e. the nucleotide sequence encodes an amino acid sequence for that polypeptide protein or enzyme. A coding sequence for a protein may include a start codon usually but not always ATG and a stop codon.

The dosage of the therapeutic formulation will vary widely depending upon the nature of the disease the patient s medical history the frequency of administration the manner of administration the clearance of the agent from the host and the like. The initial dose may be larger followed by smaller maintenance doses. The dose may be administered as infrequently as weekly or biweekly or fractionated into smaller doses and administered daily semi weekly etc. to maintain an effective dosage level. In some cases oral administration will require a higher dose than if administered intravenously.

By expression construct is meant a nucleic acid sequence comprising a target nucleic acid sequence or sequences whose expression is desired operatively associated with expression control sequence elements which provide for the proper transcription and translation of the target nucleic acid sequence s within the chosen host cells. Such sequence elements may include a promoter and a polyadenylation signal. The expression construct may further comprise vector sequences. By vector sequences is meant any of several nucleic acid sequences established in the art which have utility in the recombinant DNA technologies of the invention to facilitate the cloning and propagation of the expression constructs including but not limited to plasmids cosmids phage vectors viral vectors and yeast artificial chromosomes.

Expression constructs of the present invention may comprise vector sequences that facilitate the cloning and propagation of the expression constructs. A large number of vectors including plasmid and fungal vectors have been described for replication and or expression in a variety of eukaryotic and prokaryotic host cells. Standard vectors useful in the current invention are well known in the art and include but are not limited to plasmids cosmids phage vectors viral vectors and yeast artificial chromosomes. The vector sequences may contain a replication origin for propagation in the SV40 origin of replication an ampicillin neomycin or puromycin resistance gene for selection in host cells and or genes e.g. dihydrofolate reductase gene that amplify the dominant selectable marker plus the gene of interest.

The terms express and expression mean allowing or causing the information in a gene or DNA sequence to become manifest for example producing a protein by activating the cellular functions involved in transcription and translation of a corresponding gene or DNA sequence. A DNA sequence is expressed in or by a cell to form an expression product such as a protein. The expression product itself e.g. the resulting protein may also be said to be expressed by the cell. An expression product can be characterized as intracellular extracellular or secreted. The term intracellular means something that is inside a cell. The term extracellular means something that is outside a cell. A substance is secreted by a cell if it appears in significant measure outside the cell from somewhere on or inside the cell.

The term transfection means the introduction of a foreign nucleic acid into a cell. The term transformation means the introduction of a foreign i.e. extrinsic or extracellular gene DNA or RNA sequence to a cell so that the host cell will express the introduced gene or sequence to produce a desired substance typically a protein or enzyme coded by the introduced gene or sequence. The introduced gene or sequence may also be called a cloned or foreign gene or sequence may include regulatory or control sequences such as start stop promoter signal secretion or other sequences used by a cells genetic machinery. The gene or sequence may include nonfunctional sequences or sequences with no known function. A host cell that receives and expresses introduced DNA or RNA has been transformed and is a transformant or a clone. The DNA or RNA introduced to a host cell can come from any source including cells of the same genus or species as the host cell or cells of a different genus or species.

The term expression system means a host cell and compatible vector under suitable conditions e.g. for the expression of a protein coded for by foreign DNA carried by the vector and introduced to the host cell.

The term gene also called a structural gene means a DNA sequence that codes for or corresponds to a particular sequence of amino acids which comprise all or part of one or more proteins or enzymes and may or may not include regulatory DNA sequences such as promoter sequences which determine for example the conditions under which the gene is expressed. Some genes which are not structural genes may be transcribed from DNA to RNA but are not translated into an amino acid sequence. Other genes may function as regulators of structural genes or as regulators of DNA transcription.

A coding sequence is under the control of or operatively associated with expression control sequences in a cell when RNA polymerase transcribes the coding sequence into RNA particularly mRNA which is then trans RNA spliced if it contains introns and translated into the protein encoded by the coding sequence.

The term expression control sequence refers to a promoter and any enhancer or suppression elements that combine to regulate the transcription of a coding sequence. In a preferred embodiment the element is an origin of replication.

The term heterologous refers to a combination of elements not naturally occurring. For example heterologous DNA refers to DNA not naturally located in the cell or in a chromosomal site of the cell. Preferably the heterologous DNA includes a gene foreign to the cell. For example the present invention includes chimeric DNA molecules that comprise a DNA sequence and a heterologous DNA sequence which is not part of the DNA sequence. A heterologous expression regulatory element is such an element that is operatively associated with a different gene than the one it is operatively associated with in nature. In the context of the present invention a gene encoding a protein of interest is heterologous to the vector DNA in which it is inserted for cloning or expression and it is heterologous to a host cell containing such a vector in which it is expressed.

The term homologous as used in the art commonly refers to the relationship between nucleic acid molecules or proteins that possess a common evolutionary origin including nucleic acid molecules or proteins within superfamilies e.g. the immunoglobulin superfamily and nucleic acid molecules or proteins from different species Reeck et al. 1987 50 667 . Such nucleic acid molecules or proteins have sequence homology as reflected by their sequence similarity whether in terms of substantial percent similarity or the presence of specific residues or motifs at conserved positions.

The term host cell means any cell of any organism that is selected modified transformed grown or used or manipulated in any way for the production of a substance by the cell. For example a host cell may be one that is manipulated to express a particular gene a DNA or RNA sequence a protein or an enzyme. Host cells can further be used for screening or other assays that are described infra. Host cells may be cultured in vitro or one or more cells in a non human animal e.g. a transgenic animal or a transiently transfected animal . Suitable host cells include but are not limited to species and

An immune response refers to the development in the host of a cellular and or antibody mediated immune response to a composition or vaccine of interest. Such a response usually consists of the subject producing antibodies B cells helper T cells suppressor T cells and or cytotoxic T cells directed specifically to an antigen or antigens included in the composition or vaccine of interest.

As used herein the term isolated means that the referenced material is removed from the environment in which it is normally found. Thus an isolated biological material can be free of cellular components i.e. components of the cells in which the material is found or produced. Isolated nucleic acid molecules include for example a PCR product an isolated mRNA a cDNA or a restriction fragment. Isolated nucleic acid molecules also include for example sequences inserted into plasmids cosmids artificial chromosomes and the like. An isolated nucleic acid molecule is preferably excised from the genome in which it may be found and more preferably is no longer joined to non regulatory sequences non coding sequences or to other genes located upstream or downstream of the nucleic acid molecule when found within the genome. An isolated protein may be associated with other proteins or nucleic acids or both with which it associates in the cell or with cellular membranes if it is a membrane associated protein.

As used herein the terms mutant and mutation refer to any detectable change in genetic material e.g. DNA or any process mechanism or result of such a change. This includes gene mutations in which the structure e.g. DNA sequence of a gene is altered any gene or DNA arising from any mutation process and any expression product e.g. protein or enzyme expressed by a modified gene or DNA sequence. As used herein the term mutating refers to a process of creating a mutant or mutation.

The term nucleic acid hybridization refers to anti parallel hydrogen bonding between two single stranded nucleic acids in which A pairs with T or U if an RNA nucleic acid and C pairs with G. Nucleic acid molecules are hybridizable to each other when at least one strand of one nucleic acid molecule can form hydrogen bonds with the complementary bases of another nucleic acid molecule under defined stringency conditions. Stringency of hybridization is determined e.g. by i the temperature at which hybridization and or washing is performed and ii the ionic strength and iii concentration of denaturants such as formamide of the hybridization and washing solutions as well as other parameters. Hybridization requires that the two strands contain substantially complementary sequences. Depending on the stringency of hybridization however some degree of mismatches may be tolerated. Under low stringency conditions a greater percentage of mismatches are tolerable i.e. will not prevent formation of an anti parallel hybrid . See Alberts et al. 3ed. New York and London Garland Publ. 1994 Ch. 7.

Typically hybridization of two strands at high stringency requires that the sequences exhibit a high degree of complementarity over an extended portion of their length. Examples of high stringency conditions include hybridization to filter bound DNA in 0.5 M NaHPO 7 SDS 1 mM EDTA at 65 C. followed by washing in 0.1 SSC 0.1 SDS at 68 C. where 1 SSC is 0.15M NaCl 0.15M Na citrate or for oligonucleotide molecules washing in 6 SSC 0.5 sodium pyrophosphate at about 37 C. for 14 nucleotide long oligos at about 48 C. for about 17 nucleotide long oligos at about 55 C. for 20 nucleotide long oligos and at about 60 C. for 23 nucleotide long oligos . Accordingly the term high stringency hybridization refers to a combination of solvent and temperature where two strands will pair to form a hybrid helix only if their nucleotide sequences are almost perfectly complementary see Alberts et al. 3ed. New York and London Garland Publ. 1994 Ch. 7 .

Conditions of intermediate or moderate stringency such as for example an aqueous solution of 2 SSC at 65 C. alternatively for example hybridization to filter bound DNA in 0.5 M NaHPO 7 SDS 1 mM EDTA at 65 C. and washing in 0.2 SSC 0.1 SDS at 42 C. and low stringency such as for example an aqueous solution of 2 SSC at 55 C. require correspondingly less overall complementarity for hybridization to occur between two sequences. Specific temperature and salt conditions for any given stringency hybridization reaction depend on the concentration of the target DNA and length and base composition of the probe and are normally determined empirically in preliminary experiments which are routine see Southern 1975 98 503 Sambrook et al. 2ed. vol. 2 ch. 9.50 CSH Laboratory Press 1989 Ausubel et al. eds. 1989 Vol. I Green Publishing Associates Inc. and John Wiley Sons Inc. New York at p. 2.10.3 .

As used herein the term standard hybridization conditions refers to hybridization conditions that allow hybridization of sequences having at least 75 sequence identity. According to a specific embodiment hybridization conditions of higher stringency may be used to allow hybridization of only sequences having at least 80 sequence identity at least 90 sequence identity at least 95 sequence identity or at least 99 sequence identity.

Nucleic acid molecules that hybridize to any desired nucleic acids of the present invention may be of any length. In one embodiment such nucleic acid molecules are at least 10 at least 15 at least 20 at least 30 at least 40 at least 50 and at least 70 nucleotides in length. In another embodiment nucleic acid molecules that hybridize are of about the same length as the particular desired nucleic acid.

A nucleic acid molecule refers to the phosphate ester polymeric form of ribonucleosides adenosine guanosine uridine or cytidine RNA molecules or deoxyribonucleosides deoxyadenosine deoxyguanosine deoxythymidine or deoxycytidine DNA molecules or any phosphoester analogs thereof such as phosphorothioates and thioesters in either single stranded form or a double stranded helix. Double stranded DNA DNA DNA RNA and RNA RNA helices are possible. The term nucleic acid molecule and in particular DNA or RNA molecule refers only to the primary and secondary structure of the molecule and does not limit it to any particular tertiary forms. Thus this term includes double stranded DNA found inter alia in linear e.g. restriction fragments or circular DNA molecules plasmids and chromosomes. In discussing the structure of particular double stranded DNA molecules sequences may be described herein according to the normal convention of giving only the sequence in the 5 to 3 direction along the non transcribed strand of DNA i.e. the strand having a sequence homologous to the mRNA . A recombinant DNA molecule is a DNA molecule that has undergone a molecular biological manipulation.

As used herein the term orthologs refers to genes in different species that apparently evolved from a common ancestral gene by speciation. Normally orthologs retain the same function through the course of evolution. Identification of orthologs can provide reliable prediction of gene function in newly sequenced genomes. Sequence comparison algorithms that can be used to identify orthologs include without limitation BLAST FASTA DNA Strider and the GCG pileup program. Orthologs often have high sequence similarity. The present invention encompasses all orthologs of the desired protein.

By operatively associated with is meant that a target nucleic acid sequence and one or more expression control sequences e.g. promoters are physically linked so as to permit expression of the polypeptide encoded by the target nucleic acid sequence within a host cell.

The terms percent sequence similarity percent sequence identity and the like generally refer to the degree of identity or correspondence between different nucleotide sequences of nucleic acid molecules or amino acid sequences of proteins that may or may not share a common evolutionary origin see Reeck et al. supra . Sequence identity can be determined using any of a number of publicly available sequence comparison algorithms such as BLAST FASTA DNA Strider GCG Genetics Computer Group Program Manual for the GCG Package Version 7 Madison Wis. etc.

To determine the percent identity between two amino acid sequences or two nucleic acid molecules the sequences are aligned for optimal comparison purposes. The percent identity between the two sequences is a function of the number of identical positions shared by the sequences i.e. percent identity number of identical positions total number of positions e.g. overlapping positions 100 . In one embodiment the two sequences are or are about of the same length. The percent identity between two sequences can be determined using techniques similar to those described below with or without allowing gaps. In calculating percent sequence identity typically exact matches are counted.

The determination of percent identity between two sequences can be accomplished using a mathematical algorithm. A non limiting example of a mathematical algorithm utilized for the comparison of two sequences is the algorithm of Karlin and Altschul 1990 87 2264 modified as in Karlin and Altschul 1993 90 5873 5877. Such an algorithm is incorporated into the NBLAST and XBLAST programs of Altschul et al. 1990 215 403. BLAST nucleotide searches can be performed with the NBLAST program score 100 wordlength 12 to obtain nucleotide sequences homologous to sequences of the invention. BLAST protein searches can be performed with the XBLAST program score 50 wordlength 3 to obtain amino acid sequences homologous to protein sequences of the invention. To obtain gapped alignments for comparison purposes Gapped BLAST can be utilized as described in Altschul et al. 1997 25 3389. Alternatively PSI Blast can be used to perform an iterated search that detects distant relationship between molecules. See Altschul et al. 1997 supra. When utilizing BLAST Gapped BLAST and PSI Blast programs the default parameters of the respective programs e.g. XBLAST and NBLAST can be used. See ncbi.nlm.nih.gov BLAST on the WorldWideWeb. Another non limiting example of a mathematical algorithm utilized for the comparison of sequences is the algorithm of Myers and Miller 1988 4 11 17. Such an algorithm is incorporated into the ALIGN program version 2.0 which is part of the GCG sequence alignment software package. When utilizing the ALIGN program for comparing amino acid sequences a PAM120 weight residue table a gap length penalty of 12 and a gap penalty of 4 can be used.

In a preferred embodiment the percent identity between two amino acid sequences is determined using the algorithm of Needleman and Wunsch 1970 48 444 453 which has been incorporated into the GAP program in the GCG software package Accelrys Burlington Mass. available at accelrys.com on the WorldWideWeb using either a Blossum 62 matrix or a PAM250 matrix a gap weight of 16 14 12 10 8 6 or 4 and a length weight of 1 2 3 4 5 or 6. In yet another preferred embodiment the percent identity between two nucleotide sequences is determined using the GAP program in the GCG software package using a NWSgapdna.CMP matrix a gap weight of 40 50 60 70 or 80 and a length weight of 1 2 3 4 5 or 6. A particularly preferred set of parameters and the one that can be used if the practitioner is uncertain about what parameters should be applied to determine if a molecule is a sequence identity or homology limitation of the invention is using a Blossum 62 scoring matrix with a gap open penalty of 12 a gap extend penalty of 4 and a frameshift gap penalty of 5.

In addition to the cDNA sequences encoding various desired proteins the present invention further provides polynucleotide molecules comprising nucleotide sequences having certain percentage sequence identities to any of the aforementioned sequences. Such sequences preferably hybridize under conditions of moderate or high stringency as described above and may include species orthologs.

When formulated in a pharmaceutical composition a therapeutic compound such as an inhibitor of Cdc14B and or Cdh1 can be admixed with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. As used herein the phrase pharmaceutically acceptable refers to molecular entities and compositions that are generally believed to be physiologically tolerable and do not typically produce an allergic or similar untoward reaction such as gastric upset dizziness and the like when administered to a human.

The term pharmaceutically acceptable derivative as used herein means any pharmaceutically acceptable salt solvate or prodrug e.g. ester of a compound of the invention which upon administration to the recipient is capable of providing directly or indirectly a compound of the invention or an active metabolite or residue thereof. Such derivatives are recognizable to those skilled in the art without undue experimentation. Nevertheless reference is made to the teaching of Burger s Medicinal Chemistry and Drug Discovery 5Edition Vol 1 Principles and Practice which is incorporated herein by reference to the extent of teaching such derivatives. Preferred pharmaceutically acceptable derivatives are salts solvates esters carbamates and phosphate esters. Particularly preferred pharmaceutically acceptable derivatives are salts solvates and esters. Most preferred pharmaceutically acceptable derivatives are salts and esters.

While it is possible to use a composition provided by the present invention for therapy as is it may be preferable to administer it in a pharmaceutical formulation e.g. in admixture with a suitable pharmaceutical excipient diluent or carrier selected with regard to the intended route of administration and standard pharmaceutical practice. Accordingly in one aspect the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition or formulation comprising at least one active composition or a pharmaceutically acceptable derivative thereof in association with a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient diluent and or carrier. The excipient diluent and or carrier must be acceptable in the sense of being compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and not deleterious to the recipient thereof.

The compositions of the invention can be formulated for administration in any convenient way for use in human or veterinary medicine. The invention therefore includes within its scope pharmaceutical compositions comprising a product of the present invention that is adapted for use in human or veterinary medicine including treating food allergies and related immune disorders.

In a preferred embodiment the pharmaceutical composition is conveniently administered as an oral formulation. Oral dosage forms are well known in the art and include tablets caplets gelcaps capsules and medical foods. Tablets for example can be made by well known compression techniques using wet dry or fluidized bed granulation methods.

Pharmaceutically acceptable excipients assist or make possible the formation of a dosage form for a bioactive material and include diluents binding agents lubricants glidants disintegrants coloring agents and other ingredients. Preservatives stabilizers dyes and even flavoring agents may be provided in the pharmaceutical composition. Examples of preservatives include sodium benzoate ascorbic acid and esters of p hydroxybenzoic acid. Antioxidants and suspending agents may be also used. An excipient is pharmaceutically acceptable if in addition to performing its desired function it is non toxic well tolerated upon ingestion and does not interfere with absorption of bioactive materials.

Acceptable excipients diluents and carriers for therapeutic use are well known in the pharmaceutical art and are described for example in Remington The Science and Practice of Pharmacy. Lippincott Williams Wilkins A. R. Gennaro edit. 2005 . The choice of pharmaceutical excipient diluent and carrier can be selected with regard to the intended route of administration and standard pharmaceutical practice.

The term therapeutically effective amount is used herein to mean an amount or dose sufficient to modulate e.g. increase or decrease as appropriate the expression or activity level of a desired protein e.g. by about 10 percent preferably by about 50 percent and more preferably by about 80 90 percent. In certain embodiments the amount of Plk1 is increased as a result of decreasing the amount of Cdc14B and or Cdh1. Preferably a therapeutically effective amount is sufficient to cause an improvement in a clinically significant condition in the host following a therapeutic regimen involving one or more inhibitors of Cdc14B and or Cdh1. The concentration or amount of the active ingredient depends on the desired dosage and administration regimen as discussed below. Suitable dosages may range from about 0.01 mg kg to about 100 mg kg of body weight per day week or month. The pharmaceutical compositions may also include other biologically active compounds.

According to the invention a therapeutically effective amount of a Cdc14B and or Cdh1 inhibitor can be formulated in a pharmaceutical composition of the invention to be introduced parenterally transmucosally e.g. orally nasally or rectally or transdermally. Preferably administration is parenteral e.g. via intravenous injection and also including but is not limited to intra arteriole intramuscular intradermal subcutaneous intraperitoneal intraventricular and intracranial administration. Optionally the Cdc14B and or Cdh1 inhibitor can be formulated together with an DNA damaging agent such as an alkylating agent.

In another embodiment the active ingredient can be delivered in a vesicle in particular a liposome see Langer Science 1990 249 1527 1533 Treat et al. in Liposomes in the Therapy of Infectious Disease and Cancer Lopez Berestein and Fidler eds. Liss New York pp. 353 365 1989 Lopez Berestein ibid. pp. 317 327 see generally ibid. .

In yet another embodiment the therapeutic compound s can be delivered in a controlled release system. For example a polypeptide may be administered using intravenous infusion with a continuous pump in a polymer matrix such as poly lactic glutamic acid PLGA a pellet containing a mixture of cholesterol and the active ingredient Silastic Dow Corning Midland Mich. see U.S. Pat. No. 5 554 601 implanted subcutaneously an implantable osmotic pump a transdermal patch liposomes or other modes of administration.

The effective amounts of compounds of the present invention include doses that partially or completely achieve the desired therapeutic prophylactic and or biological effect. The actual amount effective for a particular application depends on the condition being treated and the route of administration. The effective amount for use in humans can be determined from animal models. For example a dose for humans can be formulated to achieve circulating and or gastrointestinal concentrations that have been found to be effective in animals.

The invention provides a kit for screening for an agent useful for inhibiting Cdc14B and or Cdh1 activity comprising a Plk1 protein at least one of Cdc14B or Cdh1 protein a means for detecting binding between the Plk1 and Cdc148 and or Cdh1 protein optionally packaged in association with instructions teaching one or more of the methods described herein. In certain embodiments the invention provides a kit for screening for an agent useful for increasing the amount of Plk1 protein comprising a Plk1 protein at least one Cdc14B or Cdh1 protein a means for detecting binding between the Plk1 and the Cdc14B and or Cdh1 protein optionally packaged in association with instructions teaching one or more of the methods described herein.

A polynucleotide or nucleotide sequence is a series of nucleotide bases also called nucleotides in a nucleic acid such as DNA and RNA and means any chain of two or more nucleotides. A nucleotide sequence typically carries genetic information including the information used by cellular machinery to make proteins and enzymes. These terms include double or single stranded genomic and cDNA RNA any synthetic and genetically manipulated polynucleotide and both sense and anti sense polynucleotide although only sense stands are being represented herein . This includes single and double stranded molecules i.e. DNA DNA DNA RNA and RNA RNA hybrids as well as protein nucleic acids PNA formed by conjugating bases to an amino acid backbone. This also includes nucleic acids containing modified bases for example thio uracil thio guanine and fluoro uracil.

The nucleic acids herein may be flanked by natural regulatory expression control sequences or may be associated with heterologous sequences including promoters internal ribosome entry sites IRES and other ribosome binding site sequences enhancers response elements suppressors signal sequences polyadenylation sequences introns 5 and 3 non coding regions and the like. The nucleic acids may also be modified by many means known in the art. Non limiting examples of such modifications include methylation caps substitution of one or more of the naturally occurring nucleotides with an analog and internucleotide modifications such as for example those with uncharged linkages e.g. methyl phosphonates phosphotriesters phosphoroamidates carbamates etc. and with charged linkages e.g. phosphorothioates phosphorodithioates etc. . Polynucleotides may contain one or more additional covalently linked moieties such as for example proteins e.g. nucleases toxins antibodies signal peptides poly L lysine etc. intercalators e.g. acridine psoralen etc. chelators e.g. metals radioactive metals iron oxidative metals etc. and alkylators. The polynucleotides may be derivatized by formation of a methyl or ethyl phosphotriester or an alkyl phosphoramidate linkage. Furthermore the polynucleotides herein may also be modified with a label capable of providing a detectable signal either directly or indirectly. Exemplary labels include radioisotopes fluorescent molecules biotin and the like.

The promoter sequences may be endogenous or heterologous to the host cell to be modified and may provide ubiquitous i.e. expression occurs in the absence of an apparent external stimulus or inducible i.e. expression only occurs in presence of particular stimuli expression. Promoters which may be used to control gene expression include but are not limited to cytomegalovirus CMV promoter U.S. Pat. No. 5 385 839 and No. 5 168 062 the SV40 early promoter region Benoist and Chambon Nature 1981 290 304 310 the promoter contained in the 3 long terminal repeat of Rous sarcoma virus Yamamoto et al. Cell 1980 22 787 797 the herpes thymidine kinase promoter Wagner et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 1981 78 1441 1445 the regulatory sequences of the metallothionein gene Brinster et al. Nature 1982 296 39 42 prokaryotic promoters such as the alkaline phosphatase promoter the trp lac promoter the bacteriophage lambda Ppromoter the T7 promoter the beta lactamase promoter Villa Komaroff et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 1978 75 3727 3731 or the tac promoter DeBoer et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 1983 80 21 25 see also Useful proteins from recombinant bacteria in Scientific American 1980 242 74 94 promoter elements from yeast or other fungi such as the Gal4 promoter the ADC alcohol dehydrogenase promoter and the PGK phosphoglycerol kinase promoter.

The term small molecule refers to a compound that has a molecular weight of less than about 2000 Daltons less than about 1000 Daltons or less than about 500 Daltons. Small molecules without limitation may be for example nucleic acids peptides polypeptides peptide nucleic acids peptidomimetics carbohydrates lipids or other organic carbon containing or inorganic molecules and may be synthetic or naturally occurring or optionally derivatized. Such small molecules may be a therapeutically deliverable substance or may be further derivatized to facilitate delivery or targeting.

In a specific embodiment two DNA sequences are substantially homologous or substantially similar when at least about 80 and most preferably at least about 90 or 95 of the nucleotides match over the defined length of the DNA sequences as determined by sequence comparison algorithms such as BLAST FASTA DNA Strider etc. An example of such a sequence is an allelic or species variant of the specific genes of the invention. Sequences that are substantially homologous can be identified by comparing the sequences using standard software available in sequence data banks or in a Southern hybridization experiment under for example stringent conditions as defined for that particular system.

Similarly in a particular embodiment two amino acid sequences are substantially homologous or substantially similar when greater than 80 of the amino acids are identical or greater than about 90 are similar. Preferably the amino acids are functionally identical. Preferably the similar or homologous sequences are identified by alignment using for example the GCG Genetics Computer Group Program Manual for the GCG Package Version 10 Madison Wis. pileup program or any of the programs described above BLAST FASTA etc. .

By substantially identical is meant a polypeptide or nucleic acid molecule exhibiting at least 80 more preferably at least 90 and most preferably at least 95 identity in comparison to a reference amino acid or nucleic acid sequence. For polypeptides the length of sequence comparison will generally be at least 20 amino acids preferably at least 30 amino acids more preferably at least 40 amino acids and most preferably at least 50 amino acids. For nucleic acid molecules the length of sequence comparison will generally be at least 60 nucleotides preferably at least 90 nucleotides and more preferably at least 120 nucleotides.

The degree of sequence identity between any two nucleic acid molecules or two polypeptides may be determined by sequence comparison and alignment algorithms known in the art including but not limited to BLAST FASTA DNA Strider and the GCG Package Madison Wis. pileup program see for example Gribskov and Devereux Sequence Stockton Press 1991 and references cited therein . The percent similarity between two nucleotide sequences may be determined for example using the Smith Waterman algorithm as implemented in the BESTFIT software program using default parameters.

A therapeutically effective amount means the amount of a compound that when administered to a mammal for treating a state disorder or condition is sufficient to effect such treatment. The therapeutically effective amount will vary depending on the compound the disease and its severity and the age weight physical condition and responsiveness of the mammal to be treated.

The compositions of the invention may include a therapeutically effective amount or a prophylactically effective amount of an antibody or antigen binding portion of the desired inhibitor. A therapeutically effective amount refers to an amount effective at dosages and for periods of time necessary to achieve the desired therapeutic result. A therapeutically effective amount of the antibody or antibody portion may vary according to factors such as the disease state age sex and weight of the individual and the ability of the antibody or antibody portion to elicit a desired response in the individual. A therapeutically effective amount is also one in which any toxic or detrimental effects of the antibody or antibody portion are outweighed by the therapeutically beneficial effects. A prophylactically effective amount refers to an amount effective at dosages and for periods of time necessary to achieve the desired prophylactic result. Typically since a prophylactic dose is used in subjects prior to or at an earlier stage of disease the prophylactically effective amount will be less than the therapeutically effective amount.

By transfection is meant the process of introducing one or more of the expression constructs of the invention into a host cell by any of the methods well established in the art including but not limited to microinjection electroporation liposome mediated transfection calcium phosphate mediated transfection or virus mediated transfection.

The benefit to a subject to be treated is either statistically significant or at least perceptible to the patient or to the physician.

The term variant may also be used to indicate a modified or altered gene DNA sequence enzyme cell etc. i.e. any kind of mutant.

The terms vector cloning vector and expression vector refer to the vehicle by which DNA can be introduced into a host cell resulting in expression of the introduced sequence. In one embodiment vectors comprise a promoter and one or more control elements e.g. enhancer elements that are heterologous to the introduced DNA but are recognized and used by the host cell. In another embodiment the sequence that is introduced into the vector retains its natural promoter that may be recognized and expressed by the host cell Bormann et al. J. Bacteriol. 1996 178 1216 1218 .

Vectors typically comprise the DNA of a transmissible agent into which foreign DNA is inserted. A common way to insert one segment of DNA into another segment of DNA involves the use of enzymes called restriction enzymes that cleave DNA at specific sites specific groups of nucleotides called restriction sites. A cassette refers to a DNA coding sequence or segment of DNA that codes for an expression product that can be inserted into a vector at defined restriction sites. The cassette restriction sites are designed to ensure insertion of the cassette in the proper reading frame. Generally foreign DNA is inserted at one or more restriction sites of the vector DNA and then is carried by the vector into a host cell along with the transmissible vector DNA. A segment or sequence of DNA having inserted or added DNA such as an expression vector can also be called a DNA construct . A common type of vector is a plasmid which generally is a self contained molecule of double stranded DNA usually of bacterial origin that can readily accept additional foreign DNA and which can readily be introduced into a suitable host cell. A plasmid vector often contains coding DNA and promoter DNA and has one or more restriction sites suitable for inserting foreign DNA. Coding DNA is a DNA sequence that encodes a particular amino acid sequence for a particular protein or enzyme. Promoter DNA is a DNA sequence which initiates regulates or otherwise mediates or controls the expression of the coding DNA. Promoter DNA and coding DNA may be from the same gene or from different genes and may be from the same or different organisms. Recombinant cloning vectors will often include one or more replication systems for cloning or expression one or more markers for selection in the host e.g. antibiotic resistance and one or more expression cassettes. Vector constructs may be produced using conventional molecular biology and recombinant DNA techniques within the skill of the art. Such techniques are explained fully in the literature. See e.g. Sambrook Fritsch Maniatis Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual Second Edition 1989 Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. herein Sambrook et al. 1989 DNA Cloning A Practical Approach Volumes I and II D. N. Glover ed. 1985 F. M. Ausubel et al. eds. Current Protocols in Molecular Biology John Wiley Sons Inc. 1994 .

The abbreviations in the specification correspond to units of measure techniques properties or compounds as follows min means minutes h means hour s 4 means microliter s mL means milliliter s mM means millimolar M means molar mmole means millimole s kb means kilobase bp means base pair s nt means nucleotide and IU means International Units. Polymerase chain reaction is abbreviated PCR Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction is abbreviated RT PCR Estrogen receptor is abbreviated ER DNA binding domain is abbreviated DBD Untranslated region is abbreviated UTR Sodium dodecyl sulfate is abbreviated SDS and High Pressure Liquid Chromatography is abbreviated HPLC.

For the screening and evaluation of compounds for their ability to modulate the Plk1 interaction with Cdc14B and or Cdh1 or other Plk1 substrates both in vitro including reconstituted systems and in vivo systems including cellular systems and transgenic animals systems can be used. Regardless of the screening or testing system of choice various expression methods can be employed to provide the protein components or cellular transgenic animals to be used in the method.

A wide variety of host expression vector combinations i.e. expression systems may be employed in expressing DNA sequences for Plk1 Cdc14B or fragments or mutants thereof Cdh1 or fragments or mutants thereof Cdc25A or fragments or mutants thereof. Additionally DNA sequences expressing any of Skp1 Cul1 catenin Emi1 I B I B I B USP48 TRCP1 2 Cdc 20 Cdc14B or Fbxw 4 7 and other components are included as desirable host expression vector combinations. These may be co expressed from the same vector expressed from different vectors or one may be expressed while the other one is added externally to the screening or evaluation system. Useful expression vectors for example may consist of segments of chromosomal non chromosomal and synthetic DNA sequences. Suitable vectors include derivatives of SV40 and known bacterial plasmids e.g. plasmids col E1 pCR1 pBR322 pMal C2 pET pGEX Smith et al. Gene 1988 67 31 40 pMB9 and their derivatives plasmids such as RP4 phage DNAS e.g. the numerous derivatives of phage 1 e.g. NM989 and other phage DNA e.g. M13 and filamentous single stranded phage DNA yeast plasmids such as the 2m plasmid or derivatives thereof vectors useful in eukaryotic cells such as vectors useful in insect or mammalian cells vectors derived from combinations of plasmids and phage DNAs such as plasmids that have been modified to employ phage DNA or other expression control sequences and the like. In a preferred embodiment various tumor cells lines can be used in expression systems of the invention.

Yeast expression systems can also be used according to the invention to express any protein of interest. For example the non fusion pYES2 vector XbaI SphI ShoI NotI GstXI EcoRI BstXI BamH1 SacI Kpn1 and HindIII cloning site Invitrogen or the fusion pYESHisA B C XbaI SphI ShoI NotI BstXI EcoRI BamH1 SacI KpnI and HindIII cloning site N terminal peptide purified with ProBond resin and cleaved with enterokinase Invitrogen for example can be employed according to the invention.

Expression of the protein or polypeptide may be controlled by any promoter enhancer element known in the art but these regulatory elements must be functional in the host selected for expression. Promoters which may be used to control gene expression include but are not limited to cytomegalovirus CMV promoter U.S. Pat. No. 5 385 839 and No. 5 168 062 the SV40 early promoter region Benoist and Chambon Nature 1981 290 304 310 the promoter contained in the 3 long terminal repeat of Rous sarcoma virus Yamamoto et al. Cell 1980 22 787 797 the herpes thymidine kinase promoter Wagner et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 1981 78 1441 1445 the regulatory sequences of the metallothionein gene Brinster et al. Nature 1982 296 39 42 prokaryotic expression vectors such as the lactamase promoter Villa Komaroff et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 1978 75 3727 3731 or the tac promoter DeBoer et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 1983 80 21 25 see also Useful proteins from recombinant bacteria in Scientific American 1980 242 74 94 promoter elements from yeast or other fungi such as the Gal 4 promoter the ADC alcohol dehydrogenase promoter PGK phosphoglycerol kinase promoter alkaline phosphatase promoter and transcriptional control regions that exhibit hematopoietic tissue specificity in particular beta globin gene control region which is active in myeloid cells Mogram et al. Nature 1985 315 338 340 Kollias et al. Cell 1986 46 89 94 hematopoietic stem cell differentiation factor promoters erythropoietin receptor promoter Maouche et al. Blood 1991 15 2557 etc.

Preferred vectors particularly for cellular assays in vitro and in vivo are viral vectors such as lentiviruses retroviruses herpes viruses adenoviruses adeno associated viruses vaccinia virus baculovirus and other recombinant viruses with desirable cellular tropism. Thus a gene encoding a functional or mutant protein or polypeptide domain fragment thereof can be introduced in vivo ex vivo or in vitro using a viral vector or through direct introduction of DNA. Expression in targeted tissues can be effected by targeting the transgenic vector to specific cells such as with a viral vector or a receptor ligand or by using a tissue specific promoter or both. Targeted gene delivery is described in International Patent Publication WO 95 28494 published October 1995.

Viral vectors commonly used for in vivo or ex vivo targeting and therapy procedures are DNA based vectors and retroviral vectors. Methods for constructing and using viral vectors are known in the art see e.g. Miller and Rosman BioTechniques 1992 7 980 990 . Preferably the viral vectors are replication defective that is they are unable to replicate autonomously in the target cell. Preferably the replication defective virus is a minimal virus i.e. it retains only the sequences of its genome which are necessary for encapsidating the genome to produce viral particles.

DNA viral vectors include an attenuated or defective DNA virus such as but not limited to herpes simplex virus HSV papillomavirus Epstein Barr virus EBV adenovirus adeno associated virus AAV and the like. Defective viruses which entirely or almost entirely lack viral genes are preferred. Defective virus is not infective after introduction into a cell. Use of defective viral vectors allows for administration to cells in a specific localized area without concern that the vector can infect other cells. Thus a specific tissue can be specifically targeted. Examples of particular vectors include but are not limited to a defective herpes virus 1 HSV1 vector Kaplitt et al. Molec. Cell. Neurosci. 1991 2 320 330 defective herpes virus vector lacking a glyco protein L gene Patent Publication RD 371005 A or other defective herpes virus vectors International Patent Publication No. WO 94 21807 published Sep. 29 1994 International Patent Publication No. WO 92 05263 published Apr. 2 1994 an attenuated adenovirus vector such as the vector described by Stratford Perricaudet et al. J. Clin. Invest. 1992 90 626 630 see also La Salle et al. Science 1993 259 988 990 and a defective adeno associated virus vector Samulski et al. J. Virol. 1987 61 3096 3101 Samulski et al. J. Virol. 1989 63 3822 3828 Lebkowski et al. Mol. Cell. Biol. 1988 8 3988 3996 .

Various companies produce viral vectors commercially including but by no means limited to Avigen Inc. Alameda Calif. AAV vectors Cell Genesys Foster City Calif. retroviral adenoviral AAV vectors and lentiviral vectors Clontech retroviral and baculoviral vectors Genovo Inc. Sharon Hill Pa. adenoviral and AAV vectors Genvec adenoviral vectors IntroGene Leiden Netherlands adenoviral vectors Molecular Medicine retroviral adenoviral AAV and herpes viral vectors Norgen adenoviral vectors Oxford BioMedica Oxford United Kingdom lentiviral vectors and Transgene Strasbourg France adenoviral vaccinia retroviral and lentiviral vectors .

Preferably for in vivo administration an appropriate immunosuppressive treatment is employed in conjunction with the viral vector e.g. adenovirus vector to avoid immuno deactivation of the viral vector and transfected cells. For example immunosuppressive cytokines such as interleukin 12 IL 12 interferon IFN or anti CD4 antibody can be administered to block humoral or cellular immune responses to the viral vectors see e.g. Wilson Nature Medicine 1995 . In that regard it is advantageous to employ a viral vector that is engineered to express a minimal number of antigens.

It is also possible to introduce the vector in vivo as a naked DNA plasmid. Naked DNA vectors for gene therapy can be introduced into the desired host cells by methods known in the art e.g. electroporation microinjection cell fusion DEAE dextran calcium phosphate precipitation use of a gene gun or use of a DNA vector transporter see e.g. Wu et al. J. Biol. Chem. 1992 267 963 967 Wu and Wu J. Biol. Chem. 1988 263 14621 14624 Hartmut et al. Canadian Patent Application No. 2 012 311 filed Mar. 15 1990 Williams et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 1991 88 2726 2730 . Receptor mediated DNA delivery approaches can also be used Curiel et al. Hum. Gene Ther. 1992 3 147 154 Wu and Wu J. Biol. Chem. 1987 262 4429 4432 . U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 580 859 and 5 589 466 disclose delivery of exogenous DNA sequences free of transfection facilitating agents in a mammal. A relatively low voltage high efficiency in vivo DNA transfer technique termed electrotransfer has also been described Mir et al. C.P. Acad. Sci. 1998 321 893 WO 99 01157 WO 99 01158 WO 99 01175 .

Another option is to transcribe and translate cDNA sequences in vitro. Various commercial systems are available for such techniques including the TNT Quick Coupled Transcription Translation System with Transcend Promega Madison Wis. . For in vitro production of labeled or modified peptides or proteins labeled or chemically modified amino acid precursors such as e.g. S methionine or phosphoserine can be added to the translation system.

Transgenic mammals can be prepared for evaluating the interaction of human Plk1 with Cdc14B and or Cdh1 or any other Plk1 substrates. Such mammals provide excellent models for screening or testing drug candidates i.e. inhibitors of Cdc14B and or Cdh1. Thus human BimEL knock in mammals can be prepared for evaluating the molecular biology of this system in greater detail than is possible with human subjects. In one embodiment the animal can be double transgenic in that both human human Cdc14B and Cdh1 are expressed in the transgenic animal. It is also possible to evaluate compounds or diseases in knock out animals e.g. to identify a compound that can compensate for a defect in Cdc14B and or Cdh1. Both technologies permit manipulation of single units of genetic information in their natural position in a cell genome and to examine the results of that manipulation in the background of a terminally differentiated organism. Transgenic mammals can be prepared by any method including but not limited to modification of embryonic stem ES cells and heteronuclear injection into blast cells.

A knock in mammal is a mammal in which an endogenous gene is substituted with a heterologous gene Roemer et al. New Biol. 1991 3 331 . Preferably the heterologous gene is knocked in to a locus of interest either the subject of evaluation in which case the gene may be a reporter gene see Elefanty et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 1998 95 11897 of expression or function of a homologous gene thereby linking the heterologous gene expression to transcription from the appropriate promoter. This can be achieved by homologous recombination transposon Westphal and Leder Curr. Biol. 1997 7 530 using mutant recombination sites Araki et al. Nucleic Acids Res 1997 25 868 or PCR Zhang and Henderson Biotechniques 1998 25 784 .

A knock out mammal is a mammal e.g. mouse that contains within its genome a specific gene that has been inactivated by the method of gene targeting see e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 777 195 and 5 616 491 . A knockout mammal includes both a heterozygote knockout i.e. one defective allele and one wild type allele and a homozygous mutant. Preparation of a knockout mammal requires first introducing a nucleic acid construct that will be used to suppress expression of a particular gene into an undifferentiated cell type termed an embryonic stem cell. This cell is then injected into a mammalian embryo. A mammalian embryo with an integrated cell is then implanted into a foster mother for the duration of gestation. Zhou et al. Genes and Development 1995 9 2623 34 describes PPCA knock out mice. The term knockout refers to partial or complete suppression of the expression of at least a portion of a protein encoded by an endogenous DNA sequence in a cell. The term knockout construct refers to a nucleic acid sequence that is designed to decrease or suppress expression of a protein encoded by endogenous DNA sequences in a cell. The nucleic acid sequence used as the knockout construct is typically comprised of 1 DNA from some portion of the gene exon sequence intron sequence and or promoter sequence to be suppressed and 2 a marker sequence used to detect the presence of the knockout construct in the cell. The knockout construct is inserted into a cell and integrates with the genomic DNA of the cell in such a position so as to prevent or interrupt transcription of the native DNA sequence. Such insertion usually occurs by homologous recombination i.e. regions of the knockout construct that are homologous to endogenous DNA sequences hybridize to each other when the knockout construct is inserted into the cell and recombine so that the knockout construct is incorporated into the corresponding position of the endogenous DNA . The knockout construct nucleic acid sequence may comprise 1 a full or partial sequence of one or more exons and or introns of the gene to be suppressed 2 a full or partial promoter sequence of the gene to be suppressed or 3 combinations thereof. Typically the knockout construct is inserted into an embryonic stem cell ES cell and is integrated into the ES cell genomic DNA usually by the process of homologous recombination. This ES cell is then injected into and integrates with the developing embryo. Generally for homologous recombination the DNA will be at least about 1 kilobase kb in length and preferably 3 4 kb in length thereby providing sufficient complementary sequence for recombination when the knockout construct is introduced into the genomic DNA of the ES cell.

Double knock out mammals can be generated by repeating the procedures set forth herein for generating each knock in or knock out construct or by breeding to mammals each with a single gene knocked out to each other and screening for those with the double knockout genotype. Regulated knockout animals can be prepared using various systems such as the tet repressor system see U.S. Pat. No. 5 654 168 or the Cre Lox system see U.S. Pat. No. 4 959 317 and No. 5 801 030 . The phrases disruption of the gene and gene disruption refer to insertion of a nucleic acid sequence into one region of the native DNA sequence usually one or more exons and or the promoter region of a gene so as to decrease or prevent expression of that gene in the cell as compared to the wild type or naturally occurring sequence of the gene. By way of example a nucleic acid construct can be prepared containing a DNA sequence encoding an antibiotic resistance gene which is inserted into the DNA sequence that is complementary to the DNA sequence promoter and or coding region to be disrupted. When this nucleic acid construct is then transfected into a cell the construct will integrate into the genomic DNA. Thus many progeny of the cell will no longer express the gene at least in some cells or will express it at a decreased level as the DNA is now disrupted by the antibiotic resistance gene.

In another series of embodiments transgenic animals are created in which i a human Cdc14B and or Cdh1 is stably inserted into the genome of the transgenic animal and or ii the corresponding endogenous genes are inactivated and replaced with their human counterparts see e.g. Coffman Semin. Nephrol. 1997 17 404 Esther et al. Lab. Invest. 1996 74 953 Murakami et al. Blood Press. Suppl. 1996 2 36 . Such animals can be treated with candidate compounds and monitored for neuronal development neurodegeneration or efficacy of a candidate therapeutic compound.

As described in the Examples various antibodies useful for detecting Plk1 Cdc14B or Cdh1 or any of their substrates have been produced some of which are available commercially. Such antibodies may be used in immunoblotting or immunoprecipitation techniques to study binding of Cdc14B or Cdh1 to Plk1 or to another one of its substrates to detect ubiquitinated Cdc25A to inhibit interaction between Cdc14B and or Cdh1 with Plk1 or one of its other substrates or for other purposes in the screening and treatment methods described herein. Additional antibodies with different specificity or other particular properties may also be prepared. Antibodies useful for these purposes include but are not limited to polyclonal monoclonal chimeric single chain Fab fragments and Fab expression library.

Various procedures known in the art may be used for the production of polyclonal antibodies. For example various host animals can be immunized by injection with the antigenic polypeptide including but not limited to rabbits mice rats sheep goats etc. For preparation of monoclonal antibodies any technique that provides for the production of antibody molecules by continuous cell lines in culture may be used. These include but are not limited to the hybridoma technique originally developed by Kohler and Milstein Nature 1975 256 495 497 as well as the trioma technique the human B cell hybridoma technique Kozbor et al. Immunology Today 1983 4 72 Cote et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 1983 80 2026 2030 and the EBV hybridoma technique to produce human monoclonal antibodies Cole et al. in Monoclonal Antibodies and Cancer Therapy Alan R. Liss Inc. pp. 77 96 1985 . In an additional embodiment of the invention monoclonal antibodies can be produced in germ free animals International Patent Publication No. WO 89 12690 published 28 December 1989 .

According to the invention techniques described for the production of single chain antibodies U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 476 786 and 5 132 405 to Huston U.S. Pat. No. 4 946 778 can be adapted to produce polypeptide specific single chain antibodies. Indeed these genes can be delivered for expression in vivo to e.g. express an antibody inhibiting Plk1 interaction with Cdc14B and or Cdh1. An additional embodiment of the invention utilizes the techniques described for the construction of Fab expression libraries Huse et al. Science 1989 246 1275 1281 to allow rapid and easy identification of monoclonal Fab fragments with the desired specificity for a target polypeptide or its derivatives or analogs.

Antibody fragments which contain the idiotype of the antibody molecule can be generated by known techniques. For example such fragments include but are not limited to the F ab 2 fragment which can be produced by pepsin digestion of the antibody molecule the Fab fragments which can be generated by reducing the disulfide bridges of the F ab 2 fragment and the Fab fragments which can be generated by treating the antibody molecule with papain and a reducing agent.

In the production of antibodies screening for the desired antibody can be accomplished by techniques known in the art e.g. radioimmunoassay ELISA enzyme linked immunosorbant assay sandwich immunoassays immunoradiometric assays gel diffusion precipitin reactions immunodiffusion assays in situ immunoassays using colloidal gold enzyme or radioisotope labels for example western blots precipitation reactions agglutination assays e.g. gel agglutination assays hemagglutination assays complement fixation assays immunofluorescence assays protein A assays and immunoelectrophoresis assays etc. In one embodiment antibody binding is detected by detecting a label on the primary antibody. In another embodiment the primary antibody is detected by detecting binding of a secondary antibody or reagent to the primary antibody. In a further embodiment the secondary antibody is labeled. Many means are known in the art for detecting binding in an immunoassay and are within the scope of the present invention.

A test substance or test compound is a chemically defined compound or mixture of compounds as in the case of a natural extract or tissue culture supernatant whose ability to modulate Plk1 activity or amount or that modulates the activity or the amount of Cdc14B and or Cdh1 the a may be defined by various assays. A test substance is also referred to as a candidate drug or candidate compound in the present description.

Test substances may be screened from large libraries of synthetic or natural compounds. Numerous means are currently used for random and directed synthesis of saccharide peptide and nucleic acid based compounds. Synthetic compound libraries are commercially available from Maybridge Chemical Co. Trevillet Cornwall UK Comgenex Princeton N.J. Brandon Associates Merrimack N.H. and Microsource New Milford Conn. . A rare chemical library is available from Aldrich Milwaukee Wis. . Alternatively libraries of natural compounds in the form of bacterial fungal plant and animal extracts are available from e.g. Pan Laboratories Bothell Wash. or MycoSearch NC or are readily producible. Additionally natural and synthetically produced libraries and compounds are readily modified through conventional chemical physical and biochemical means Blondelle et al. TIBTech 1996 14 60 .

A modulatory effect may be determined by an in vitro method using a recombinant reporter gene promoter activity system including one or more of Plk1 Cdc14B and Cdh1. Reporter genes for use in the invention encode detectable proteins and include but are by no means limited to chloramphenicol transferase CAT galactosidase gal luciferase green fluorescent protein GFP and derivatives thereof yellow fluorescent protein and derivatives thereof alkaline phosphatase other enzymes that can be adapted to produce a detectable product and other gene products that can be detected e.g. immunologically by immunoassay .

A screen according to the invention involves detecting expression of the reporter gene by the host cell when contacted with a test substance. If there is no change in expression of the reporter gene the test substance is not an effective modulator. If reporter gene expression is modified the test substance has modulated e.g. increased Plk1 mediated gene expression or decreased Cdc14B and or Cdh1 expression the test substance is a candidate for development as an agent capable of inducing apoptosis or cell death. Likewise any such modulator is a candidate for use as a tumor sensitizing agent. Additionally any such modulator is a candidate for use in combination with another DNA damaging or chemotherapeutic agent to facilitate tumor sensitization leading to cell death. The reporter gene assay system described herein may be used in a high throughput primary screen for antagonists or it may be used as a secondary functional screen for candidate compounds identified by a different primary screen e.g. a binding assay screen that identifies compounds that decrease Cdc14B and or Cdh1 transcription activity and or increase Plk1 activity.

Potential drugs may be identified by screening in high throughput assays including without limitation cell based or cell free assays. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that different types of assays can be used to detect different types of agents. Several methods of automated assays have been developed in recent years so as to permit screening of tens of thousands of compounds in a short period of time see e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 585 277 5 679 582 and 6 020 141 . Such high throughput screening methods are particularly preferred. Alternatively simple reporter gene based cell assays such as the one described here are also highly desirable.

Intact cells or whole animals expressing genes encoding at least one of Plk1 Cdc14B and or Cdh1 and optionally also any of the remaining components of an SCF complex can be used in screening methods to identify candidate drugs. In one series of embodiments a permanent cell line is established. Alternatively cells are transiently programmed to express a Plk1 gene by introduction of appropriate DNA or mRNA. As described herein transgenic animals can also be used to screen for or study agents that increase the level of Plk1. Similarly it may be desirable for cells to be transiently programmed to express any of the genes encoding Cdc14B and or Cdh1 by introduction of appropriate DNA or mRNA. As described herein transgenic animals can also be used to screen for or study agents that increase the level of Cdc14B and or Cdh1.

Identification of candidate substances can be achieved using any suitable assay including without limitation i assays that measure selective binding of test compounds to Plk1 to the Plk1 binding site on Cdc14B and or Cdh1 or another one of its substrates ii assays that measure the ability of a test substance to modify e.g. inhibit a measurable activity or function of Cdc14B and or Cdh1 iii assays that measure the ability of a substance to modify i.e. inhibit the transcriptional activity of sequences derived from the promoter i.e. regulatory regions of at least one of the genes encoding Cdc14B and or Cdh1 and iv assays that modulate e.g. promote the degradation of at least Cdc14B and or Cdh1 proteins while increasing the level of Plk1.

Selected agents may be modified to enhance efficacy stability pharmaceutical compatibility and the like. Structural identification of an agent may be used to identify generate or screen additional agents. For example where peptide agents are identified they may be modified in a variety of ways e.g. to enhance their proteolytic stability.

Another technique of interest for therapeutic purposes is based on the same principles employed for interfering with Cdc14B and or Cdh1 translation in a cellular system namely siRNA technology. Particularly expression of selected genes can be suppressed in human cells by transfecting with exogenous short RNA duplexes siRNA where one strand corresponds to a target region of the mRNA i.e. EST of interest Elbashir et al. Nature 2001 411 494 498 . The siRNA molecules are typically greater than 19 duplex nucleotides and upon entry into the cell siRNA causes the degradation of single stranded ssRNAs RNAs of identical sequences including endogenous mRNAs. siRNA is more potent than standard anti sense technology since it acts through a catalytic mechanism. Effective strategies to deliver siRNAs to target cells in cell culture include physical or chemical transfection. An alternative strategy uses the endogenous expression of siRNAs by various Pol III promoter expression cassettes that allow transcription of functional siRNAs or their precursors Scherr et al. Curr. Med. Chem. 2003 10 3 245 56 . Recently the RNA polymerase III dependent promoter H1 RNA promoter was inserted in the lentiviral genome to drive the expression of a small hairpin RNA shRNA against enhanced green fluorescent protein Abbas Turki et al. Hum. Gene Ther. 2002 13 18 2197 201 . siRNA can also be delivered in a viral vector derived e.g. from a lentivirus Tiscornia et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 2003 100 1844 8 . For review articles see Hannon Nature 2002 418 244 51 and Bernstein et al. RNA 2001 7 11 1509 21. This technology also has been described in vitro in cultured mammalian neurons in Krickevsky and Kosik Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 2002 99 18 11926 9. siRNA technology is also being used to make transgenic animals Cornell et al. Nat. Struct. Biol. 2003 10 2 91 2 . RNAi is described in Publication Nos. WO 99 49029 and WO 01 70949.

HeLa human carcinoma obtained from ATCC or U2OS human osteosarcoma cells are used in certain of the Examples. Cell culture is conducted essentially as described in Donzelli et al. Embo J 2002 21 4875 84 . Cells are grown at 37 C. in a 5 COatmosphere in Dulbecco s modified Eagle s medium Euroclone supplemented with 10 bovine calf serum Hyclone and 2 mM L glutamine Euroclone or in DMEM containing 5 FCS.

U2OS and T98G cells were synchronized as described Dorrello et al. 2006 Peschiaroli et al. 2006 . Pulse treatment of U2OS cells with doxorubicin was performed for one hour at a final concentration of 0.5 M. To measure protein half lives G2 cells were incubated in the presence of 100 g ml cycloheximide dissolved in 100 ethanol.

U2OS HeLa HeLa S3 T98G and HEK293T cells were cultured as described Dorrello et al. 2006 Guardavaccaro et al. 2003 . ATM NHF1 hTERT and ATM GM0252A hTERT fibroblasts were grown as described by Heffernan et al. 2002 .

Mouse monoclonal antibodies were from Zymed Invitrogen anti Cul1 anti Plk1 Sigma anti FLAG anti Cdc27 anti Cdh1 Santa Cruz Biotechnology anti Chk1 anti Geminin anti Cdc25A Boston Biochem anti UbCH10 BD Biosciences anti p27 Covance anti HA and Abcam anti GFP . The mouse monoclonal antibodies against Claspin and USP28 were kind gifts from Thannos Halazonetis and Steve Elledge. Rabbit polyclonal antibodies were from Zymed Invitrogen anti Cks1 Upstate anti phospho Ser10 Histone H3 anti phospho Ser 139 Histone H2AX Santa Cruz Biotechnology anti Wee1 Cdk2 phospho Tyr15 Cdk1 Skp1 Bub1 and Cell Signaling phospho Ser317 Chk1 phospho Thr68 Chk2 . The rabbit polyclonal antibodies against TMPK and TK1 were a kind gift from Zee Fen Chang. Rabbit polyclonal antibodies against Cdk1 Carrano et al. 1999 cyclin A Carrano and Pagano 2001 and the mouse monoclonal antibody to cyclin E Faha et al. 1993 were previously described.

Ubiquitylation assays were previously described Bashir et al. 2004 . Briefly an anti Cdc27 antibody was added to cell extracts and incubated for approximately 3 hours at 4 C. Protein G agarose was then added and incubated for 45 minutes at 4 C. on a rotating wheel. The beads were washed 4 times in Triton buffer and 4 times in QA buffer 10 mM Tris HCl pH 7.5 100 mM KCl 1 mM MgCl 0.1 mM CaCl 1 mM DTT . The resulting beads were used for two reactions of in vitro ubiquitylation. Ubiquitylation assays were performed in a volume of 10 l containing 50 mM Tris pH 7.6 5 mM MgCl2 0.6 mM DTT 2 mM ATP 2 l in vitro transcribed translated unlabelled Cdh1 50 ng l E1 Boston Biochem 100 ng l Ubc1 100 ng l Ubc10 2.5 g l ubiquitin Sigma 1 M ubiquitin aldehyde and 1 l S methionine labelled in vitro transcribed translated substrate i.e. wild type NT Claspin NT Claspin ENL CT Claspin Plk1 or cyclin B labeled in vitro transcribed translated in rabbit reticulocyte lysate RRL . The reactions were incubated at 30 C. for the indicated times and analyzed by SDS PAGE and autoradiography. The RRLs containing the in vitro transcribed translated substrates were treated with 5 mM NEM prior to ubiquitylation reactions which transitorily inactivates ubiquitylating activities present in the RRL Rodrigo Brenni and Morgan 2007 . The assays shown in FIG. SD did not contain Cdh1.

GST Cdh1 or GST Claspin mutants were expressed in BL 21 using the pGEX 4T2 vector Amersham . For protein purification bacteria were grown to an optical density of 600 nm in Luria Bertani medium induced at 37 C. with 0.1 mM isopropyl 1 thio D galactopyranoside and cultivated for 2 h. Bacteria were then pelleted resuspended in NETN buffer 100 mM NaCl 1 mM EDTA 50 mM Tris.HCl pH 7.4 0.5 Nonidet P 40 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride 5 mM benzamidine and sonicated. Insoluble material was removed by centrifugation. Thirty microliters of Glutathione S Sepharose 4b beads Amersham were added to the cleared lysate incubated for 30 min at 4 C. and washed 3 times with NETN buffer. GST pull down assays were performed as described previously Bassermann et al. 2005 . Briefly wild type and mutant Claspin proteins or Cdh1 were in vitro transcribed translated and S radiolabeled using the TNT system Promega . GST fusion proteins were added and incubated for one hour at 4 C. Subsequently protein complexes were washed thoroughly with NETN buffer subjected to SDS PAGE and visualized by autoradiography.

cDNAs of wild type Claspin Claspin point and deletion mutants Trcp1 2 Fbxw4 Fbxw5 Fbxw6 Fbxw7 Cdh1 and Cdc20 were cloned into pcDNA 3.1. pGFP Cdc14A and pGFP Cdc14B were kind gifts from Jiri Lukas. For retrovirus production Cdc14B Cdh1 WT and Cdh1 4 A were subcloned into the retroviral vector pMSCV while Plk1 WT and Plk1 R337A L340A were subcloned into the retroviral vector pBabe. All cDNAs were sequenced. Point mutants were generated using the QuikChange Site directed Mutagenesis kit Stratagene and deletion mutants were prepared by standard PCR procedures.

The sequences of the oligonucleotides corresponding to Trcp1 Trcp2 Cdh1 Cdc14B and Usp28 mRNAs were GUGGAAUUUGUGGAACAUC SEQ ID NO 20 UGAGAAGUCUCCCAGUCAG SEQ ID NO 21 GAUGCUACAUGGUUAUAUA SEQ ID NO 22 and CUGCAUUCACCUUAUCAUU SEQ ID NO 23 respectively. These dsRNA oligos have been previously validated Cdh1 Bashir et al. 2004 Brummelkamp et al. 2002 Donzelli et al. 2002 Ke and Chang 2004 Usp28 Zhang et al. 2006 TrCP1 2 Dorrello et al. 2006 Fong and Sun 2002 Guardavaccaro 2008 Guardavaccaro et al. 2003 Jin et al. 2003 Peschiaroli et al. 2006 and Cdc14B Rodier et al. 2008 . A dsRNA oligo to LacZ mRNA CGUACGCGGAAUACUUCGA SEQ ID NO 24 served as control.

RNA was extracted using the RNeasy Kit Qiagen . cDNA synthesis was performed using Superscript III Invitrogen . Quantitative PCR analysis was performed according to standard procedures. Primer sequences were 

Direct and indirect immunofluorescence was performed as described Frescas et al. 2007 . Primary antibodies anti FLAG Sigma anti GFP Abcam were used at a dilution of 1 1000.

U2OS cells expressing either wild type Cdh1 or Cdh1 4 A were transfected with control or Cdc14B siRNA oligonucleotides and synchronized at G1 S using a double thymidine block. Seven hours post release cells were washed twice in labeling medium phosphate free DMEM supplemented with 10 dialyzed serum Hyclone and subsequently incubated for three hours in labeling medium containing 0.5 M doxorubicine and P orthophosphate 0.5 mCi ml Perkin Elmer . Denatured cell extracts were subsequently prepared in 1 SDS. Prior to immunoprecipitation with anti FLAG agarose Sigma cell extracts were diluted 10 fold with lysis buffer containing 1 Triton X 100.

Gene expression data on Cdc14B Cdh1 and Plk1 were retrieved from the Oncomine website. Data was re analyzed in GraphPad software to show expression levels of Cdc14B Cdh1 and Plk1 for each cancer study. GraphPad software was used to determine P values. Additional details relating to these studies including the pathological and clinical data are available at Oncomine or via the individual journal websites. Kaplan Meier survival curves of 219 brain cancer patients were obtained from the Repository of Molecular Brain Neoplasia Database Rembrandt website of the National Cancer Institute at NIH. Kaplan Meier survival plots were generated by grouping gliomas of all histological grades by the gene expression levels of Cdc14B Cdh1 and Plk1. Additional details relating to these studies including the pathological and clinical data of individual patients are available on the Rembrandt website.

Protein concentrations of whole cell extracts WCE were performed using a Bio Rad DC protein assay Lowry assay according to the manufacturers instructions. For each experiment equal amounts of WCE in general 30 g were separated by SDS PAGE and then analyzed by immunoblotting. Equal protein levels in each lane were confirmed by Ponceau S staining of the membrane and by immunoblotting a protein whose levels are not regulated by either DNA damage or during cell cycle progression e.g. Cul1 or Skp1 . To make the assay as linear as possible densitometric quantification of bands was performed using Quantity One software Bio Rad on low saturation exposures. To be able to directly compare protein levels of different gels and independent experiments an equal WCE e.g. 30 g of HeLa WCE was loaded in each gel as a standard reference.

The following examples are included to demonstrate certain embodiments of the invention. It should be appreciated by those of skill in the art that the techniques disclosed in the examples which follow represent techniques discovered by the inventor to function well in the practice of the invention and thus can be considered to constitute preferred modes for its practice. However those of skill in the art should in light of the present disclosure appreciate that many changes can be made in the specific embodiments which are disclosed and still obtain a like or similar result without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

It was previously known that the levels of Claspin oscillate throughout the cell cycle Mailand et al. 2006 Mamely et al. 2006 Peschiaroli et al. 2006 . The highest Claspin expression levels are observed in S phase and early G2 and levels decrease thereafter becoming almost undetectable during mitosis and the following G1 phase as shown in . In U2OS cells were released from a prometaphase arrest indicated as time 0 and collected at the indicated times. Protein extracts were analyzed by immunoblotting with antibodies to the indicated proteins. AS asynchronous cells . shows cell cycle profiles of the cells used in the experiment shown in as determined by flow cytometry.

For the experiments shown in T98G cells were switched to culture media containing 0.02 FBS to arrest them in G0 G1. Samples were collected at the indicated times after the beginning of the serum starvation and subjected to immunoblot analysis using antibodies to the indicated proteins. shows cell cycle profiles of the cells used in the experiment shown in as determined by flow cytometry.

In U2OS cells were transfected with siRNA oligos to both Trcp1 and Trcp2 mRNAs. Cells were collected after being synchronized in prometaphase PM or G1 phase and cell extracts were analyzed by immunoblotting with antibodies to the indicated proteins.

Levels of Claspin also decrease when cells withdraw from the cell cycle and enter quiescence . Since SCFmediates the degradation of Claspin degradation at G2 M experiments were designed to determine whether this ligase is also responsible for Claspin degradation in G1. Both Trcp1 and Trcp2 were downregulated using an established siRNA oligo and Claspin levels in both M and G1 were analyzed.

While silencing of Trcp induced an accumulation of Claspin in prometaphase cells no effect was visible in G1 cells suggesting that a different ligase from SCFtargets Claspin for degradation in G0 and G1. Thus experiments were designed to identify the uncharacterized G1 specific ubiquitin ligase by investigating the ability of Claspin to bind ubiquitin ligase subunits. The data showed that only Cdh1 was able to co immunoprecipitate endogenous Claspin whereas Fbxw4 Fbxw5 Fbxw6 Fbxw7 and Cdc20 as well as thirteen different F box proteins Peschiaroli et al. 2006 failed to bind Claspin.

To test whether APC Chas a role in the degradation of Claspin during G0 G1 the expression of Cdh1 was reduced in T98G cells using a validated is RNA SEQ ID NO 21 . T98G cells were serum starved following knockdown of Cdh1 and the expression levels of Claspin were analyzed at various time points thereafter. are immunoblots showing Claspin is degraded in G0 and G1 via the APC Cubiquitin ligase. shows that Cdh1 interacts with Claspin in vivo. HEK293T cells were transfected with the indicated FLAG tagged constructs or an empty vector EV . Whole cell extracts WCE were immunoprecipitated IP with anti FLAG resin and immunocomplexes were probed with antibodies to the indicated proteins.

These experiments illustrated that downregulation of Cdh1 strongly inhibited the degradation of Claspin in cells progressively accumulating in G0 G1 . Similarly T98G cells released from a block in prometaphase retained Claspin expression throughout G1 phase upon silencing of Cdh1. Together these data show a role for APC Cin targeting Claspin for degradation during G0 and G1.

The Cdh1 binding motif of Claspin was systematically mapped. In the indicated deletion mutants were transcribed translated in vitro and tested for their binding to GST tagged Cdh1 using in vitro pull down assays. Claspin mutants that were pulled down by GST Cdh1 were separated by SDS PAGE and visualized by autoradiography and designated with the symbol .

In HEK293T cells were co transfected with HA tagged Cdh1 and the indicated FLAG tagged deletion mutants of Claspin. Whole cell extracts WCE bottom panel were immunoprecipitated IP upper two panels with an anti HA antibody and the indicated proteins were detected by immunoblotting. shows a schematic representation of the in vivo binding data shown in .

In in vitro transcribed translated S labeled Cdh1 was assayed for in vitro binding to the indicated GST tagged Claspin fragments. Bound Cdh1 was separated by SDS PAGE and visualized by autoradiography. This series of binding experiments using multiple Claspin deletion mutants narrowed the binding motif to an N terminal region located between amino acids 79 102 of SEQ ID NO 9 .

HEK293T cells were cotransfected with HA tagged Cdh1 and the indicated FLAG tagged Claspin mutants. Whole cell extracts WCE bottom two panels were immunoprecipitated IP upper two panels with an anti HA antibody and the indicated proteins were detected by immunoblotting. Finally five unique triple point mutations to Alanine across Claspin amino acids 79 102 were inserted following the pattern of evolutionary conserved residues and these mutants were assayed for binding to Cdh1. The immunoblots are shown in . Both mutant 2 Claspin EEN and mutant 3 Claspin ENL failed to bind Cdh1 . Thus these studies identified the motif EEN ENL SEQ ID NO 29 located at residues 86 92 of Claspin SEQ ID NO 9 as the site mediating binding to Cdh1. Accordingly in contrast to wild type Claspin Claspin ENL was stable in HeLa cells progressing through G1 .

These data show that the Cdh1 binding site in Claspin is not a canonical degron for APC C substrates i.e. D box or KEN box motifs . Non standard degrons have also been described for Aurora A the A box Littlepage and Ruderman 2002 and Orc1 the O box Araki et al. 2005 .

To further illustrate that Claspin is ubiquitylated via APC C the ubiquitylation of Claspin was reconstituted in vitro. The N terminus of Claspin amino acids 1 678 of SEQ ID NO 9 was efficiently ubiquitylated only when Cdh1 was present and . show that the N terminus of claspin is ubiquitylated in a Cdh1 dependent manner. shows in vitro ubiquitin ligation assays with S labeled in vitro transcribed translated Claspin N terminus NT amino acids 1 678 . shows cyclin B as a positive control in vitro ubiquitin ligation assays conducted in the presence or absence of Cdh1 using different UBCs. Samples were incubated at 30 C. and analyzed at the indicated times. The bracket on the right side marks a ladder of bands corresponding to polyubiquitylated proteins. These experiments show that the ubiquitylation of Claspin is dependent on the presence of Cdh1 and is stimulated by Ubc1 also called E2 25K which promotes ubiquitylation of APC Csubstrates by Ubc10. Ubiquitylation of APC Csubstrates by Ubc10 is described by Rodrigo Brenni and Morgan 2007.

In contrast no Cdh1 dependent ubiquitylation of Claspin ENL was observed . Similarly the C terminus of Claspin amino acids 679 1333 of SEQ ID NO 9 lacking the Cdh1 binding domain was not ubiquitylated despite the presence of Cdh1.

Thus experiments in cell systems including an in vivo model system and in an in vitro reconstituted model show that Cdh1 promotes the ubiquitylation and consequent degradation of Claspin in a manner that requires an intact Cdh1 interaction motif.

Usp28 deubiquitylates and consequently stabilizes Claspin in response to DNA damage Zhang et al. 2006 . After genotoxic stress the recognition of Claspin by the SCFubiquitin ligase is impaired due to the inhibition of Plk1 Mailand et al. 2006 Mamely et al. 2006 Peschiaroli et al. 2006 Smits et al. 2000 . Under these conditions Claspin is continuously ubiquitylated via an unidentified ubiquitin ligase that is different from SCF. A G2 phase specific reactivation of APC Cafter DNA damage has been described in vertebrates Sudo et al. 2001 but the reason for this reactivation is not known. The present experiments confirm that Cdh1 re associates with Cdc27 an APC C core subunit in human G2 cells subjected to genotoxic stresses and that this APC Cis active .

In line with these results experiments were designed to investigate whether APC Ctargets Claspin during G2 in response to DNA damage which would explain the need for Usp28. In these experiments the expression of Cdh1 Usp28 or both Cdh1 and Usp28 were silenced in U2OS cells using previously validated siRNA oligos SEQ ID NO 21 SEQ ID NO 23 . After transfection cells were synchronized at G1 S and then allowed to progress through the cell cycle. Seven hours after the release from G1 S when cells were in G2 cells were pulsed with doxorubicin for one hour to induce DNA damage and harvested at different times thereafter . The results showed that downregulation of Usp28 resulted in decreased levels of Claspin lanes 14 and 15 . However when both Usp28 and Cdh1 were silenced together the expression of Claspin was partially restored lanes 19 and 20 indicating that Usp28 counteracts Cdh1 dependent degradation of Claspin.

The immunoblots in show extracts of U2OS cells that were transfected with the indicated siRNA oligos and synchronized at G1 S using a double thymidine block. Cells were then released from the block to allow progression towards G2. At seven hours post release cells were pulsed for one hour with either solvent or doxorubicin DRB and collected at the indicated times thereafter. Whole cell extracts were analyzed by immunoblotting with antibodies to the indicated proteins. Synchrony was verified by flow cytometry. To facilitate comparison a gray line separates samples treated with doxorubicin from untreated samples.

The graphs in C and D show the quantification of the levels of Claspin Plk1 and Chk1 phosphorylated on Ser317 shown in at the 10 hour timepoint averaged with two additional independent experiments. The value given for the amount of protein present in the control sample two hours after the end of the doxorubicin pulse was set as 1 n 3 SD .

The immunoblots in show extracts of U2OS cells that were synchronized and treated with DRB as described in . Samples were collected at the indicated times and processed for immunoblot analysis with antibodies to the indicated proteins.

To determine if Claspin is protected from proteolysis by Usp28 in DNA damaged G2 cells experiments were designed to determine what substrates are targeted for degradation by APC C. In these experiments the levels of 15 G1 substrates of Cdh1 Claspin Plk1 Cdc25A Ubc10 cyclin A cyclin B Cdc6 Aurora A Geminin Tk1 Tmpk Skp2 Cks1 Cdc20 and Bub1 were analyzed. U2OS cells were synchronized in G2 and pulsed with doxorubicin as described for . Samples were collected at different times thereafter and subjected to immunoblotting. The levels of Plk1 decreased in response to DNA damage in a manner similar to Cdc25A whose degradation after genotoxic stresses is dependent on SCF Busino et al. 2003 Jin et al. 2003 . The other 13 substrates of APC Cremained unchanged or showed slight increases in their abundance .

Next it was determined whether Plk1 degradation is dependent on the reactivated APC Ccomplex. These resulted showed that levels of Plk1 were considerably reduced in the presence of doxorubicin at the 10 hour time point compared to the untreated sample compare lane 3 to lane 5 in . In contrast when cells were treated with Cdh1 siRNA oligos SEQ ID NO 21 Plk1 levels remained unchanged despite the presence of DNA damage compare lane 3 to lanes 10 and 20 in . Downregulation of Usp28 did not affect Plk1 levels or Plk1 half life and indicating that Usp28 does not oppose ubiquitylation of Plk1 as it does with Claspin.

Knockdown of Cdh1 and or Usp28 had no effect on Cdc25A . Interestingly compared to samples treated with control oligos downregulation of Cdh1 induced a reduction in the levels of Claspin and in the activating phosphorylation of Chk1 on Ser317 B . This last result shows that APC Cactivity is necessary to sustain Claspin expression in response to genotoxic stress in G2. Since Plk1 promotes Claspin degradation the stabilization of Plk1 which occurred in cells where Cdh1 expression was silenced may explain why Claspin levels decrease under these conditions.

The above results show that APC Ctargets Claspin and Plk1 in response to DNA damage in G2 and that Usp28 selectively counteracts this action on Claspin. In addition these results suggest that the APC C mediated degradation of Plk1 promotes Claspin stabilization and the consequent activation of Chk1.

A destruction box in Plk1 is required for the APC C dependent degradation of Plk1 during late M and in G1 Lindon and Pines 2004 . A stable Plk1 mutant Plk1 R337A L340A was generated to investigate the biological function of Plk1 degradation in response to DNA damage in G2. U2OS cells were retrovirally infected with either wild type Plk1 or Plk1 Plk1 R337A L340A i.e. the mutant Plk1 were synchronized in G2 pulsed for one hour with doxorubicin and followed for an additional three hour period. These results showed that Plk1 R337A L340A was not degraded following treatment with doxorubicin whereas a significant decrease in the levels of wild type Plk1 was observed B C and D . The difference in Plk1 levels corresponded to the difference in the half lives of wild type Plk1 versus Plk1 R337A L340A F . This finding shows that DNA damage induced degradation of Plk1 in G2 is mediated by its Cdh1 binding site.

U2OS cells retrovirally infected with the indicated Plk1 constructs were synchronized and treated with DRB as described in . Cells were then collected at the indicated times and immunoblotted with antibodies to the indicated proteins. To facilitate comparison a gray line separates samples treated with doxorubicin from untreated samples. The immunoblots are shown in .

The graphs in show the quantification of the levels of Claspin Plk1 and Chk1 phosphorylated on Ser317 shown in at the 10 hour timepoint averaged with an additional independent experiment. The value given for the amount of protein present in the control sample two hours after the end of the doxorubicin pulse was set as 1 n 2 .

U2OS cells were infected synchronized and pulsed with doxorubicin as in except that cycloheximide CHX was added seven hours after release from G1 S. At different times after the addition of CHX cells were collected and cell lysates were immunoblotted with antibodies to the indicated proteins. The immunoblots are shown in .

The graph in shows the quantification of the levels of wild type Plk1 and Plk1 R337A L340A shown in averaged with two additional independent experiments n 3 SD .

U2OS cells infected with either an empty virus EV or retroviruses encoding wild type Plk1 Plk1 R337A L340A or Cdc25A S82A were synchronized and treated with DRB as described in . Thereafter cells were incubated in fresh medium containing nocodazole to trap cells in mitosis. Samples were then collected at the indicated times and the percentage of mitotic cells was monitored by immunodetection of Histone H3 phosphorylated on Ser10 using flow cytometry n 3 SD . The graph of the flow cytometric results is shown in .

U2OS cells treated as in were collected 23 hours after release from G1 S 16 hours after the doxorubicin pulse and then cell lysates were immunoblotted with antibodies to the indicated proteins. The immunoblots are shown in .

Following DNA damage the lack of Plk1 R337A L340A degradation was associated with decreased levels of Claspin and reduced phosphorylation of Chk1 B similar to what is observed when Cdh1 is silenced B . Since Plk1 initiates the SCF dependent degradation of Claspin following recovery from DNA damage stresses these data argue for a role of Cdh1 in limiting Plk1 levels to preserve Claspin stability and Chk1 activation in response to DNA damage in G2.

To investigate the impact of stable Plk1 on the maintenance of the checkpoint U2OS cells treated as in were incubated with nocodazole to trap cells in mitosis and followed for longer time points up to 31 hours after release from G1 S i.e. 24 hours after the pulse with doxorubicin . In addition to cells expressing wild type Plk1 or Plk1 R337A L340A this experiment included cells expressing a stable Cdc25A S82A mutant which is known to impair the checkpoint response to DNA damage Busino et al. 2003 . Mitotic entry was determined by immunostaining for Ser10 phosphorylated Histone H3. Cells infected with an empty viral vector showed only marginal mitotic entry indicative of an intact G2 checkpoint while cells expressing wild type Plk1 or Cdc25A S82A displayed an increase in cells entering mitosis. Strikingly and surprisingly mitotic entry was significantly more pronounced in cells expressing Plk1 R337A L340A indicating that Cdh1 mediated degradation of Plk1 is a critical step to establish and maintain the DNA damage checkpoint in G2. The relatively moderate elevation of mitotic entry observed when wild type Plk1 was expressed is likely due to the increased demand on the proteolytic machinery to degrade the excess of Plk1.

Importantly the expression of a stable Claspin mutant lacking the TrCP degron prevented Plk1 R337A L340A from bypassing the checkpoint confirming that the induced degradation of Claspin is a major mechanism for Plk1 to induce premature mitosis. In the experiment was performed as in except U2OS cells were also infected with retroviral constructs encoding both Plk1 R337A L340A and either a Claspin mutant lacking the Trcp degron Claspin S30 34A Peschiaroli et al. 2006 or a Wee1 mutant lacking the Trcp degron Wee1 S53 123A Watanabe et al. 2004 . The percentage of mitotic cells was monitored by immunodetection of Histone H3 phosphorylated on Ser10 using flow cytometry n 3 SD for the first three bars and n 2 for the last one .

To elucidate the molecular mechanisms by which cells expressing Plk1 R337A L340A are able to bypass this checkpoint cell extracts were also analyzed by immunoblotting . All major events downstream from Plk1 which ultimately lead to the activation of Cdk1 and entry into mitosis were observed in DNA damaged cells expressing the stable Plk1 mutant but not wild type Plk1. shows that compared to wild type Plk1 lane 2 Plk1 R337A L340A expression lane 4 resulted in i degradation of Claspin with the consequent reduction in activating phosphorylation of Chk1 ii degradation of the Cdk1 inhibitor Wee1 another SCFsubstrate whose degradation is promoted by Plk1 Watanabe et al. 2004 iii elevated Cdc25A levels likely due to low Chk1 activity iv dephosphorylation of Cdk1 on Tyr15 likely due to low levels of Wee1 and high Cdc25A expression v lower p21 levels and vi phosphorylation of Histone H3 on Ser10. Thus cells entered mitosis despite the presence of DNA damage visualized by the presence of H2AX phosphorylation bottom panel in and .

Therefore these data show that Cdh1 driven degradation of Plk1 in response to DNA damage is vital to maintain an efficient G2 checkpoint.

To be able to associate with and activate APC C in late mitosis Cdh1 must be dephosphorylated at sites that were phosphorylated by CDKs during S and G2 Lukas et al. 1999 Mitra et al. 2006 Sorensen et al. 2001 . The present data indicates that APC Cis activated in G2 following DNA damage to target Plk1 and further indicates that a phosphatase may be required to remove the inhibitory phosphates from Cdh1. Studies in yeast have shown that Cdc14 dephosphorylates Cdh1 in late mitosis D Amours and Amon 2004 Sullivan and Morgan 2007 . Two Cdc14 paralogs exist in mammals Cdc14A and Cdc14B. Whereas Cdc14A is localized to the centrosomes Cdc14B localizes to the nucleolus Cho et al. 2005 Mailand et al. 2002 . As a first step to study whether one of the Cdc14 phosphatases may dephosphorylate and activate Cdh1 in G2 phase in response to a genotoxic stress experiments were designed to illustrate their subcellular localizations after treatment with doxorubicin or ionizing radiation. These experiments showed that Cdc14B was initially localized to the nucleolus however surprisingly following DNA damage it moved to the nucleoplasm . In contrast no change in subcellular localization was observed for Cdc14A. shows that Cdc14B moves from the nucleolus to the nucleoplasm in response to DNA damage. U2OS cells transfected with a construct expressing GFP tagged Cdc14B were synchronized as described in and then either treated with DRB caffeine CAF or subjected to ionizing radiations IR . Cells were then collected and analyzed by direct immunofluorescence. shows micrographs of representative cells showing the subcellular localization of Cdc14B. shows the quantification of cells with nuclear Cdc14B fluorescence at the indicated times post pulse with doxorubicin n 3 SD .

Interestingly the nuclear localization of Cdc14B did not depend on ATM as relocalization from the nucleolus was also observed in the presence of caffeine and in ATM fibroblasts . Human Cdc14B SEQ ID NO 15 has three ATM phosphorylation consensus sites one SQ and two TQs two of which are not conserved in many other mammals. In contrast the third site Thr426 is conserved in all vertebrates. The Thr426 was mutated to Ala and this mutant Cdc14B T426A continued to move to the nucleus after DNA damage confirming that ATM does not play a role in Cdc14B translocation.

Next to test whether Cdc14B and Cdh1 physically interact in response to DNA damage in G2 co immunoprecipitation experiments in G2 U2OS cells were performed. Surprisingly an interaction between the two proteins was only observed after treatment with doxorubicin . Thus during the G2 DNA damage response Cdc14B moves to nucleus and binds Cdh1.

The finding that Cdc14B and Cdh1 interact in a DNA damage dependent manner in G2 indicated that Cdc14B is involved in the reactivation of APC C. To further test this hypothesis the effect of silencing Cdc14B was determined. U2OS cells were transfected with previously validated siRNA oligos directed against either Cdc14B SEQ ID NO 22 or Cdh1 SEQ ID NO 21 and then synchronized. Upon reaching G2 seven hours after release from G1 S cells were pulsed with doxorubicin and collected at different times points thereafter .

In U2OS cells were transfected with the indicated siRNA oligos and the cells were synchronized and treated with DRB as described in . The cells were collected at the indicated times and cell lysates were analyzed by immunoblotting with antibodies to the indicated proteins.

The graphs in C and D show the quantification of Claspin Plk1 and Chk1 phosphorylated on Ser317 shown in at the 10 hour timepoint averaged with an additional independent experiment. The value given for the amount of protein present in the control sample two hours after the end of the doxorubicin pulse was set as 1 n 2 .

U2OS cells transfected with the indicated siRNA oligos were treated as in . Twenty three hours after release from G1 S 16 hours after the doxorubicin pulse cells were collected and cell lysates were analyzed by immunoblotting with antibodies to the indicated proteins. The immunoblots are shown in .

Strikingly silencing of Cdc14B resulted in the stabilization of Plk1 to an extent comparable to that obtained from silencing Cdh1 and . Moreover reduced levels of Claspin and impaired phosphorylation of Chk1 at Ser317 were observed in the Cdc14B knockdown samples suggesting that the elevated Plk1 levels produced an effect on downstream targets. Thus the presence of Cdc14B appears vital for Plk1 degradation in G2 upon genotoxic stress.

To investigate the impact of silencing Cdc14B on the maintenance of the G2 checkpoint U2OS cells treated as in were followed for a longer time course up to 23 hours after release from G1 S . Even at these late time points Plk1 was stabilized when Cdc14B was downregulated and . Importantly similar to what was observed when the stable Plk1 mutant was expressed events downstream of Plk1 which lead to entry into mitosis were observed in the Cdc14B knockdown samples F increased degradation of Claspin and Wee1 reduction in the activating phosphorylation of Chk1 elevated Cdc25A levels reduction in the inactivating phosphorylation of Cdk1 and phosphorylation of Histone H3 on Ser10.

Thus Cdc14B similar to Cdh1 is critical to establish and maintain the DNA damage checkpoint in G2. Interestingly while downregulation of Cdc14B induced checkpoint bypass the combination of Cdh1 and Cdc14B siRNAs had no additional effect showing that both proteins function in the same pathway.

The phosphatase activity of Cdc14B towards Cdh1 is predicted to occur on sites that are phosphorylated by CDKs. The four sites phosphorylated in Cdh1 by CDKs during S and G2 have been previously described Lukas et al. 1999 Sorensen et al. 2001 . To further investigate the role of Cdc14B in activating Cdh1 in G2 upon DNA damage U2OS cells were infected with retroviruses expressing either wild type Cdh1 or Cdh1 4 A a constitutively active phosphorylation deficient Cdh1 mutant in which the four CDK phosphorylation sites are mutated to Alanine. Subsequently these cells were subjected to experiments analogous to those shown in .

The graphs in C and D show the quantification of the levels of Claspin Plk1 and Chk1 phosphorylated on Ser317 shown in at the indicated timepoint averaged with an additional independent experiment. The value given for the amount of protein present in the control sample two hours after the end of the doxorubicin pulse was set as 1 n 2 .

The immunoblots in show U2OS cells expressing wild type Cdh1 or Cdh1 4 A that were transfected with the indicated siRNA oligos and treated as in . Twenty three hours after release from G1 S 16 hours after the doxorubicin pulse cells were collected and cell lysates were analyzed by immunoblotting with antibodies to the indicated proteins.

In the experiment was performed as in except that U2OS cells were also transfected with siRNA oligos targeting both Cdh1 and Cdc14B. The percentage of mitotic cells was monitored by immunodetection of Histone H3 phosphorylated on Ser10 using flow cytometry n 3 . These results show that co silencing of Cdh1 and Cdc14B is not synergistic in bypassing the checkpoint.

In Cdc14B mRNA levels of cells used in and were analyzed eight hours after release from G1 S using real time PCR in triplicate measurements SD . The value given for the amount of Cdc14B mRNA present in the sample expressing wild type Cdh1 and treated with control oligos was set as 1.

In synchrony in G2 was ascertained by flow cytometry for cells used in at the time of doxorubicin treatment. Identical synchrony in G2 was obtained for cells used in .

In the immunoblotting experiment was performed as in except that an in vivo labeling with P orthophosphate was performed during the last three hours before cells were collected. Cdh1 was then immunoprecipitated under denaturing conditions resolved by SDS PAGE and visualized by autoradiography upper panel or immunoblotting bottom panel . I shows Cdc14B mRNA levels analyzed by real time PCR.

As in non infected cells the silencing of Cdc14B in cells expressing wild type Cdh1 resulted in the stabilization of Plk1 in response to DNA damage and in downstream events regulated by Plk1 . In marked contrast silencing of Cdc14B did not stabilize Plk1 in cells expressing Cdh1 4 A and . Consequently Claspin was not degraded and Chk1 was efficiently phosphorylated upon DNA damage. Moreover despite the downregulation of Cdc14B cells expressing Cdh1 4 A displayed high levels of Wee1 inactivating phosphorylation of Cdk1 high levels of p21 and low levels of phosphorylation of Histone H3 on Ser10 compare lane 2 and 4 showing that in the presence of a constitutively active Cdh1 mutant Cdc14B becomes dispensable for sustaining the G2 checkpoint.

Importantly these results show that after DNA damage the in vivo phosphorylation of wild type Cdh1 but not that of Cdh1 4 A increased after Cdc14B silencing indicating that in response to genotoxic stress Cdc14B dephosphorylates Cdh1 on the four sites phosphorylated by Cdk2.

These results indicate that upon DNA damage in G2 Cdh1 is the relevant target of Cdc14B and that CDK mediated phosphorylation of Cdh1 is the relevant constraint that is removed by Cdc14B.

These data show that the Cdc14B Cdh1 Plk1 axis controls the G2 DNA damage checkpoint see model in . is a schematic model of the G2 DNA damage response checkpoint. Black signifies activated forms of the respective proteins and gray indicates inactive forms or degraded proteins. After induction of double strand breaks DSB in G2 ATM activates Chk2. In addition ATM activates certain exonucleases to induce DSB resection resulting in RPA coated single stranded DNA ssDNA which contributes to the recruitment of ATR. In parallel Cdc14B is released from the nucleolus to the nucleoplasm activating APC C which in turn targets Plk1 for proteasomal degradation. Because of the low levels of Plk1 phosphorylation of Claspin and Wee1 is reduced preventing Trcp mediated degradation. Claspin is protected from APC C mediated degradation by Usp28. Stable Claspin promotes the ATR mediated activation of Chk1 which together with Chk2 targets Cdc25A inducing its degradation and p53 promoting its stabilization and consequent induction of p21 . As a result Cdk1 activity is attenuated and cells arrest in G2. Stable Wee1 contributes to this inhibition by directly phosphorylating Cdk1. The reduction in Cdk1 activity further removes the constraints on APC Cactivity.

To investigate a potential involvement of this pathway in human cancer the Oncomine database was searches for the differential expression of Cdc14B Cdh1 and Plk1 in normal versus tumor tissues. Analysis of the database results show the expression of Cdc14B always and Cdh1 in most cases to be significantly decreased in many common tumors such as breast prostate ovary liver and brain tumors FIGS. SA L . show the analysis of mRNA levels of Cdc14B Cdh1 and Plk1 in different human tumors. All raw data was provided by the Oncomine database. The associated P values are shown for each study.

Conversely levels of Plk1 were consistently and significantly increased in most tumors M R . Importantly the decrease in Cdc14B expression and the increase in Plk1 levels significantly correlate with the grade of breast cancer.

Finally downregulation of Cdc14B and Cdh1 and or upregulation of Plk1 correlate with survival in glioma patients . These results suggest that a failure in the Cdc14B Cdh1 Plk1 axis is likely to impair the G2 DNA damage checkpoint with the consequent acquisition of genomic instability.

Following genotoxic stresses Claspin promotes ATR mediated phosphorylation and activation of Chk1 Harper and Elledge 2007 . In G2 during the recovery from DNA replication stress or DNA damage Claspin is phosphorylated by Plk1 and consequently degraded via SCF Mailand et al. 2006 Mamely et al. 2006 Peschiaroli et al. 2006 . This process contributes to turning off the checkpoint to promote the entry of cells into mitosis. SCF dependent ubiquitylation of Claspin remains active at least until prometaphase however Claspin reaccumulates only at the G1 S transition of the next cell cycle suggesting that Claspin degradation is active during G1.

Several substrates degraded via SCF ligases in specific phases of the cell cycle are eliminated by the means of APC C at different times. For example p21 and M11 are degraded at G1 S via SCFand at G2 M via APC C Amador et al. 2007 Liu et al. 2007 . Similarly Cdc25A whose degradation is mediated by SCFduring S is eliminated in G1 via APC C Busino et al. 2003 Donzelli et al. 2002 Jin et al. 2003 . The present results illustrate that in contrast to degradation of Claspin in G2 via SCF Claspin proteolysis in G1 cells is directed by APC C .

APC Cmaintains the G0 G1 state by ensuring that many positive regulators of S and M do not accumulate prematurely a function important for genome stability Guardavaccaro and Pagano 2006 Peters 2006 . Claspin plays a poorly understood positive role in DNA replication which appears distinct from its role in checkpoint signaling. In fact not only does expression of Claspin represent a reliable marker of cell proliferation in both human cancer and normal tissues Tsimaratou et al. 2007 but Claspin overexpression has also been shown to increase cell proliferation Lin et al. 2004 . The present results support that Claspin represents another substrate that APC Ckeeps at low levels during G1 to avoid premature entry into S.

This initial result proved to be an invaluable portal to gain entry into the signaling network that mediates the G2 checkpoint starting from the following observation. Upon DNA damage in G2 Claspin is no longer phosphorylated on its degron blocking recognition by Trcp Peschiaroli et al. 2006 . Therefore the present experiments were undertaken to determine why Usp28 is required to deubiquitylate and stabilize Claspin upon DNA damage Zhang et al. 2006 . The present results demonstrate that APC Cis reactivated in response to DNA damage thereby inducing ubiquitylation of Claspin which is neutralized by Usp28 .

These results lead to a novel question. If Claspin is ubiquitylated in response to DNA damage as a byproduct of APC Cactivation but is protected from degradation by Usp28 what are the relevant substrate s that are degraded via APC Cunder these conditions To address this question in the present experiments 15 substrates that are known to be targeted by this ligase in G0 G1 were surveyed and the data show that only two were downregulated Plk1 and Cdc25A . The latter is known to be degraded via SCFafter genotoxic stresses Busino et al. 2003 Jin et al. 2003 and in fact its levels did not promptly increase when Cdh1 was silenced . In contrast Plk1 degradation was abolished when Cdh1 levels were lowered by siRNA B C D and showing that Cdh1 promotes Plk1 degradation. The lack of Claspin phosphorylation and consequent stabilization Peschiaroli et al. 2006 is attributed to the inactivation of Plk1 that occurs after DNA damage Smits et al. 2000 but how Plk1 is inactivated had remained largely unknown. The present experiments show that Plk1 is degraded via APC Cfollowing DNA damage. Downregulation of Cdh1 or the expression of a stable Plk1 mutant both resulted in the downregulation of Claspin in G2 DNA damaged cells B H and E . Thus APC Cexerts a dual control on Claspin stability during G1 it promotes Claspin degradation whereas after genotoxic stresses in G2 it allows Claspin stabilization by mediating the degradation of Plk1 which in turn disables Claspin proteolysis via SCF.

Knockdown of Cdh1 or the expression of a Cdh1 insensitive mutant of Plk1 also resulted in additional defects in the following cellular responses to DNA damage activating phosphorylation of Chk1 that correlates with the accumulation of Claspin Cdc25A degradation accumulation of Wee1 inactivating phosphorylation of Cdk1 induction of p21 and low levels of phosphorylation of Histone H3 on Ser10 H E and . Importantly the present results show that APC C mediated degradation of Plk1 is essential for the establishment of an efficient G2 checkpoint that prevents entry into M upon genotoxic stresses H .

The degradation of Cdc25A and induction of p21 represent two established mechanisms that contribute to the inactivation of Cdk1 in response to DNA damage. The present results show for the first time that APC C mediated degradation of Plk1 is upstream of these events see model in . Moreover by promoting Wee1 stabilization the degradation of Plk1 also induces a direct inhibition of Cdk1. Thus Plk1 proteolysis via APC Cappears to be necessary for effective inhibition of Cdk1 after genotoxic stresses.

The molecular mechanisms leading to APC Creactivation in response to DNA damage were also investigated. CDK dependent phosphorylation of Cdh1 dissociates Cdh1 from APC C to prevent its activation from G1 S until anaphase. In yeast Cdh1 activation in anaphase involves Cdh1 dephosphorylation by the Cdc14 phosphatase but whether this mechanism is conserved in mammals is unknown. Interestingly the levels of Cdc14 in yeast and frog do not oscillate during the cell cycle but the protein is sequestered in the nucleolus until mitosis D Amours and Amon 2004 Kaiser et al. 2004 . Likewise the expression of human Cdc14B mRNA does not change during cell cycle progression Whitfield et al. 2002 and Cdc14B protein is localized to the nucleolus Cho et al. 2005 . The present results show that in response to DNA damage human Cdc14B translocates from the nucleolus to the nucleoplasm where it physically binds and activates Cdh1 . This result explains why Cdc14B is not expressed exclusively at G2 M like other mitotic regulators. Rather it is sequestered in the nucleolus during interphase allowing prompt release in response to genotoxic stresses.

Since the expression of Cdh1 4 A makes Cdc14B dispensable upon DNA damage in G2 and silencing of Cdc14B increases the phosphorylation of wild type Cdh1 but not that of Cdh1 4 A it is proposed that Cdc14B activates Cdh1 by reversing the CDK mediated phosphorylation of Cdh1.

Interestingly Cdc14B release from the nucleolus is not dependent on ATM whose activation is considered the most upstream signaling event after chromosomal breakage . The mechanism of mitotic release activation of Cdc14 is relatively well understood in yeast where the process is initiated by the early anaphase release network and completed by the mitotic exit network D Amours and Amon 2004 Sullivan and Morgan 2007 .

In addition to Claspin other Cdh1 substrates e.g. cyclin A cyclin B and Geminin are stable in damaged cells despite the reactivation of APC C. Nevertheless they are not destabilized when either Cdh1 and or Usp28 are downregulated . Thus these results indicate that two pools of APC Cexist in G2. One pool targeting cyclins and Geminin is inactive both in the presence and absence of genotoxic stress likely because it is inhibited by Emi1. In fact shows that Emi1 binding to Cdc27 is not influenced by DNA damage. The other pool targeting Claspin and Plk1 is inhibited by phosphorylation and is reactivated in response to DNA damage with Claspin ubiquitylation counteracted by Usp28.

While DUBs reverting protein modification by ubiquitin e.g. monoubiquitylation and polyubiquitylation via Lys63 and ubiquitin like molecules that do not target proteins for degradation are simple to envision it is more difficult to envision why proteins should be stabilized by deubiquitylation rather than by lack of ubiquitylation. The present results show that in some cases regulation by DUBs is necessary to counteract the activity of ubiquitin ligases on selective substrates. The specificity of DUBs however is poorly understood and it is currently unknown how Usp28 targets Claspin but not Plk1.

The present analysis of the available databases also shows that the levels of Cdc14B Plk1 and Cdh1 are deregulated in human tumors and this deregulation correlates with the survival of cancer patients and . Abnormal levels or activity of these proteins is likely to disrupt orderly cell cycle progression. Furthermore the present results illustrate that a failure in the Cdc14B Cdh1 Plk1 axis induces an inefficient G2 DNA damage checkpoint with the consequent risk of genomic instability.

In conclusion while it was previously appreciated that the major function of APC Cis the maintenance of the G0 G1 state the present results demonstrate that in response to DNA damage APC Cis reactivated to allow the elimination of the pro mitotic kinase Plk1. Importantly APC C mediated degradation of Plk1 is essential for the establishment and maintenance of an efficient G2 checkpoint. Finally the present data provide evidence that APC Cis activated by Cdc14B released from the nucleolus upon genotoxic stresses. These findings indicate that the Cdc14B Cdh1 Plk axis is a hub in the G2 DNA damage response in mammalian cells that is important for the inhibition of Cdk1 and the prevention of entry into mitosis. In contrast to the TrCP mediated degradation of Cdc25A and the p53 dependent induction of p21 Cdc14B Plk1 and Cdh1 are well conserved from yeast to human suggesting that the regulatory network described herein represents an ancient response to genotoxic stress that is conserved along evolution.

The present invention is not to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments described herein. Indeed various modifications of the invention in addition to those described herein will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing description and the accompanying figures. Such modifications are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims.

While the compositions and methods of this invention have been described in terms of specific embodiments it will be apparent to those of skill in the art that variations may be applied to the compositions and methods and in the steps or in the sequence of steps of the method described herein without departing from the concept and scope of the invention. More specifically it will be apparent that certain agents which are both chemically and physiologically related may be substituted for the agents described herein while the same or similar results would be achieved. All such similar substitutes and modifications apparent to those skilled in the art are deemed to be within the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

Patents patent applications publications product descriptions and protocols are cited throughout this application the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties for all purposes.

