---

title: Prioritizing a content item for a user
abstract: The disclosed subject matter relates to methods for prioritizing a content item for a user. In one aspect, a method includes receiving user authentication events corresponding to a user account. A user is associated with the user account. The method further includes determining a time distribution of the received user authentication events. The method further includes constructing, based on the determination, a content prioritization user model corresponding to the user associated with the user account. The method further includes receiving a content item associated with the user. The method further includes associating, based on the content prioritization user model, a content priority value with the content item. The content priority value corresponds to a predicted aspect of the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09069864&OS=09069864&RS=09069864
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09069864
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120921
---
The present disclosure generally relates to prioritizing a content item and in particular to prioritizing a content item for a user based on a content prioritization model constructed based on the user s user account authentication events.

A user may have specific interests and may prefer to consume content related to those interests. As an example a user may be interested in a particular entertainer. Thus when visiting an online entertainment tabloid website the user may prefer to view stories gossip columns photographs videos etc. relating to that entertainer. To that end the user may have to search for stories related to that entertainer.

In one innovative aspect the disclosed subject matter can be embodied in a method. The method includes receiving user authentication events corresponding to a user account. A user is associated with the user account. The method further includes determining a time distribution of the received user authentication events. The method further includes constructing based on the determination a content prioritization user model corresponding to the user associated with the user account. The method further includes receiving a content item associated with the user. The method further includes associating based on the content prioritization user model a content priority value with a content item. The content priority value corresponds to a predicted aspect of the user.

These and other embodiments can include one or more of the following features. The predicted aspect of the user can be a predicted interest of the user or a predicted location corresponding to the user. The user authentication events can correspond to authentication based on the user account to an online resource. The online resource can be a website a service or an Application Programming Interface API . The content item when associated with the content priority value results in a prioritized content item. Construction of the content prioritization user model can include selecting one or more decision variables from a plurality of decision variables. The construction can further include selecting one or more user model variables from a plurality of user model variables. A statistical model can be implemented based on the selected decision variable s and user model variable s . The statistical model can be trained based on a training set which includes tuples of the selected decision variable s and user model variable s . The statistical model can be logistic regression. The decision variable can be the time distribution of the received authentication events. The time distribution of the received authentication events can include a mean and a variance respectively of the time of the user authentication events. The content prioritization user model can be updated based on user feedback. User feedback can include a reaction of the user in response to the prioritized content item.

In another innovative aspect the disclosed subject matter can be embodied in a system. The system includes a memory which includes instructions and a processor. The processor is configured to execute the instructions to receive user authentication events corresponding to a user account. A user is associated with the user account. The received user authentication events correspond to authentication based on the user account to an online resource. The processor is further configured to determine a time distribution of the received authentication events. The processor is further configured to construct based on the determination a content prioritization user model corresponding to the user associated with the user account. The processor is further configured to receive a content item associated with the user. The processor is further configured to associate based on the content prioritization user model a content priority value with a content item. The content priority value corresponds to a predicted aspect of the user.

These and other embodiments can include one or more of the following features. The predicted aspect of the user can be a predicted interest of the user or a predicted location corresponding to the user. The online resource can be a website a service or an Application Programming Interface API . The content item when associated with the content priority value results in a prioritized content item. The prioritized content item can be provided for display. Construction of the content prioritization model can include selection of one or more decision variables from a plurality of decision variables. The construction can further include selection of one or more user model variables from a plurality of user model variables. A statistical model can be implemented based on the selected decision variable s and user model variable s . The statistical model can be trained based on a training set which includes tuples of the selected decision variable s and user model variable s . The decision variable can be the time distribution of the received user authentication events. The time distribution of the received authentication events can include a mean and a variance respectively of the time of the user authentication events. The content prioritization user model can be updated based on user feedback. User feedback can include a reaction of the user in response to the prioritized content item.

In another innovative aspect the disclosed subject matter can be embodied in a machine readable medium. The machine readable medium includes machine readable instructions for causing a processor to execute a method. The method includes receiving user authentication events corresponding to a user account. A user is associated with the user account. The method further includes determining a time distribution of the received user authentication events. The method further includes constructing based on the determination a content prioritization user model corresponding to the user associated with the user account. The method further includes receiving a content item associated with the user. The method further includes associating based on the content prioritization user model a content priority value with a content item. The content priority value corresponds to a predicted aspect of the user. The predicted aspect can be a predicted interest of the user in the content item or a predicted location corresponding to the user. The method further includes providing a prioritized content item for display. The prioritized content item is the content item prioritized based on the associated content priority value.

These and other embodiments can include one or more of the following features. Construction of the content prioritization user model can include selecting one or more decision variables from a plurality of decision variables. The construction can further include selecting one or more user model variables from a plurality of user model variables. A statistical model can be implemented based on the selected decision variable s and user model variable s . The statistical model can be trained based on a training set which includes tuples of the selected decision variable s and user model variable s .

Advantageously the subject technology allows content items to be prioritized based on a user s predicted preferences. Prioritization can increase the likelihood of a user s interest level in or engagement with the prioritized content items. Prioritization can also increase the relevance of a content item to the user. As an example of prioritization of content items within a website a news website containing news articles can be considered. The news articles can be prioritized and accordingly arranged based on a user s predicted preferences. For example news articles predicted to be of most interest to the user or related to the user s predicted residence location can be presented at the top of the news website.

It is understood that other configurations of the subject technology will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description wherein various configurations of the subject technology are shown and described by way of illustration. As will be realized the subject technology is capable of other and different configurations and its several details are capable of modification in various other respects all without departing from the scope of the subject technology. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative and not restrictive in nature.

The detailed description set forth below is intended as a description of various configurations of the subject technology and is not intended to represent the only configurations in which the subject technology may be practiced. The appended drawings are incorporated herein and constitute a part of the detailed description. The subject technology is not limited to the specific details set forth herein and may be practiced without these specific details.

It should be noted that the term online resource as used herein encompasses its plain and ordinary meaning including but not limited to any aspect of a computing device that can be leveraged by another computing device. As an example a website a service or an Application Programming Interface API may be considered online resources.

A user may have specific interests and may prefer to consume content related to those interests. Content can be prioritized for the user based on a listing of the user s interests. As an example in a case where the user provides a listing of interests e.g. in a user profile on a social networking website and that listing includes the user s favorite music band content related to that music band can be prioritized over content unrelated to that music band. The user s interests can also be ascertained based on content associated with the user. As an example the user s email messages can be processed to ascertain the user s interests.

The subject disclosure provides systems and techniques for prioritizing a content item for a user based on a content prioritization user model specific to that user. The systems and techniques described herein can also be used to prioritize content for a group of users based on the content prioritization user models of the underlying users. Similarly the systems and techniques described herein may be used to group users based on similarities between their content prioritization user models.

A content prioritization user model specific to a user can be constructed based on determining a time distribution e.g. a time distribution of a day of that user s user authentication events. User authentication events can include times at which the user conducts a transaction for example authentication with an online resource.

The term transaction as used herein encompasses its plain and ordinary meaning including but not limited to any aspect of an interaction between a first computing device e.g. a client computing device a server and an online resource that can be processed. A transaction can be account related for example authentication e.g. a log on using a username and password a log on using a token a log off establishment of a secure session and so on. The transaction can also be financial for example a purchase a transfer of funds a return and so on. Any authentication transactions associated with a user s user account can be a part of that user user s user authentication events.

The content prioritization user model can be used to predict various types of information specific to the user associated with the content prioritization user model. The types of information that can be predicted can include the user s interests preferences demographic profile residential locations e.g. current or past residential locations family structure life changes and so on. Based on the information predicted about the user by that user s content prioritization user model content priority values can be associated with content items. Content items can then be prioritized based on their respective associated content priority values. Content items that are prioritized based on their associated content priority values are referred to herein as prioritized content items.

In some implementations a user may grant permission to allow collection or use of user information e.g. user authentication events . Similarly in some implementations a user may be notified regarding the use of their information.

The client computing devices can be for example mobile computers tablet computers mobile devices e.g. a smartphone or PDA desktop computers set top boxes e.g. for a television video game consoles or any other devices having appropriate processing capabilities communications capabilities and memory. Each client computing device is configured to include an input device for accepting input from a user and an output device to display information to the user.

The client computing devices can be connected to the network . The network can include any one or more of a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a campus area network CAN a metropolitan area network MAN a wide area network WAN a broadband network BBN the Internet and the like. Further the network can include but is not limited to any one or more of the following network topologies including a bus network a star network a ring network a mesh network a star bus network tree or hierarchical network and the like.

The servers can be for example stand alone servers shared servers dedicated servers cluster grid servers e.g. a server farm or cloud servers. Each of the servers may include one or more processors communications modules and memory. The servers may be configured to distribute workload e.g. for loadbalancing across multiple servers.

The servers may provide a variety of online resources. For example the servers may host a website provide an Application Programming Interface API provide a service e.g. an authentication service a mail gateway and so on.

In the example illustrated in the client computing device and the server were in communication without the involvement of a third party online resource. That is the server was involved in communication that occurred after the initial authentication.

The client computing device includes an input device an output device a processor a communications module and memory . The input device can be a touchscreen a mouse a keyboard or any other device to enable a user to supply input to the client computing device . The output device can be a display screen. Input received via the input device can be processed locally on the client computing device or the server . The input can include keystrokes e.g. to provide authentication credentials mouse operations e.g. click double click right click touchscreen operations e.g. single touch and multi touch gestures and so on.

The client computing device is connected to the network via a communications module . The communications module is configured to interface with the network to send and receive information e.g. data requests responses and commands to other devices on the network . The communications module can be for example a modem or Ethernet card.

The memory includes a graphical user interface which allows a user to interact with the computing device or the server and can be used to display information to the user. The graphical user interface may be installed locally at the computing device or downloaded from the server . The memory further includes software instructions that can be read by the processor to enable interaction with the server . For example the software instructions can include an operating system or an application e.g. a web browser that can be processed by the processor . Data generated or stored at the client computing device can be stored as data .

The server includes a memory a processor and a communications module . The memory includes software instructions that can be read by the processor to implement a content prioritization module for prioritizing a content item for a user.

The content prioritization module receives user authentication events corresponding to a user account. A user is associated with the user account. The content prioritization module determines a time distribution e.g. a time distribution of a day of the received user authentication events. The content prioritization module constructs based on the determination a content prioritization user model corresponding to the user associated with the user account. The content prioritization module receives a content item associated with the user. The content prioritization module associates based on the content prioritization user model a content priority value with the content item. The content priority value corresponds to a predicted aspect of the user.

The server is connected to the network via a communications module . The communications module is configured to interface with the network to send and receive information e.g. data requests responses and commands to other devices on the network . The communications module can be for example a modem or Ethernet card.

The processor of the server is configured to execute instructions e.g. instructions physically coded into the processor instructions received from the memory or a combination of both. As an example the processor of the server executes instructions for prioritizing a content item for a user.

Once the instructions from the memory are loaded the processor is configured to execute the instructions to receive user authentication events corresponding to a user account. A user is associated with the user account. The received user authentication events correspond to authentication based on the user account to an online resource. The processor is further configured to determine a time distribution of the received user authentication events. The processor is further configured to construct based on the determination a content prioritization user model corresponding to the user associated with the user account. The processor is further configured to receive a content item associated with the user. The processor is further configured to associate based on the content prioritization user model a content priority value with a content item. The content priority value corresponds to a predicted aspect of the user.

In step user authentication events corresponding to a user account are received by a content prioritization module . A user is associated with the user account. The user s user authentication events may be received from various sources including for example an authentication server e.g. A providing an authentication service. In some instances an authentication service may be referred to as an identity service or an identity verification service. The authentication service may be cross platform. That is a user account based on the authentication service may be used for multiple online resources operated by unrelated entities.

In step the content prioritization module determines a time distribution of the received user authentication events. As an example the content prioritization module can determine the time distribution corresponding to a time of day day of week day of the month day of the year week of the month week of the year and so on. Similarly the content prioritization module can determine the time distribution with respect to business hours public holidays or any other temporal frame of reference. As an example the content prioritization module can calculate the user s frequency or time distribution of logging on to a particular online resource.

In step the content prioritization module constructs based on the determination of step a content prioritization user model corresponding to the user associated with the user account.

To construct the content prioritization user model one or more decision variables are selected from a number of possible decision variables. To illustrate the example of may be considered. In the example of the information about the user available to the authentication server A is limited to the identity of the online resource R and the time at which the authentication occurred. Because the user s interaction with the online resource R in this example includes only this limited information the decision variables are based on calculations with respect to time.

Thus when user authentication events are received as described in step the content prioritization module determines a time distribution of the user authentication events as described in step . The decision variables are therefore of a temporal nature. In this example the decision variables are a user account time distribution and a user account frequency.

To construct the content prioritization user model one or more user model variables are also selected from a number of possible user model variables. The user model variables can be the probabilities of various aspects of a user associated with the user model. For example user model variables can include a probability of the user s presence at a particular location e.g. a probability of the location of the user s residence. As another example of a probability of an aspect of the user associated with the user model the user model variables can also include a probability of the user s interest in a particular subject.

Based on the decision variable values and user model variable values a number of observation tuples can be used to develop a training set to train the content prioritization user model . Once the content prioritization user model is trained it can be used to predict various types of information specific to the user associated with that user model.

In step the content prioritization module receives a content item associated with the user. The content item may be received based on a request by the user or may be sent to the user regardless of whether the user has requested it. The content item may be considered to be associated with the user based on either being requested e.g. pulled by the user or based on being sent e.g. pushed to the user.

As an example of a content item requested by the user when the user clicks on an email inbox in a web based email service the user requests the contents of the inbox. That is the user requests email messages that are in the user s email inbox and therefore each of the email messages and any other information displayed to the user may be considered an example of a content item that has been requested.

Similarly when the user points a web browser to a website the user requests the contents of that website. For example if the user browses to a news website the user requests the news stories displayed e.g. in frames on the news website.

Requests for content items need not be explicitly generated or initiated by the user. For example a user s computing device may be configured to check the user s email at an interval. Based on that configuration email downloaded by the user s computing device may be considered requested by the user.

As an example of content that is sent to the user a user may receive emails from a number of senders. Each of those emails when they are received by the user s mail service may be considered content items that are sent to the user. Similarly content that is delivered to the user s computing device using push mechanisms may also be considered content that is sent to the user.

In step the content prioritization module associates based on the content prioritization user model a content priority value with the content item. The content priority value associated with content item corresponds to a predicted aspect of the user. Predicted aspects of a user can include for example the user s interests preferences demographic profile residential locations e.g. current or past residential locations family structure life changes and so on.

Once content priority values have been associated with respective content items the resulting prioritized content items can be provided for further processing. For example the resulting prioritized content items can be provided for display. As an example prioritized content items can be provided to a web server e.g. for display to a user within a web browser on that user s client computing device .

The content prioritization user model can be updated based on a user s user feedback. User feedback can be a reaction of a user in response to a content item e.g. a prioritized content item that has been prioritized for the user. A user s reaction can include clicking on a prioritized content item using a mouse pointer to hover over it dismissing closing it minimizing it and so on.

It should be noted that logistic regression has been selected as an example to provide context and several other statistical models or modeling approaches other than logistic regression may be used to construct the content prioritization user model .

The workflow of includes two conceptual parts a statistical model training flow and an interest or profile prediction flow . The statistical model training flow includes using a training set to follow a statistical model training procedure . Then by using model parameters a statistical model for predicting interests or profile of a user can be prepared. The interest or profile prediction flow includes providing a user s user authentication events to the statistical model and receiving estimated probabilities of a user s interest and locations. Providing a user s user authentication events can include applying the statistical model to the user s user authentication events.

As explained above in a statistical model e.g. decision variables and user model variables can be selected from a large group of possible variables and metrics. In this example the decision variables selected in the logistic regression model are the time distribution of a day of the user s user authentication events which include the mean and variance of the time of the user s user authentication events. The mean and variance of the frequency of the user s user authentication events are denoted by Z Z respectively. The user s user authentication event frequencies on specific online resources e.g. websites are denoted by X X X X X X . . . X X X. The user authentication event frequencies indicated by the second numeral in the subscript correspond to a 7 day average 30 day average and 1 year average respectively for online resources 1 through n or groups of online resources 1 through n.

That is X X and Xcorrespond to a 7 day average a 30 day average and a 1 year average respectively for a first online resource or a first group of online resources. Similarly X X and Xcorrespond to a 7 day average a 30 day average and a 1 year average respectively for a second online resource or a second group of online resources. The 7 day average 30 day average and 1 year average may be calculated for any number e.g. n of online resources.

In this example the user model variables in the logistic regression model are 1 the probabilities G G G. . . Gof the user s presence at locations 1 through m and 2 the probabilities P P P. . . Pof the user s interest in subjects 1 through s.

With respect to a user s presence at a location a single user may have a number of corresponding probabilities. For example the probabilities G G G. . . Gthat correspond to a user indicate the likelihood of that user s presence at a first location a second location a third location and so on for a number m of locations. Similarly with respect to interest in a subject a single user may have a number of corresponding probabilities. For example P P P. . . Pthat correspond to a user indicate the likelihood of that user s interest in a first subject a second subject a third subject and so on for a number s of subjects.

The parameters in this statistical model are and . Statistical learning algorithms e.g. logistic regression as used in this example can be used to train a user model and optimize the parameters in it such that different types or groups of users can be modeled for different probabilities of locations or interests.

A training set may be used to train the statistical model . A training set consists of a number of observation tuples for example decision variable values and user model variable values. In this example the decision variables include the user authentication event time distribution and frequencies and the user model variables include user feedback on the user s locations and interests.

A user s user authentication events can be provided to the statistical model to receive estimated probabilities of the user s interests and locations. That is the statistical model can be applied to a user s user authentication events to obtain a user s estimated probabilities of interests and locations.

Computer system e.g. client computing device server includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information and a processor e.g. processor processor coupled with bus for processing information. By way of example the computer system may be implemented with one or more processors . Processor may be a general purpose microprocessor a microcontroller a Digital Signal Processor DSP an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA a Programmable Logic Device PLD a controller a state machine gated logic discrete hardware components or any other suitable entity that can perform calculations or other manipulations of information.

Computer system can include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system or a combination of one or more of them stored in an included memory e.g. memory memory e.g. a Random Access Memory RAM a flash memory a Read Only Memory ROM a Programmable Read Only Memory PROM an Erasable PROM EPROM registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM a DVD or any other suitable storage device coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

The instructions may be stored in the memory and implemented in one or more computer program products i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a computer readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of the computer system and according to any method well known to those of skill in the art including but not limited to computer languages e.g. data oriented languages e.g. SQL dBase system languages e.g. C Objective C C Assembly architectural languages e.g. Java .NET and application languages e.g. PHP Ruby Perl Python . Instructions may also be implemented in computer languages e.g. array languages aspect oriented languages assembly languages authoring languages command line interface languages compiled languages concurrent languages curly bracket languages dataflow languages data structured languages declarative languages esoteric languages extension languages fourth generation languages functional languages interactive mode languages interpreted languages iterative languages list based languages little languages logic based languages machine languages macro languages metaprogramming languages multiparadigm languages numerical analysis non English based languages object oriented class based languages object oriented prototype based languages off side rule languages procedural languages reflective languages rule based languages scripting languages stack based languages synchronous languages syntax handling languages visual languages wirth languages embeddable languages and xml based languages. Memory may also be used for storing temporary variable or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor .

A computer program as discussed herein does not necessarily correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules subprograms or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network. The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output.

Computer system further includes a data storage device e.g. a magnetic disk or optical disk coupled to bus for storing information and instructions. Computer system may be coupled via input output module to various devices. The input output module can be any input output module. Examples of input output modules include data ports e.g. USB ports. The input output module is configured to connect to a communications module . Examples of communications modules e.g. communications module communications module include networking interface cards e.g. Ethernet cards and modems. In certain aspects the input output module is configured to connect to a plurality of devices e.g. an input device e.g. input device or an output device e.g. output device . Examples of input devices include a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which a user can provide input to the computer system . Other kinds of input devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well e.g. a tactile input device visual input device audio input device or brain computer interface device. For example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech tactile or brain wave input. Examples of output devices include display devices e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user.

According to one aspect of the present disclosure the client computing device can be implemented using a computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in memory . Such instructions may be read into memory from another machine readable medium e.g. data storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the sequences of instructions contained in memory . In alternative aspects hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement various aspects of the present disclosure. Thus aspects of the present disclosure are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Various aspects of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. The communication network e.g. network can include for example any one or more of a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a campus area network CAN a metropolitan area network MAN a wide area network WAN a broadband network BBN the Internet and the like. Further the communication network can include but is not limited to for example any one or more of the following network topologies including a bus network a star network a ring network a mesh network a star bus network tree or hierarchical network or the like. The communications modules can be for example modems or Ethernet cards.

Computing system can include client computing devices and servers. A client computing device and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client computing device and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. Computer system can be for example and without limitation a desktop computer laptop computer or tablet computer. Computer system can also be embedded in another device for example and without limitation a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio player a Global Positioning System GPS receiver a video game console or a television set top box.

The term machine readable storage medium or computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium or media that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks e.g. data storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory e.g. memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that include bus . Common forms of machine readable media include for example floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read. The machine readable storage medium can be a machine readable storage device a machine readable storage substrate a memory device a composition of matter effecting a machine readable propagated signal or a combination of one or more of them.

While this specification contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of particular implementations of the subject matter. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate implementations of the subject technology can also be implemented in combination in a single implementation. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single implementation can also be implemented in multiple implementations separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the aspects described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all aspects and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

The subject matter of this specification has been described in terms of particular aspects but other aspects can be implemented and are within the scope of the following claims. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. As one example the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Other variations are within the scope of the following claims.

