---

title: Authority delegation for business objects
abstract: A method relates to authority checks governing user access to business object attachments in a store of business object attachments. The business object attachments are semantically associated with business objects of one or more remote computer systems. The method includes, at a content management interface layer that is communicatively coupled to the store of business object attachments, sending a request for user authority checks on a parent business object of a business object attachment to an originating computer system and receiving results of the user authority checks from the originating computer system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08832856&OS=08832856&RS=08832856
owner: SAP AG
number: 08832856
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20120509
---
For security or other reasons e.g. managing loads a computer system may limit user access to data on the system or otherwise control user actions or operations on the system. Users may be authenticated and authorized to access only certain data or may be granted privileges to take only certain actions on the computer systems.

A computer system may use object oriented technology and may make processes and data available in the form of objects e.g. file and folder types . The computer system may deploy an access control list ACL based security model to govern authorization processes to grant users access to or privileges to manipulate e.g. read write copy delete etc. objects in the computer system. An ACL with respect to a computer file system is a list of permissions or authorizations attached to an object. An ACL specifies which users or system processes are authorized to access the objects and what operations are allowed on given objects. Each authority entry for an object in a typical ACL specifies a subject and an operation.

An organization may deploy a large computer system e.g. an enterprise resource planning system to integrate diverse business processes e.g. finance HR manufacturing warehouse etc. . Considerable effort can go into establishing business object authorities or ACL settings for user access to and user privileges for various actions on the diverse business objects in the large computer system. When a user requests access to or an action on an object in the computer system the computer system s operating system first checks the ACL for an applicable entry to decide whether the requested access or action is authorized. The user authorities or ACL settings that apply to business objects e.g. files or folders are also applicable to business object attachments a user s travel expense report or invoice when users seek access to or actions on them directly from the organization s computer system.

With emergence of new technologies such as cloud computing and increasing mobile consumption of computer applications users can seek access to or actions on business object attachments from computing environments other than the organization s computer system. There is a need is to simplify application of user authorities or ACL settings for user access to and actions on the business object attachments from the other computing environments.

In general security and authorization mechanisms which control access to operations or data in the computer systems can be both direct and indirect. A computing system may conduct direct security checks of user credentials or authorization profiles e.g. authentication identification codes IDs and passwords at an attachment interface or facility e.g. a log in screen at a firewall etc. before users can attach i.e. gain access to a resource e.g. individual files or data objects computer devices network connections computer programs applications and functionality provided by computer applications etc. of the computing system.

In one general aspect a method relates to authority checks governing user access to business object attachments or documents stored in a content management system. The stored business object attachments are semantically associated with business objects of remote computer systems. In one implementation of the method semantic terms e.g. object identifier object type identifier and originating system identifier are used to associate business object attachments with business objects of the remote computer systems.

In another general aspect the method utilizes a content management interface layer that is communicatively coupled to the content management system to mediate user authorization checks conducted by the remote computer systems for user access to business object attachments stored in the content management system. The method includes in response to receiving a request for authorization to access or manipulate a business object attachment from an external application user at the content management interface layer processing the request for authorization to identify an originating computer system of a parent business object of the business object attachment. The method further includes sending a request for and receiving results of user authority checks on the parent business object by the originating computer system at the content management interface layer. Sending the request for user authority checks the originating computer system includes sending semantic values of the object identifier and the object type identifier associated with the business object attachment to the originating computer system.

In one general aspect a system includes a content management interface layer communicatively coupled via a service provider interface to a store of business object attachments which are associated with parent business objects in one or more remote computer systems. The store includes object identifier object type identifier and originating system identifier information associated with the stored business object attachments.

In one aspect of the system the content management interface layer receives and process a request for authorization to access or manipulate a business object attachment from an external client or application. The content management interface layer uses an originating system identifier value associated with the business object attachment to identify an originating computer system of a parent business object of the business object attachment. The content management interface layer sends object identifier and object identifier values associated with the business object attachment with a request for user authority checks to a remote access interface of the originating computer system. The content management interface layer receives results of the requested user authority checks by the originating computer system and notifies the store of business object attachments if the request for authorization to access or manipulate the business object attachment from the external client or application is approved.

In one general aspect a non transitory computer readable medium includes instructions capable of being executed on a microprocessor to operate a content management interface layer that is communicatively coupled to a store of business object attachments associated with business objects of one or more remote computer systems. The instructions when executed allow the content management interface layer to process a request from an external client or application for authorization to access or manipulate a business object attachment. Further the instructions when executed on the microprocessor cause the content management interface layer to send object identifier and object identifier values associated with the business object attachment with a request for user authority checks on a parent business object of the business object attachment to an originating computer system of the business object attachment. The instructions when executed on the microprocessor further cause the content management interface layer to process results of user authority checks on the parent business object by the originating computer system and to notify the store of business object attachments if the request for authorization to access or manipulate the business object attachment from the external client or application is approved.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Further features of the disclosed subject matter its nature and various advantages will be more apparent from the accompanying drawings the following detailed description and the claims.

An authorities framework enables secure authorization of user access to and action on business object attachments in collaborative mobile or cloud computing scenarios. Business object attachments e.g. documents related to business objects of a first computer system e.g. an enterprise resource planning ERP system may be stored in a second computer system e.g. a content management system . Under the authorities framework business object authorities may be generically maintained at a central location e.g. in Access Control Lists ACL in the ERP system. Further under the authorities framework business semantics e.g. values for object identifier object type identifier and origin system identifier associated with the business object attachments may be stored in the content management system.

User authorization for user access to and action on the business object attachments stored in the content management system may be granted using business object authorities that may be defined and listed in the ERP system. The authorities framework by including business semantics e.g. values for object identifier object type identifier and origin system identifier in the stored business object attachments enables authorization processes for the content management system to be based on the business semantics. Mapping of business object authorities from the ERP system to technical Access Control Lists of the content management system can be avoided.

System includes a Business Object Repository which may be a part of a larger Enterprise Resource Planning system and a Content Management system coupled to an Enterprise Content Management Integration layer . System may be configured to authorize a remote client application which for example may be accessible through an Internet Browser to work on business object attachments e.g. documents that may be stored in Content Management System . System may be configured generate user authorizations to work on business object attachments stored in Content Management System based on business object authorities e.g. Access Control List that may be listed on the Enterprise Resource Planning system .

In Enterprise Resource Planning system various and diverse business processes and data may be represented as business objects e.g. business object . An example business object type may be SalesOrder which represents a customer s request to a company to supply a particular quantity of material at a certain point in time or to perform services at a certain point in time. An example business object i.e. an instance of the business object type SalesOrder may be a particular sales order . A business object may be described by its attributes. Sales order may be described for example by attributes such as Sold to party Sales organization Sale date Net value of order Currency of sales etc. In Enterprise Resource Planning system business object authorities for user access or actions on the business objects may be developed and stored in Access Control List . An example business object authority for the business object sales order that may be stored in Access Control List may for example be User Sales manager is allowed to see sales orders of a certain sales organization.

The business objects in Enterprise Resource Planning system may be of different generic types e.g. vendors leads customers sales orders financial documents etc. that are identified by unique object and object type identifiers. In system Business Object Repository may provide interfaces e.g. application programming interface API to the business objects of Enterprise Resource Planning system . Business Object Repository may further provide a remote interface e.g. remote function call access to receive user requests for authority checks for business object instances that are identified by unique object and object type identifiers. Users may call authority modules in Enterprise Resource Planning system for authority checks on the different business objects and object types via the interfaces provided by Business Object Repository . The authorities for business object instances and their particular attributes may be evaluated by the authority modules and the evaluations may be passed back to the users via the interfaces .

In system a business object attachment e.g. attachment may be a document e.g. an invoice a contract a quality control report etc. which may be logically attached to a business object in an application. The attachment may provide documentation e.g. transactional information or quality data for the process in which the business object is involved. The attachment may be generally available when users access or browse the business object in Enterprise Resource Planning system .

Creating an attachment to a business object e.g. business object may involve using an attachment service within Business Object Repository . The business object attachments e.g. documents created within Business Object Repository may be stored in an external repository for example in Content Management system . The business object attachments may be stored along with associated metadata or properties that further describe the document. Further under the authorities framework of this disclosure Business Object Repository may provide business semantics or business object information e.g. object identifier object type identifier and origin system identifier to be associated with or stored with the business object attachment in Content Management system . shows an example attachment e.g. attachment which includes associated values for object identifier object type identifier and origin system identifier stored in Content Management system .

Further in system Enterprise Content Management Integration ECMI layer may connect or couple document repositories of various content management systems e.g. Content Management system by means of a service provider interface SPI . ECMI layer may further expose these document repositories to an external application e.g. application through a unified Application Programming Interface API . API may provide methods to manipulate e.g. read write delete content and metadata in the connected content management systems e.g. Content Management system . In addition API may provide methods to call remote authority interface of Business Object Repository and provide methods to evaluate the business object authorities on the content e.g. attachment in Content Management system sought to be accessed or manipulated by the external application e.g. application .

With reference to it will be noted that client application may be an external client or application outside of Enterprise Resource Planning system and Content Management system . Client application may for example be an application hosted on a mobile device or an application hosted in a computing cloud. Client application may communicate directly with API of ECMI layer for example via wire or wireless links. In particular client application may communicate directly with API of ECMI layer with regard to authorities for access to or for manipulating business object attachment stored on Content Management system .

Method may begin in response to an external client or application sending a document manipulation authorization request to an enterprise content management interface ECMI layer coupled to the content management system . Sending the document manipulation authorization request may include sending the document manipulation authorization request to an application programming interface API of the ECMI layer. The document manipulation authorization request may be a request for authorization to manipulate e.g. read write delete copy etc. a business object attachment or document e.g. attachment that has been already retrieved by the external client or application e.g. application . Sending the document manipulation authorization request may include sending business semantics identifying the retrieved business object attachment or document in the request. The business semantics included in the document manipulation authorization request may for example include values e.g. object identifier object type identifier and origin system identifier values that may uniquely identify the parent business object of the retrieved business object attachment or document.

In method sending a document manipulation authorization request may further include sending user credentials required for authentication with the request. The user credentials included in the document manipulation authorization request may include credentials that are required by the user authentication algorithms deployed by the ERP system. The user credentials may include for example one or more of a user id passcodes public or private security keys certificates or other items that may be required to authenticate the user.

Method further includes processing of the received business semantics values at the ECMI layer to identify an originating ERP system of the parent business object of the subject business object attachment or document . The processing of the received business semantics values may for example identify the originating ERP system from the value of the origin system identifier included in the document manipulation authorization request. Further the processing of the received business semantics values may include obtaining connection parameters for connecting to the remote ERP system based on the origin system identifier value.

Method further includes sending an authority checks request from the ECMI layer to the originating ERP system for authority checks on the parent business object of the retrieved business object attachment or document . The ECMI layer may forward the request for example to a remote authentication interface e.g. remote function call access of the originating ERP system. The request from the ECMI layer to the originating ERP system may include object attributes e.g. object identifier and object type identifier values that were included in the client or application s document manipulation authorization request. The request from the ECMI layer to the originating ERP system may also include user credentials e.g. user id found in or associated with the client or application s document manipulation authorization request.

In response to the authority checks request from the ECMI layer method may include conducting authority checks on the ERP system for the parent business object which is referenced in the client or application s document manipulation authorization request . The ERP system may for example conduct authority checks based on object attributes and user credentials included in the authority checks request forwarded by the ECMI layer to the remote authentication interface of the ERP system. The remote authentication interface receiving the request from the ECMI layer may for example pass forward values for object identifier object type identifier and user id to an authority check module in the ERP system. The authority check module may evaluate or compare the forwarded object identifier object type identifier and user id values with business object authorities e.g. ACL stored in the ERP system. The authority check module may return results of the authority checks i.e. grant or denial of authority to the remote authentication interface of the ERP system which in turn may send the results of the authority checks to the ECMI layer . The remote authentication interface of the ERP system may for example send the results of authority checks i.e. grant or denial of authority via a return call from the ERP system to the API of the ECMI layer.

Method may include processing at the ECMI layer of the results of the authority checks received from the ERP system . In the case of denial of authority by the ERP system processing of the results by the ECMI layer may include sending a denial or error notification to the client or application initiating the document manipulation authorization request. Conversely in the case of a grant of authority by the ERP system processing of the results by the ECMI layer may include sending a grant or approval notification to the client or application initiating the document manipulation authorization request and sending notification of the approved document manipulation authorization request e.g. via a service provider interface to the content management system. The content management system may in response allow the client or application to manipulate the document as approved.

Method may begin in response to an external client or application sending a query request to an enterprise content management interface ECMI layer of the content management system for access to business object attachments . The query request may include user credentials required for user authentication. The user credentials included in the query request may include credentials that are required by the user authentication algorithms deployed by the ERP system. The user credentials may include for example one or more of a user id passcodes public or private security keys certificates or other items that are required to authenticate the user.

In method in response to the external client or application s query request the ECMI layer may fetch object information associated with all business object attachments stored in the content management system . In particular the ECMI layer may fetch object identifier object type identifier and origin system identifier values in the metadata of the business object attachments stored in the content management system.

Further method may include processing of the fetched object information at the ECMI layer to identify the originating ERP system s of parent business objects for the business object attachments stored in the content management system . Processing of the fetched object information may for example identify the originating ERP system s from the values of the origin system identifiers included the fetched object information. Further processing of the fetched object information may include obtaining connection parameters for connecting to remote ERP system s based on the values of origin system identifiers included the fetched object information.

It will be noted that the origin system identifier values included the fetched object information may show that business object attachments originated from a single ERP system or from multiple ERP systems. In the case that the business object attachments originated from multiple originating ERP systems method may further involve sorting or segregating the fetched object information by individual originating ERP system. Further elements and processes of method for authority checks may be carried out in the same or similar manner for each of the multiple originating ERP systems one by one using the sorted or segregated fetched object information. For convenience in description the further elements and processes of method for authority checks may be described herein for the case of business object attachments originating from a single ERP system. It will be understood that method elements and processes for authority checks may be repeated individually one by one for the other originating ERP systems and that results of method for authority checks by individual ERP systems can be combined at suitable junctures in the method.

With renewed reference to method further includes sending an authority checks request from the ECMI layer to the originating ERP system for authority checks on the business object attachments stored in the content management system . The authority checks request to the originating ERP system may include object identifier and object type identifier values found in the fetched object information for the business object attachments. The authority checks request may also include the user credentials e.g. user id associated with or included in the client or application s query request. The ECMI layer may forward the request for example to a remote authentication interface e.g. remote function call access of the ERP system.

It will be understood that the authority checks request sent from the ECMI layer to the originating ERP system may be a single request for authorization checks on all of the business object attachments stored in the content management system. Alternatively the authority checks request sent from the ECMI layer to the originating ERP system may be broken up into a series of sub requests for one by one authorization checks on individual business object attachments or individual batches of the business object attachments. A maximum size of a batch of the business object attachments referenced in a sub request for authorization checks may be related for example to a data handling capacity of the remote authentication interface e.g. remote function call access of the ERP system to receive and process data arrays e.g. of object identifier and object type identifier values which may be included in the sub request at one time.

In response to the authority checks request sent from the ECMI layer method may include conducting authority checks on the ERP system . The ERP system may for example conduct the authority checks for each business object attachment based on object attributes e.g. object identifier and object type identifier values included in the authority checks request sent from the ECMI layer. The remote authentication interface of the ERP system receiving the authority checks request from the ECMI layer may for example pass forward values for object identifiers object type identifiers and user id to an authority check module in the ERP system. The authority check module may evaluate or compare the forwarded values for object identifier object type identifier and user id for each business object attachment with business object authorities e.g. ACL stored in the ERP system s The authority check module may return results of the evaluation i.e. grant or denial of authority for each business object attachment to the remote authentication interface of the ERP system which in turn may send the results of the authority checks to the ECMI layer . The remote authentication interface of the ERP system may for example send the results of authority checks i.e. grant or denial of authority via return call s from the ERP system to the API of the ECMI layer.

Method may further include processing the results of the authority checks for the business object attachments received from the ERP system at the ECMI layer and notifying . In the case of a grant of authority for all business object attachments by the ERP system processing the results of the authority checks received from the ERP system at the ECMI layer may include sending a grant or approval notification to the client or application initiating the query request and sending notification of the approved query authorization request to the content management system e.g. via a service provider interface . The content management system may in response process the client or application s query and report the query results to the client or application.

Conversely in the case of denial of authority for one or more business object attachments by the ERP system processing of the results at the ECMI layer may include sending a denial or error notification to the client or application initiating the query request. Alternatively in the case of partial grant of authority i.e. grant of authority for some of the business object attachments and denial of authority for other of the business object attachments processing of the results at the ECMI layer may include reporting the partial grant of authority to the content management system. The content management system may in response process the client or application s query to cover only those business object attachments for which there are grants of authority and report filtered query results i.e. excluding business object attachments for which there are denials of authority to the client or application.

The various techniques described herein may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Implementations may implemented as a computer program product i.e. a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device or in a propagated signal for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus e.g. a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers. A computer program such as the computer program s described above can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

Method steps may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method steps also may be performed by and an apparatus may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. Elements of a computer may include at least one processor for executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer also may include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. Information carriers suitable for embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory may be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations may be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a cathode ray tube CRT or liquid crystal display LCD monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

Implementations may be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation or any combination of such back end middleware or front end components. Components may be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

While certain features of the described implementations have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the scope of the embodiments.

