---

title: Rule-based content filter
abstract: Rule-based content filter is described, including receiving from a user an indication of an attempted posting of content to a target, wherein the attempted posting of the content by the user comprises at least one item provided by the user for display on a website to the target; selecting a rule associated with the user, wherein the rule is selected based on at least one of the content of the attempted posting and an identity of the target; applying the rule to the attempted posting to determine whether a condition applies, the condition relating to whether the attempted posting complies with the rule; when the condition applies, posting to the target; and when the condition does not apply, providing an indication to the user that the attempted post does not comply with the rule.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09563874&OS=09563874&RS=09563874
owner: GOOGLE INC.
number: 09563874
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120614
---
The subject matter discussed herein relates generally to data processing and more particularly to a rule based content filter.

Users may assume more than one role in the physical world as well as in online virtual communities. For example a user Jon may assume the roles of son grandson husband father teacher former college student current graduate student hiker beer collector traveler member of an aviation club politician etc.

Jon may communicate and share content with other users online such as on a social network or an email communication system. Jon may group users with whom he communicates in social graphs such as circles or groups based on one or more criteria. For example Jon may group users who are his family members in a Family circle. Jon may group users who are his students in a Students circle or a Teaching circle. Jon may create an Aviation circle for users with like interests. For example the users in the Aviation circle that Jon creates may predominantly include his former university colleagues e.g. alumni who may be friends. Additionally the Aviation circle that Jon creates may also include his students and members of his family e.g. relatives .

Due to the number of circles and users that Jon has created it may be difficult for Jon to continually remember the members of his circles or groups. Accordingly unintentional posting or sharing of content that is inappropriate for a particular group may occur when Jon cannot remember all of the members of that group. For example Jon may freely express himself to the users in the Aviation circle that are mature users using language that may be considered inappropriate to family members and students who are part of the Aviation circle.

A rule based content filter is described. The subject matter includes at least a computing device a computer product and a method for receiving from a user an indication of an attempted posting of content to a target wherein the attempted posting of the content by the user comprises at least one item provided by the user for display on a website to the target selecting a rule associated with the user wherein the rule is selected based on at least one of the content of the attempted posting and an identity of the target applying the rule to the attempted posting to determine whether a condition applies the condition relating to whether the attempted posting complies with the rule when the condition applies posting to the target and when the condition does not apply providing an indication to the user that the attempted post does not comply with the rule. The rule may be created manually or automatically.

The subject matter described herein is taught by way of example embodiments. Various details have been omitted for the sake of clarity and to avoid obscuring the subject matter. Examples shown below are directed to structures and functions for implementing a rule based content filter.

Example embodiments are described that enable users to share or post desired content to the desired audience. For example users may be prevented from unintentional posting of content e.g. language that might be considered foul images that might be considered offensive political or religious commentary that might be considered insensitive or inflammatory etc. to the undesired audience. The users interactions and or communications with other users are guarded to prevent reputation hits or embarrassing content leaks.

Users do not need to remember who is for example in each of their social media audience groupings e.g. circles when sharing or posting content. Mechanisms such as user interfaces are provided for users to specify rules that will help the user in channeling the right content to the right audience and preventing the wrong content to be posted to the wrong audience.

For example a user may generate a rule effectively indicates that the user does not wish to post potentially offensive language or photographs to a specific family member. As another example the user may specify another rule that effectively indicates that the user does not wish to share content relating to the certain personal hobbies or interests to the coworkers circle.

In some example embodiments rules may be automatically generated. For example the user s historical or previous posting or sharing of content may be analyzed e.g. by a machine learning process to generate the rules.

At the time the user posts or attempts to post or share something e.g. content with some target audience one or more rules may be identified and applied based on the content and or based on the target. When the rule conditions are met for posting the content the content is allowed to post to the target audience.

However when the rule conditions are not met for posting the content the content is blocked from posting to the target audience. In some example embodiments a warning message e.g. the post might contain inappropriate content for the given target audience may be provided to the user. The user may be given one or more opportunities to override the blockage. If the User Overrides the Blockage e.g. the User has Shown an Intent to Post the Content to the target audience the content is allowed to post to the target audience.

An example of one or more devices may be computing device described below in . Devices may include but are not limited to a computer e.g. personal or commercial a device in a vehicle a mobile device e.g. smartphone or tablet a television with one or more processors embedded therein and or coupled thereto a mobile computer a server or desktop computer computing devices storage devices . Any of devices may access one or more services from and or provide one or more services to one or more devices shown in environment and or devices not shown in environment .

A user may post content using for example a device to one or more users who may be receiving the content using devices and . The content may be checked or determined for appropriateness for posting by a service provided on device using one or more rules retrieved from storage device or . The content may be determined to be acceptable for posting to some users and not acceptable for posting to other users based on the rules. In the latter situation a warning or overriding mechanism may be provided to the user.

For example block may provide existing or saved email messages other communication history and or historical postings that identify a correlation between the content or subject matter of the content of the postings with respect to target information e.g. recipient users and or circles . Data provided at may be associated with one or more sources or services e.g. email and or other communication channels that may be the same as and or different from the service that uses the rules generated from the data.

At block the provided data from block are used to generate one or more rules based on the correlation. For example but not by way of limitation a historical posting posted by the user may include content directed to the subject of beer drinking e.g. discussion of beer drinking or images that include beer and people posted to a Micro Brewer circle of users. Another historical posting by the user may include content directed to the subject of air shows or airplanes e.g. discussion of the subject or images directed to air shows or airplanes to an Aviation circle of users. In some example embodiments feedback from and or may be incorporated in rule generation.

After receiving and correlating e.g. learning from such historical postings one or more rules may be generated or suggested. For example Rule 1 may be generated directed to correlating the subject or keyword of beer drinking with the Micro Brewer circle of users e.g. it is appropriate to post content that includes the subject of beer or beer drinking to any user in the Micro Brewer circle . Rule 2 may be generated directed to correlating the subject or keywords of air shows or airplanes with the Aviation circle of users and not with the Micro Brewer circle of users.

In some example embodiments Rule 1 may specify that the subject or keyword of beer drinking is not correlated with the Aviation circle of users e.g. it is inappropriate to post content involving the subject of beer or beer drinking to any user in the Aviation circle .

In some example embodiments rules e.g. Rule 1 and Rule 2 are generated in association with a user. For example the user may login to a service or otherwise identify himself or herself to a service provider. Information provided in block is information associated with the user e.g. the user s postings of content and the user s recipients and target information . Rules generated using the information are associated with the user e.g. for applying to the user s future postings or attempted postings .

In some example embodiments block and may be bypassed based on implementation. In other example embodiments at block a generated rule may undergo acceptability determination based on implementation. For example the acceptability of Rule 1 and or Rule 2 may be determined automatically by system or determined based on user input.

If a rule is not determined to be acceptable at block the results may be provided as feedback to block . Block may change e.g. regenerate the unaccepted rule based on the feedback and or learn from the feedback to for example fine tune rules generation. If a rule is determined to be acceptable at block the rule is provided at block to process new posting or sharing of content.

For example a user may attempt to post or share content to one or more users and or circles target or recipient at . The attempt to post or share content may include text based content e.g. text messages and or media based content e.g. images photos videos audio etc. . At a determination is performed to confirm the appropriateness of the attempted posting by applying one or more rules provided by . One or more rules that are to be applied at are determined and selected based on the content that the user attempts to post or share. The rules which are associated with the user are applied prior to execution of the attempted post or sharing.

In one example the content the user is attempting to post contains subject matter that includes beer or beer drinking. Rule 1 e.g. correlating the subject or keyword of beer drinking with the Micro Brewer circle of users associated with the user may be selected based on the content e.g. the content triggers Rule 1 . In this example the target e.g. recipients includes User A who is included in the Micro Brewer circle and User B who is not included in the Micro Brewer circle. A service provider may e.g. at block determine the appropriateness of posting the content e.g. beer or beer drinking subject matter to User A and User B using Rule 1. Since User A is in the Micro Brewer circle satisfying Rule 1 at block the attempted posting of the content to User A is executed e.g. allowed to proceed at block e.g. the post to User A is appropriate and accepted thus executing the posting .

However since User B is not in the Micro Brewer circle the attempted posting is not accepted at based on Rule 1 e.g. the attempted post by the user to User B is determined to be inappropriate with Rule 1 . As a result the attempted posting may be blocked e.g. not executed . In some example embodiments the user who is attempting to post the content to User B may be provided with an indication at block that warns the user that content in his or her attempted post that is directed to beer drinking may not be appropriate for posting to User B. The user may be given an option to override the warning not shown and proceed to execute the posting of the content to User B.

In another example the user may be attempting to post an image of new airplanes to User A and User B. User B is included in the Aviation circle but User A is not. Rule 2 e.g. correlating the subject or keywords of air shows or airplanes with the Aviation circle of users associated with the user may also be selected based on the target information e.g. the User B being in the Aviation circle triggers Rule 2 . At block Rule 2 is applied to determine the appropriateness of posting the subject matter of airplanes to User A and User B.

Since User A is not in the Aviation circle the attempted posting to User A is not accepted at . A warning may be provided to the user at for example indicating a reason why the attempted posting fails. On the other hand since User B is in the Aviation circle the attempted posting to User B is accepted at and the attempted posting is executed to post the image of new airplanes to User B at block .

In some example embodiments a rule may be generated as a whitelist rule. A whitelist rule allows the posting of subject matters associated with the rule only to recipients associated with the rule. For example Rule 3 may be generated as a whitelist rule for correlating content that involves hugging with the Family circle. As such content which involves hugging may only be allowed to post to a user who is in the Family circle. An attempted posting of content which involves hugging to User C who is not in the Family circle is not accepted unless there is another rule also applicable and having a higher or overriding precedent .

In other example embodiments a rule may be generated as a blacklist rule. A blacklist rule allows the posting of subject matters associated with the rule only to recipients not associated with the rule. For example Rule 4 may be generated as a blacklist rule for correlating content that involves cussing with the Professional circle. As such content which involves cussing may be allowed to post to a user only if that user is not in the Professional circle. An attempted posting of content which involves cussing to User C who is not in the Professional circle is accepted unless there is another rule also applicable and having a higher or overriding precedent .

In some example embodiments there may be two or more rules applicable to an attempted posting. For example one rule may be selected based on the content. The content may involve two or more subject matters with two or more associated rules. A content based rule may be a whitelist rule a blacklist rule or there may be both e.g. whitelist and backlist based on content. Another rule may be selected based on a recipient. A recipient based rule may be a whitelist rule a blacklist rule or there may be both e.g. whitelist and backlist based on a recipient.

When two or more rules are applicable to an attempted posting depending on implementation precedent priority score and or other deciding mechanisms may be used to aid in selecting and or applications of the rules.

In some further example embodiments the user who is attempting to post may be given an option to update and or fine tune the rule base e.g. Rule 1 and or 2 . The user may fine tune the application of the rule base by verifying or correcting a determination based on the rule. For example the user may fine tune Rule 1 to account for a situation where the rule has been triggered based on an incorrect determination at that the content of the attempted post includes beer. More specifically the user may fine tune the rule to distinguish between a can of soda having labeling e.g. text of image that may appear similar to a beer label or image and thus be characterized by the rule base as a can of beer. 

The user s input in fine tuning rules and or application of rules may be provided as feedback to use in rules generation e.g. feedback from block to . Further updating may be performed on one or more accepted rules not shown so as to fine tune its image detection process described in more detail in and or perform other improvements or machine learning techniques.

Generating rules with media based content at block includes processing the media to generate keywords at block . In some example embodiments the media may be images and or videos. Videos may be processed as a series of images.

Keywords may be generated in any fashion known to one skilled in the art. Keywords generation may involve processing information from one or more sources or channels. For example one channel of information may be the photo data itself e.g. the image . Another channel of information may be the photo meta data e.g. camera type the location of the photo exposure and aperture settings the time of day and the recipient list etc. . Other channels of information may be any information associated with an image. For example if an image is posted on a website for certain users to view or access information about the website and or the certain users may be included in the processing for keywords.

One example generation of keywords or annotations from an image itself may be dividing the image e.g. a 1000 800 pixels image into regions e.g. regions of 10 10 pixels and performing image processing or recognition on the regions. For example the shape of a glass may be detected in one region a beer can bottle or label e.g. Beer may be detected in another region a balloon may be detected from a third region etc. When all the objects or keywords are detected from an image collectively or individually these keywords may be used in creating rules e.g. in block .

The same or different image processing techniques may be used in applying rules to determine the acceptability of attempted postings e.g. block . For example when a user attempts to post an image with a bottle of beer in the image the bottle of beer may be detected as described above or in a different manner to select a rule associated with the user that involves beer or drinking to determine the appropriateness of posting.

With keywords generated or extracted from images the keywords are associated with recipients to generate one or more rules. At block recipients or target information may be provided e.g. by a user and or extracted from other sources. For example using historical postings of images e.g. posting of the image of beer drinking the target information of the historical postings may be processed and recipients extracted. For example the beer drinking image may be posted to one or more users in a Micro Brewer circle or to the Micro Brewer circle itself. With the target information the users and or Micro Brewer circle may be extracted.

At block machine learning may be used to generate one or more rules e.g. Rule 1 . For example a machine e.g. processing unit based on the extracted keywords of beer and drinking and target information e.g. the Micro Brewer circle may learn that the subject matters of beer and or drinking may be posted to the Micro Brewer circle or any user in that circle.

Table in shows that for example scores may be saved associated with users based on the learning. For example with just one beer drinking posted to the user of grandma a score of 1 may be kept or assigned on row column .

More keywords from and recipients from may be provided to block to generate rules. For example there may be a few more images that involve beer drinking and some of these images may involve other subject matters or keywords . Some of these images may have been posted to the users Joe and Terry or circles which Joe and or Terry is a member of with Terry being as a recipient more frequent than Joe. Being as more frequent recipients the grandma Joe and Terry rows respectively are assigned higher scores than grandma. The example table shows that Joe is assigned a 7 and Terry is assigned an 8.7. 

Table in shows that for example scores may be saved with circles of users based on the machine learning. There may be many more images of beer and or drinking posted to the Micro Brewer circle than in the College and Family circles with the Family circle being the recipient in the least. The scores of 9.5 7.9 and 2 are for example assigned to the Micro Brewer College and Family circles respectively in rows .

The scores in tables and may be used for example in block to determine the appropriateness of posting or attempted posting of content. The scores may be used with one or more threshold values. For example an implementation may use a threshold of 5 any value may be used .

In an attempt by a user to post a beer or drinking photo to the user grandma the above described image detection techniques may be used to detect that the image involves beer and or drinking e.g. extracted the keywords beer and or drinking . A rule e.g. Rule 1 may be selected based on the content or recipient. Table may be consulted and found that on row beer associated with grandma has a score of 1 . Block determines that 1 is less than 5 and the attempted posting is not accepted at .

In some example embodiments a warning e.g. It looks like you do not typically share this type of photo with grandma are you sure you wanted to share this photo with grandma and or user options may be provided. For example one option may be allowing the user to click on Yes go ahead and post e.g. post the beer drinking image to grandma .

On the other hand if the recipient is Joe and or Terry with a score of 7 and or 8.7 respectively being above the threshold of 5 would be determined at to be appropriate and accepted at for posting.

Returning to . The process of generating rules with text based content provided at is similar to the process of generating rules with media based content. Keywords from the text based content are extracted using text processing techniques known to one skilled in the art. The recipients target information as described above may be extracted or processed from historical postings of the text based content e.g. extract the recipients of a sent email message .

Similarly scores may be kept and or assigned for recipients or circles based on the historical text based content postings. Application of rules is as described above. In some example embodiments rules created from historical text based content may be distinguished from rules created from historical media based content. Scores associated with the different types of historical content may be kept separately and or applied differently. For example scores associated with media based content may be given different weight than scores associated with text based content.

A user may provide define or specify information e.g. the keywords keyword groups filtering actions and or target information using a user interface not shown . For example the user interface may include but is not limited to widgets e.g. a text box selection box etc. with which a user can input one or more keywords filtering actions and or target information.

A keyword may be any word or combination of words e.g. beer or drinking or hang out etc. . Target information is recipient information e.g. users circles a combination thereof etc. as described above . Filtering actions may be for example blocked from or published only to the identified target user or circles of target users. These are only two examples of filtering actions. A user may define provide or select a predefined filtering action not shown to be performed when a defined rule is triggered. For example ignore ignore and warn apply Rule X update score and post etc.

For example and not by way of limitation a user may input the keyword of beer drinking select the Micro Brewer circle of users as target information and select the filtering action publish only to. In another example a user may input the keyword beer drinking select as target information the Aviation circle of users and select the filtering action blocked from. 

In some example embodiments the user may group two or more keywords into a keyword group. For example the keywords cat dog fish and bird may be grouped into a pet keyword group. As another example keywords that identify profanity swearing cursing dirty words bad words bad or foul language cussing etc. may be grouped into a cussing or do not cuss group. Any identifier or combination of characters may be used as a keyword group label. These are only two examples. A user may group any keywords related keywords or arbitrary or unrelated keywords into keyword groups.

In some example embodiments a keyword group may be implemented and or used as if it is a keyword. Table in shows that for example scores may be associated with circles of users based on keyword group e.g. Do not cuss . For example based on user provided information e.g. keyword group Do not cuss and or keywords in that group filtering actions and target information one or more rules may be created that result in the scores shown in rows of table . The scores of 9.5 3 and 7 are for example assigned to the Professional College and Family circles respectively in rows .

After receiving and recognizing the user specified correlation between the user provided keywords and or keyword groups target information and filtering actions one or more rules may be generated and or recorded e.g. Rule 1 Rule 2 Rule 3 and or other rules . For example to create a whitelist rule the filtering action published only to may be selected.

To create a blacklist the filtering action blocked from may be selected. For example Rule 3 may be defined as inappropriate to post content involving the subject beer or beer drinking to any user in the Aviation circle based on the recognized user specified correlation between the user provided keyword beer drinking the user specified target information Aviation circle of users and the user selected filtering action blocked from. 

In some example embodiments user based rules e.g. rules created with flow and rules generated by machine learning e.g. rules created with flow may be used at the same time. After rules are created the rules may be applied or used as described above.

For example widgets for generating rule include a widget for the user to provide or change the target information. Target information may be any combination of target e.g. one or more users and or one or more circles etc. . UI includes a widget for the user to provide or change an operator that links the keyword s to content e.g. content to be processed . Example operators may include but are not limited to contains does not contain contains similar etc.

UI includes a widget for the user to provide or change one or more keywords and a widget for the user to provide or change one or more filtering actions. Example filtering actions are described above but are not limited to the described filtering actions. UI widgets for entering rule shows that a rule may be based on one or more keyword groups e.g. Do not cuss . In some example embodiments a rule not shown may be based on a combination of one or more keywords and one or more keyword groups.

Here user JonJ is attempting to post content to the users in his Bosses circle. Based on the content e.g. based on his comment and or share information the target information e.g. the Bosses circle or both one or more rule may be identified selected and applied to determine the appropriateness of JonJ s attempted posting. For example a profanity e.g. foul language is detected from comment and the Do not cuss keyword group is identified based on the profanity. The appropriateness determination in this example results in not accepting the attempted posting as indicated by the warning .

In some example embodiments JonJ may be given one or more choices to handle the warning not shown . For example there may be an overriding mechanism e.g. an Ignore the warning Continue to post button for JonJ to bypass or ignore the warning and post content to the Bosses circle. The use of the overriding mechanism may provide feedback on the applied rules to enhance the applied rules the applications of rules the score tables other rules and or new rules generation. For example there may be scores kept for example in table for the six users associated with cussing. The feedback from activating the overriding mechanism may change their scores in the table affecting future application of rules associated with cussing. 

In some examples process may be implemented with different fewer or more steps. Process may be implemented as computer executable instructions which can be stored on a medium loaded onto one or more processors of one or more computing devices and executed as a computer implemented method.

Computing device can be communicatively coupled to input user interface and output device interface . Either one or both of input user interface and output device interface can be a wired or wireless interface and can be detachable. Input user interface may include any device component sensor or interface physical or virtual that can be used to provide input e.g. buttons touch screen interface keyboard a pointing cursor control microphone camera braille motion sensor optical reader and or the like . Output device interface may include a display television monitor printer speaker braille and or the like. In some example embodiments input user interface and output device interface can be embedded with or physically coupled to the computing device . In other example embodiments other computing devices may function as or provide the functions of input user interface and output device interface for a computing device .

Examples of computing device may include but are not limited to highly mobile devices e.g. smartphones devices in vehicles and other machines devices carried by humans and animals and the like mobile devices e.g. tablets notebooks laptops personal computers portable televisions radios and the like and devices not designed for mobility e.g. desktop computers other computers information kiosks televisions with one or more processors embedded therein and or coupled thereto radios and the like .

Computing device can be communicatively coupled e.g. via I O interface to external storage and network for communicating with any number of networked components devices and systems including one or more computing devices of the same or different configuration. Computing device or any connected computing device can be functioning as providing services of or referred to as a server client thin server general machine special purpose machine or another label.

I O interface can include but is not limited to wired and or wireless interfaces using any communication or I O protocols or standards e.g. Ethernet 802.11x Universal System Bus WiMax modem a cellular network protocol and the like for communicating information to and or from at least all the connected components devices and networks in computing environment . Network can be any network or combination of networks e.g. the Internet local area network wide area network a telephonic network a cellular network satellite network and the like .

Computing device can use and or communicate using computer usable or computer readable media including transitory media and non transitory media. Transitory media include transmission media e.g. metal cables fiber optics signals carrier waves and the like. Non transitory media include magnetic media e.g. disks and tapes optical media e.g. CD ROM digital video disks Blu ray disks solid state media e.g. RAM ROM flash memory solid state storage and other non volatile storage or memory.

Computing device can be used to implement techniques methods applications processes or computer executable instructions to implement at least one embodiment e.g. a described embodiment . Computer executable instructions can be retrieved from transitory media and stored on and retrieved from non transitory media. The executable instructions can be originated from one or more of any programming scripting and machine languages e.g. C C C Java Visual Basic Python Perl JavaScript and others .

Processor s can execute under any operating system OS not shown in a native or virtual environment. To implement a described embodiment one or more applications can be deployed that include logic unit application programming interface API unit input unit output unit keywords unit rules unit posting unit and inter unit communication mechanism for the different units to communicate with each other with the OS and with other applications not shown . For example one or more of keywords unit rules unit and posting unit may implement one or more processes or data flows shown in . The described units and elements can be varied in design function configuration or implementation and are not limited to the descriptions provided.

In some example embodiments when information or an execution instruction is received by API unit it may be communicated to one or more other units e.g. logic unit input unit output unit keywords unit rules unit and posting unit . For example after input unit has detected an attempted posting from a user input unit may use API unit to communicate the attempted posting to keywords unit to extract or generate one or more keywords from the content of the attempted posting. Logic unit may direct rules unit to identify and or select one or more rules based on the keywords or target of the attempted posting. Rules unit may communicate via API unit with posting unit to determine the appropriateness of the attempted posting based on the selected rules.

In some examples logic unit may be configured to control the information flow among the units and direct the services provided by API unit input unit output unit keywords unit rules unit and posting unit in order to implement an embodiment described above. For example the flow of one or more processes or implementations may be controlled by logic unit alone or in conjunction with API unit .

Although a few example embodiments have been shown and described these example embodiments are provided to convey the subject matter described herein to people who are familiar with this field. It should be understood that the subject matter described herein may be embodied in various forms without being limited to the described example embodiments. The subject matter described herein can be practiced without those specifically defined or described matters or with other or different elements or matters not described. It will be appreciated by those familiar with this field that changes may be made in these example embodiments without departing from the subject matter described herein as defined in the appended claims and their equivalents.

