---

title: Baseline charge compensation
abstract: A compensation circuit may include a current source configured to control an amplitude of a current pulse, a memory configured to store a plurality of duration values each corresponding to a set of one or more sensor electrodes of a plurality of sensor electrodes, and a pulse width controller configured to control a duration of the current pulse based on a first duration value of the plurality of duration values, and to apply the current pulse to a compensation node of a capacitance sensor during a measurement cycle for a first set of one or more sensor electrodes, where the first set of one or more sensor electrodes corresponds to the first duration value.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09019220&OS=09019220&RS=09019220
owner: Cypress Semiconductor Corporation
number: 09019220
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120912
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 610 927 filed on Mar. 14 2012 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

This disclosure relates to the field of touch sensors and in particular to compensation of baseline capacitance in a capacitance sensing system.

Computing devices such as notebook computers personal data assistants PDAs kiosks and mobile handsets have user interface devices which are also known as human interface devices HID . One user interface device that has become more common is a touch sensor pad also commonly referred to as a touchpad . A basic notebook computer touch sensor pad emulates the function of a personal computer PC mouse. A touch sensor pad is typically embedded into a PC notebook for built in portability. A touch sensor pad replicates X Y movement using a collection of capacitive sensor electrodes arranged along two defined axes that detect the presence or proximity of one or more conductive objects such as a finger. Mouse right left button clicks can be replicated by two mechanical or capacitive sensed buttons located in the vicinity of the touchpad or by tapping commands on the touch sensor pad itself. The touch sensor pad provides a user interface device for performing such functions as positioning a pointer or selecting an item on a display. These touch sensor pads may include multi dimensional sensor arrays for determining movement of the conductive object in multiple axes. The sensor array may include a one dimensional sensor array detecting movement in one axis. The sensor array may also be two dimensional detecting movements in two axes.

Another user interface device that has become more common is a touch screen. Touch screens also known as touchscreens touch windows touch panels or touchscreen panels are transparent display overlays which are typically either pressure sensitive resistive or piezoelectric electrically sensitive capacitive acoustically sensitive surface acoustic wave SAW or photo sensitive infra red . Such overlays allow a display to be used as an input device removing the keyboard and or the mouse as the primary input device for interacting with the displayed image s content. Such displays can be attached to computers or as terminals to networks. Touch screens have become familiar in retail settings on point of sale systems on ATMs on mobile handsets on kiosks on game consoles and on PDAs where a stylus is sometimes used to manipulate the graphical user interface GUI and to enter data. A user can touch a touch screen or a touch sensor pad to manipulate data. For example a user can apply a single touch by using a finger to touch the surface of a touch screen to select an item from a menu.

The following description sets forth numerous specific details such as examples of specific systems components methods and so forth in order to provide a good understanding of several embodiments of the present invention. It will be apparent to one skilled in the art however that at least some embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known components or methods are not described in detail or are presented in a simple block diagram format in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention. Thus the specific details set forth are merely exemplary. Particular implementations may vary from these exemplary details and still be contemplated to be within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

In one embodiment of a touch screen sensing application a touch screen controller may stimulate and sense a response of a touch sensor. For example such a touch screen controller may include a capacitance sensor that applies a signal to a transmit TX sensor electrode to induce a signal on a receive RX sensor electrode that is capacitively coupled with the TX sensor electrode. The signal induced at the RX sensor electrode may be integrated and measured by a RX circuit also referred to as an RX channel as an amount of charge.

In one embodiment a baseline charge is an amount of charge that is attributable to the parasitic capacitance measurable for an intersection between a pair of sensor electrodes. Thus a capacitance sensor may detect the baseline amount of charge between two sensor electrodes even when no finger or other conductive object is proximate to the intersection between the sensor electrodes.

In one embodiment in order to detect a small amount of change in the presence of a large baseline a touch sensor controller may add charge to the receive signal in order to compensate for the baseline charge. For example an amount of compensation charge equal to the amount of the received baseline charge may be subtracted so that a greater portion of the remaining charge resulting from a change in capacitance due to the proximity of an actual finger or other conductive object may be more easily measured. In one embodiment the compensation of baseline charge may allow the capacitance sensor to have a higher dynamic range and operate in a smaller die size and at lower power.

In one embodiment a touch sensor controller may be calibrated to compensate for varying baseline capacitances which may vary according to the size construction technology and other characteristics of the sensor panel being sensed. One mechanism for controlling the amount of baseline charge that is compensated is based on pulse width control. In one embodiment the amount of baseline charge that is compensated may be programmable and may be different for each intersection of sensor electrodes.

In one embodiment a compensation circuit for a touch screen controller may include a current source that outputs a predetermined amount of current. The compensation circuit may also include a pulse width controller PWC that controls the duration for which the current is applied to a compensation node of the capacitance sensor.

The resulting current pulse delivers an amount of charge that can be adjusted to match the baseline charge. In one embodiment this may be accomplished by adjusting the width of the current pulse using the PWC. In one embodiment a memory may be used to store duration values corresponding to pairs of sensor electrodes identifying specific intersections between those pairs of sensor electrodes. The PWC may then adjust the widths of the current pulses applied to the compensation node based on the stored duration values to accurately compensate for baseline capacitances specific to each intersection or subset of intersections.

In one embodiment the sensor element array includes sensor elements N where N is a positive integer that are disposed as a two dimensional matrix also referred to as an XY matrix . The sensor element array is coupled to pins N of the processing device via one or more analog buses transporting multiple signals. In an alternative embodiment without an analog bus each pin may instead be connected either to a circuit that generates a TX signal or to an individual RX sensor circuit.

In one embodiment the capacitance sensor may include a relaxation oscillator or other means to convert a capacitance into a measured value. The capacitance sensor may also include a counter or timer to measure the oscillator output. The processing device may further include software components to convert the count value e.g. capacitance value into a sensor element detection decision also referred to as switch detection decision or relative magnitude. It should be noted that there are various known methods for measuring capacitance such as current versus voltage phase shift measurement resistor capacitor charge timing capacitive bridge divider charge transfer successive approximation sigma delta modulators charge accumulation circuits field effect mutual capacitance frequency shift or other capacitance measurement algorithms. It should be noted however instead of evaluating the raw counts relative to a threshold the capacitance sensor may be evaluating other measurements to determine the user interaction. For example in the capacitance sensor having a sigma delta modulator the capacitance sensor is evaluating the ratio of pulse widths of the output i.e. density domain instead of the raw counts being over or under a certain threshold.

In one embodiment the processing device further includes processing logic . Operations of the processing logic may be implemented in firmware alternatively it may be implemented in hardware or software. The processing logic may receive signals from the capacitance sensor and determine the state of the sensor element array such as whether an object e.g. a finger is detected on or in proximity to the sensor element array e.g. determining the presence of the object resolve where the object is on the sensor array e.g. determining the location of the object tracking the motion of the object or other information related to an object detected at the touch sensor.

In another embodiment instead of performing the operations of the processing logic in the processing device the processing device may send the raw data or partially processed data to the host . The host as illustrated in may include decision logic that performs some or all of the operations of the processing logic . Operations of the decision logic may be implemented in firmware hardware software or a combination thereof. The host may include a high level Application Programming Interface API in applications that perform routines on the received data such as compensating for sensitivity differences other compensation algorithms baseline update routines start up and or initialization routines interpolation operations or scaling operations. The operations described with respect to the processing logic may be implemented in the decision logic the applications or in other hardware software and or firmware external to the processing device . In some other embodiments the processing device is the host .

In another embodiment the processing device may also include a non sensing actions block . This block may be used to process and or receive transmit data to and from the host . For example additional components may be implemented to operate with the processing device along with the sensor element array e.g. keyboard keypad mouse trackball LEDs displays or other peripheral devices .

The processing device may reside on a common carrier substrate such as for example an integrated circuit IC die substrate or a multi chip module substrate. Alternatively the components of the processing device may be one or more separate integrated circuits and or discrete components. In one embodiment the processing device may be the Programmable System on a Chip PSoC processing device developed by Cypress Semiconductor Corporation San Jose Calif. Alternatively the processing device may be one or more other processing devices known by those of ordinary skill in the art such as a microprocessor or central processing unit a controller special purpose processor digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable device. In an alternative embodiment for example the processing device may be a network processor having multiple processors including a core unit and multiple micro engines. Additionally the processing device may include any combination of general purpose processing device s and special purpose processing device s .

In one embodiment the electronic system is implemented in a device that includes the touch sensing surface as the user interface such as handheld electronics portable telephones cellular telephones notebook computers personal computers personal data assistants PDAs kiosks keyboards televisions remote controls monitors handheld multi media devices handheld video players gaming devices control panels of a household or industrial appliances or other computer peripheral or input devices. Alternatively the electronic system may be used in other types of devices. It should be noted that the components of electronic system may include all the components described above. Alternatively electronic system may include only some of the components described above or include additional components not listed herein.

Capacitance sensor includes multiplexer control demultiplexer and multiplexer clock generator signal generator demodulation circuit and analog to digital converter ADC . ADC is further coupled with touch coordinate converter . Touch coordinate converter may be implemented in the processing logic .

The transmit and receive electrodes in the electrode matrix may be arranged so that each of the transmit electrodes overlap and cross each of the receive electrodes such as to form an array of intersections while maintaining galvanic isolation from each other. Thus each transmit electrode may be capacitively coupled with each of the receive electrodes. For example transmit electrode is capacitively coupled with receive electrode at the point where transmit electrode and receive electrode overlap.

Clock generator supplies a clock signal to signal generator which produces a TX signal to be supplied to the transmit electrodes of touch sensor . In one embodiment the signal generator includes a set of switches that operate according to the clock signal from clock generator . The switches may generate a TX signal by periodically connecting the output of signal generator to a first voltage and then to a second voltage wherein said first and second voltages are different.

The output of signal generator is connected with demultiplexer which allows the TX signal to be applied to any of the M transmit electrodes of touch sensor . In one embodiment multiplexer control controls demultiplexer so that the TX signal is applied to each transmit electrode in a controlled sequence. Demultiplexer may also be used to ground float or connect an alternate signal to the other transmit electrodes to which the TX signal is not currently being applied. In an alternate embodiment the TX signal may be presented in a true form to a subset of the transmit electrodes and in complement form to a second subset of the transmit electrodes wherein there is no overlap in members of the first and second subset of transmit electrodes .

Because of the capacitive coupling between the transmit and receive electrodes the TX signal applied to each transmit electrode induces a current within each of the receive electrodes. For instance when the TX signal is applied to transmit electrode through demultiplexer the TX signal induces an RX signal on the receive electrodes in matrix . The RX signal on each of the receive electrodes can then be measured in sequence by using multiplexer to connect each of the N receive electrodes to demodulation circuit in sequence.

The mutual capacitance associated with each intersection between a TX electrode and an RX electrode can be measured by selecting every available combination of TX electrode and an RX electrode using demultiplexer and multiplexer . To improve performance multiplexer may also be segmented to allow more than one of the receive electrodes in matrix to be routed to additional demodulation circuits . In an optimized configuration wherein there is a 1 to 1 correspondence of instances of demodulation circuit with receive electrodes multiplexer may not be present in the system.

When a conductive object such as a finger approaches the electrode matrix the object causes a decrease in the measured mutual capacitance between only some of the electrodes. For example if a finger is placed near the intersection of transmit electrode and receive electrode the presence of the finger will decrease the charge coupled between electrodes and . Thus the location of the finger on the touchpad can be determined by identifying the one or more receive electrodes having a decrease in measured mutual capacitance in addition to identifying the transmit electrode to which the TX signal was applied at the time the decrease in capacitance was measured on the one or more receive electrodes.

By determining changes in the mutual capacitances associated with each intersection of electrodes in the matrix the presence and locations of one or more conductive objects may be determined. The determination may be sequential in parallel or may occur more frequently at commonly used electrodes.

In alternative embodiments other methods for detecting the presence of a finger or other conductive object may be used where the finger or conductive object causes an increase in measured capacitance at one or more electrodes which may be arranged in a grid or other pattern. For example a finger placed near an electrode of a capacitive sensor may introduce an additional capacitance to ground that increases the total capacitance between the electrode and ground. The location of the finger can be determined based on the locations of one or more electrodes at which a change in measured capacitance is detected and the associated magnitude of capacitance change at each respective electrode.

The induced current signal is integrated by demodulation circuit . The rectified current output by demodulation circuit can then be filtered and converted to a digital code by ADC .

A series of such digital codes measured from adjacent sensor intersections when compared to or offset by the associated codes of these same sensors in an un touched state may be converted to touch coordinates indicating a position of an input on touch sensor element array by touch coordinate converter . The touch coordinates may then be used to detect gestures or perform other functions by the processing logic .

In one embodiment a capacitance sensor such as capacitance sensor may compensate for a baseline amount of charge induced at one of the receive electrodes by adding or subtracting a repeatable programmable amount of charge. This may be accomplished by injecting a current into the RX input to deliver an amount of charge I T Q where I represents amplitude T represents duration and Q represents the amount of charge injected.

In one embodiment where the capacitance sensor detects capacitance using a full wave rectification the baseline compensation may operate in both positive and negative phases of the TX pulse. The compensation circuitry may thus subtract charge during one phase of the TX pulse and add charge during the opposite phase.

Given a fixed pulse width the current generated by the GIDAC approximates an amplitude for delivering the baseline amount of charge while an additional current generated by the LIDAC may be added to the GIDAC current at summing node to more closely match the final amount of charge to be delivered. In one embodiment the GIDAC may be programmed to output a current having an amplitude specified by an amplitude value stored in memory .

The gain module controlled by a gain signal may be used to change the gain and sign of the summed current received from summing node . In one embodiment the gain module may generate the positive and negative currents idacp and idacn based on the summed current. A global timing controller may then be used to operate switches pwc and pwc to apply the positive and negative current pulses as appropriate to the integrator of the capacitance sensor. For example the positive and negative pulses may be applied to the RX integrator during the negative and positive TX periods respectively. In one embodiment the timing controller may be implemented using a counter.

Thus while the compensation circuit generates current pulses having fixed duration and varying amplitudes by adding the GIDAC and LIDAC currents together the compensation circuit may instead adjust the amount of charge delivered with each current pulse by controlling the pulse width. Thus instead of using LIDACs to compensate for local baseline variations the local baseline variations may be compensated by increasing or decreasing the width of the current pulse.

In the compensation circuit the baseline compensation may be accomplished using a global IDAC GIDAC and local per channel adjustment of the pulse width. The GIDAC delivers sufficient charge to compensate even the RX channels having the worst case baseline effects while the pulse width controller makes a final adjustment to the amount of charge delivered to each channel.

In one embodiment the additional expense of a LIDAC for each RX channel is avoided and the baseline compensation for each channel is achieved using one or more registers such as register and timing controller to control the timing of PWC switches and .

In one embodiment the compensation circuit is configured to output a current pulse at baseline output which is connected to a compensation node of a capacitance sensor. In one embodiment the compensation node may be an input of an integrator of a capacitance sensor. The integrator may be configured to integrate charge received from one of the RX sensor electrodes in the form of an RX current thus the charge delivered to the integrator at the baseline output serves to offset the baseline charge integrated from the RX sensor electrode .

In one embodiment the compensation circuit includes a current source that is programmable to output a current having a predetermined amplitude. For example the current source may be a current mode D A converter or IDAC. The global IDAC GIDAC may be programmed to output a current having an amplitude specified by an amplitude value stored in memory . In one embodiment the current level of GIDAC may be programmed to a value large enough to inject sufficient current into any of the client RX channels. In one embodiment the GIDAC or other current source may be capable of both supplying and sinking current to generate both positive and negative currents for compensating both true and complement signals.

In alternative embodiments the GIDAC may be replaced with one or more other types of current sources such as a switched capacitor or resistor connected to a reference voltage or to ground. In one embodiment where a resistor and voltage source are used as a current source the predetermined current may be determined by the resistor value and voltage level of the voltage source.

In one embodiment the compensation circuit may also include a memory such as memory that is coupled with the current source GIDAC . The memory may store a number of values each indicating an output current level for the GIDAC . In one embodiment the GIDAC is configured to output currents these different output levels at different times. The amplitudes of the current pulses generated by the compensation circuit can thus be adjusted based on the amplitude values stored in the memory .

In one embodiment the GIDAC output may be changed for each row column or intersection being sensed. The sequence of this change may be controlled by a CPU or sequencer by reprogramming the GIDAC during a capacitance measurement scan of an array of sensor electrodes. For example in a system where a TX signal is applied to successive TX sensor electrodes the GIDAC may be reprogrammed to output a different current level every time the TX signal is applied to a different TX sensor electrode. In an alternative embodiment the GIDAC may be reprogrammed to output a different current level for each TX RX intersection that is sensed.

In one embodiment a replicator may be connected to the GIDAC and may generate multiple replicated currents based on the current output by the GIDAC with each of the replicated currents being supplied to a different client RX channel. In one embodiment the replicated currents are each equal to the GIDAC output current. In one embodiment the replicator generates as many replicated currents as there are RX channels.

In one embodiment the replicator generates a positive current idacp and a negative current idacn based on the output of the GIDAC . In one embodiment regardless of the sign the amplitudes of currents and may be approximately equal to the output current of GIDAC . In one embodiment the replicator may similarly generate a positive and negative current for each of the client RX channels.

In one embodiment the compensation circuit includes a pulse width controller that is configured to control a duration of the current pulse based on a duration value. In one embodiment the duration value may be stored in a register .

For each RX channel the pulse width controller may control the amount of time that the GIDAC current is allowed to flow into the compensation node i.e. the integrator input by operating the switches and based on the PWC signals. In one embodiment the amount of charge injected into the compensation node is determined by the amplitude of the current pulse times the duration. Thus a longer duration increases the amount of charge that is injected into the compensation node.

In one embodiment this baseline compensation by injecting charge into the integrator input may further reduce the burden on the integrator operational amplifier by reducing the amount of inrush current coming from the RX sensor electrode.

In one embodiment the PWC may be clocked by a relatively high clock rate to allow the pulse durations to be adjusted with a high time resolution. For example a clock having a frequency of 33 MHz may be used to clock the PWC . This results in PWC timing increments of about 30 ns.

In one embodiment the compensation circuit may generate a current pulse based on the GIDAC and PWC settings that has a high amplitude and short duration. This may more closely match the incoming charge from the RX input.

In one embodiment the compensation circuit includes a memory configured to store a number of duration values for controlling the duration of the current pulse. In one embodiment each duration value may specify a duration of a current pulse to be applied to the compensation node during the measurement cycle for a set of sensor electrodes which may include one or more sensor electrodes. In one embodiment a set of two sensor electrodes may correspond to an intersection between those sensor electrodes.

In one embodiment the duration values stored in memory may be loaded into the register to control the timing controller .

In one embodiment the PWC timing controller may be operated on a per channel basis to close the switches and for different durations depending on the sensor electrode or intersection between sensor electrodes for which capacitance is being measured. In one embodiment the timing controller may be implemented using a counter.

In one embodiment when an intersection is being measured a duration value corresponding to that intersection is loaded from memory into register . The timing controller then operates the switches and based on the duration value in register .

In one embodiment the compensation circuitry includes the two PWC switches and which are configured to control the timing of the negative and positive phases of the baseline compensation process independently. Switch connects positive current idacp with the compensation node and switch connects the negative current idacn with the compensation node.

In one embodiment both of the switches and can be controlled by a single duration value stored in register . In an alternative embodiment each of the switches and are controlled independently by different register values.

As illustrated in the closing of switch is timed to correspond to the beginning of each positive cycle of the TX signal . Switch is similarly closed during each negative cycle of TX signal . In one embodiment the switches may be closed at the beginning of each positive or negative cycle of the TX signal . Alternatively a programmable delay such as delay between a rising edge of TX signal and the closing of switch may be used to time align the compensation current pulse with inrush RX current received from the RX sensor electrode. In particular delay delays the closing of switch by two clock cycles from the rising edge of TX .

In one embodiment the calibration process may be used to obtain a set of duration values each associated with an intersection between a pair of sensor electrodes in an array of sensor electrodes. The calibration process begins at block . At block for each intersection of the array of sensor electrodes the compensation circuitry may be used to determine a duration value corresponding to the intersection by minimizing a baseline current caused by a parasitic capacitance of the intersection. For example parasitic capacitance may exist between the intersecting sensor electrodes.

In one embodiment this calibration process may occur during a period when no touches are detected at the touch sensing surface. During this process global and local baseline values can be stored in the corresponding registers or memory. For instance during the calibration process of block the system may calculate amplitude values and duration values that can be used to deliver the correct amount of compensating charge for minimizing the baseline charge for each intersection. These amplitude values and duration values may then be stored for later recall and use.

In one embodiment the duration values or the amplitude values may be updated during normal operation of the touch surface. For example recalibration may be triggered in response to detecting that environmental conditions such as temperature and humidity have sufficiently changed the touch panel characteristics or have exceeded some threshold value.

In one embodiment the GIDAC amplitude values that are determined during the calibration process are unique to each individual TX row or column intersection on the touch panel.

In one embodiment the process may continue from block to block where at least one intersection may be identified as corresponding to a duration value or amplitude value that exceeds one or more calibration limits which may be defined as a range of acceptable values. In one embodiment any duration or amplitude values as determined by the calibration process that exceed the calibration limits may be used to indicate a failure or manufacturing defect in the array of sensor electrodes.

In one embodiment the calibration and defect detection process may be followed by a current pulse generation process . In one embodiment the current pulse generation process includes blocks and uses the duration and amplitude values determined by the calibration process to generate a current pulse.

The process begins at block where the compensation circuitry generates a current having an amplitude that is based on a predetermined amplitude value such as one of the amplitude values determined by the calibration process . In an alternative embodiment the predetermined amplitude value may be set by a value of a resistor or other component. For example a predetermined amplitude may be set by the resistor value in an embodiment where a resistor connected to a voltage source is used as a current source.

In one embodiment as TX signals are applied to successive TX sensor electrodes the corresponding amplitude values stored in registers or other memory may be applied to the GIDAC during the capacitance measurement cycle of the RX sensor electrodes. In one embodiment the same embedded sequencer used to control the application of the TX signals to the TX sensor electrodes is also used to apply the corresponding amplitude values to the GIDAC alternatively this function may be performed by a CPU or other processing logic.

From block the process continues at block . At block a duration value is identified that corresponds to an intersection or subset of intersections presently being sensed. In one embodiment the duration value may be determined by reading the duration value from a register or other memory. For example a duration value may be read from a register or other memory based on a signal from an embedded sequencer or other logic indicating the intersection that is being sensed. This signal may be used to select the duration value corresponding to the sensed intersection.

From block the process continues at block . At block during a capacitance measurement cycle of the intersection the compensation circuit operates a switch to apply the current to a compensation node of a capacitance sensor for a duration that is based on the duration value.

For example with reference to compensation circuit of the pulse width controller may operate the switches and to apply the current generated by GIDAC to the compensation node which is the input of integrator . The pulse width controller closes the switches and for a duration indicated by a duration value stored in register . In one embodiment the timing controller outputs signals and as illustrated in to close the switches and respectively for the appropriate durations.

In one embodiment the compensation node is coupled with the input of integrator such that the generated current pulse is applied to the integrator input while the charge from the RX sensor electrode is being integrated over time.

In alternative embodiments the compensation circuit as described above may be used to compensate for baseline capacitances in a system that measures self capacitances of sensor electrodes. For example memory may be used to store duration values each associated with a set of one or more sensor electrodes. The duration values corresponding to the set of sensor elements may then be used to control the pulse width of a current pulse during a self capacitance measurement cycle for the set of sensor elements.

Embodiments of the present invention described herein include various operations. These operations may be performed by hardware components software firmware or a combination thereof. As used herein the term coupled to may mean coupled directly or indirectly through one or more intervening components. Any of the signals provided over various buses described herein may be time multiplexed with other signals and provided over one or more common buses. Additionally the interconnection between circuit components or blocks may be shown as buses or as single signal lines. Each of the buses may alternatively be one or more single signal lines and each of the single signal lines may alternatively be buses.

Certain embodiments may be implemented as a computer program product that may include instructions stored on a computer readable medium. These instructions may be used to program a general purpose or special purpose processor to perform the described operations. A computer readable medium includes any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form e.g. software processing application readable by a machine e.g. a computer . The computer readable storage medium may include but is not limited to magnetic storage medium e.g. floppy diskette optical storage medium e.g. CD ROM magneto optical storage medium read only memory ROM random access memory RAM erasable programmable memory e.g. EPROM and EEPROM flash memory or another type of medium suitable for storing electronic instructions.

Additionally some embodiments may be practiced in distributed computing environments where the computer readable medium is stored on and or executed by more than one computer system. In addition the information transferred between computer systems may either be pulled or pushed across the transmission medium connecting the computer systems.

Although the operations of the method s herein are shown and described in a particular order the order of the operations of each method may be altered so that certain operations may be performed in an inverse order or so that certain operation may be performed at least in part concurrently with other operations. In another embodiment instructions or sub operations of distinct operations may be in an intermittent and or alternating manner.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

