---

title: Device and method for upgrading petroleum feedstocks and petroleum refinery streams using an alkali metal conductive membrane
abstract: A reactor has two chambers, namely an oil feedstock chamber and a source chamber. An ion separator separates the oil feedstock chamber from the source chamber, wherein the ion separator allows alkali metal ions to pass from the source chamber, through the ion separator, and into the oil feedstock chamber. A cathode is at least partially housed within the oil feedstock chamber and an anode is at least partially housed within the source chamber. A quantity of an oil feedstock is within the oil feedstock chamber, the oil feedstock comprising at least one carbon atom and a heteroatom and/or one or more heavy metals, the oil feedstock further comprising naphthenic acid. When the alkali metal ion enters the oil feedstock chamber, the alkali metal reacts with the heteroatom, the heavy metals and/or the naphthenic acid, wherein the reaction with the alkali metal forms inorganic products.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09441170&OS=09441170&RS=09441170
owner: FIELD UPGRADING LIMITED
number: 09441170
owner_city: Calgary
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20121116
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract No. DE FE0000408 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in the invention.

This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 560 653 filed Nov. 16 2011 which is expressly incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to a process for removing nitrogen sulfur heavy metals and acid protons from sulfur nitrogen and metal bearing shale oil bitumen heavy oil and petroleum refinery streams so that these materials may be used as a hydrocarbon fuel. More specifically the present disclosure relates to removing nitrogen sulfur heavy metals and acid protons from shale oil bitumen heavy oil or petroleum refinery streams while at the same time upgrading these materials to have a higher hydrogen to carbon ratio.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 916 984 which has been incorporated herein by reference has been published as United States Patent Application Publication No. 2011 0100874. The reader is presumed to be familiar with the disclosure of this published application. This published application will be referred to herein as the 874 application. 

The demand for energy and the hydrocarbons from which that energy is derived is continually rising. However hydrocarbon raw materials used to provide this energy often contain difficult to remove sulfur and metals. For example sulfur can cause air pollution and can poison catalysts designed to remove hydrocarbons and nitrogen oxide from motor vehicle exhaust necessitating the need for expensive processes used to remove the sulfur from the hydrocarbon raw materials before it is allowed to be used as a fuel. Further metals such as heavy metals are often found in the hydrocarbon raw materials. These heavy metals can poison catalysts that are typically utilized to remove the sulfur from hydrocarbons. To remove these metals further processing of the hydrocarbons is required thereby further increasing expenses.

Currently there is an on going search for new energy sources in order to reduce the United States dependence on foreign oil. It has been hypothesized that extensive reserves of shale oil which constitutes oil retorted from oil shale minerals will play an increasingly significant role in meeting this country s future energy needs. In the U.S. over 1 trillion barrels of usable reserve shale oil are found in a relatively small area known as the Green River Formation located in Colorado Utah and Wyoming. As the price of crude oil rises these shale oil resources become more attractive as an alternative energy source. In order to utilize this resource specific technical issues must be solved in order to allow such shale oil reserves to be used in a cost effective manner as hydrocarbon fuel. One issue associated with these materials is that they contain a relatively high level of nitrogen sulfur and metals which must be removed in order to allow this shale oil to function properly as a hydrocarbon fuel.

Other examples of potential hydrocarbon fuels that likewise require a removal of sulfur nitrogen or heavy metals are bitumen which exists in ample quantities in Alberta Canada and heavy oils such as are found in Venezuela .

The high level of nitrogen sulfur and heavy metals in shale oil bitumen and heavy oil which may collectively or individually be referred to as oil feedstock makes processing these materials difficult. Typically these oil feedstock materials are refined to remove the sulfur nitrogen and heavy metals through a process known as hydro treating. 

Hydro treating may be performed by treating the material with hydrogen gas at an elevated temperature and an elevated pressure using catalysts such as Co Mo AlOor Ni Mo AlO.

In the present invention the oil feedstock is mixed with an alkali metal such as sodium and hydrogen gas. This mixture is reacted under modest pressure and usually at an elevated temperature . The sulfur and nitrogen atoms are chemically bonded to carbon atoms in the oil feedstocks. The sulfur and nitrogen heteroatoms are reduced by the alkali metals to form ionic salts such as NaS NaN LiS etc. . To prevent coking e.g. a formation of a coal like product the reaction occurs in the presence of hydrogen gas that can form bonds with the carbon atoms of the oil feedstock previously bonded to the heteroatoms. The hydrogen atom bonds to the carbon atoms that were previously bonded to the heteroatoms thereby increasing the hydrogen to carbon ratio of the oil feedstock and decreasing the heteroatom to carbon ratio of the resulting organic feedstock. After the hydro treating reaction the organic phase oil feedstock is less viscous and may be sent for further refining into a hydrocarbon fuel material.

The ionic salts formed in the hydro treating process may be removed from the organic products by filtering or first mixing the treated feedstock with hydrogen sulfide to form an alkali hydrosulfide which forms a separate phase from the organic phase oil feedstock . This reaction is shown below with sodium Na being the alkali metal although other alkali metals may also be used NaS HS 2NaHS which is a liquid at 375 C. NaN 3HS 3NaHS NH The nitrogen product is removed in the form of ammonia gas NH which may be vented and recovered whereas the sulfur product is removed in the form of an alkali hydro sulfide NaHS which is separated for further processing. Any heavy metals will also be separated out from the organic hydrocarbons by gravimetric separation techniques.

As part of the process alkali metals are used. An advantage of using alkali metals such as sodium or lithium instead of hydrogen to reduce the heteroatoms is alkali metals offer a greater reduction strength. In other words the alkali metals are better able to reduce the heteroatoms and form alkali metal nitrides or alkali metal sulfides. Further by using alkali metals there is less need to saturate rings with hydrogen to destabilize them so that the heteroatoms can be reduced making it possible to remove heteroatoms with significantly less hydrogen.

It should be noted that the alkali metal treatment process is known in the industry and is described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 3 787 315 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2009 0134040 and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2005 0161340. These documents are expressly incorporated herein by reference. 

A disadvantage of using the hydro treating process is that hydrogen gas is a necessary reactant needed for the hydro treating process. However hydrogen gas can be expensive. Typically hydrogen gas is formed by reacting hydrocarbon molecules with water. For example in the United States 95 of the hydrogen is formed using the Steam Methane Reforming Process from natural gas. In the first step known as the reforming step methane CH in natural gas is reacted with steam HO at 750 C. 800 C. to produce synthesis gas syngas . Syngas is a mixture primarily comprised of hydrogen gas H and carbon monoxide CO . In the next step known as the water gas shift reaction the carbon monoxide produced in the first reaction is reacted with steam HO over a catalyst to form hydrogen gas H and carbon dioxide CO . This second process e.g. the water gas shift reaction occurs in two stages the first stage occurring around 350 C. and the second stage occurring at about 200 C.

The overall reaction for the Steam Methane Reforming Process is as follows CH 2HO 4H CO Thus for every theoretical mole of hydrogen gas produced 0.25 moles methane and 0.5 moles of water are required. Also for every mole of hydrogen gas produced 0.25 moles of carbon dioxide are produced and released to the atmosphere. It should be noted that the Steam Methane Reforming Process is typically only 65 75 efficient. Thus at 70 efficiency the Steam Methane Reforming Process will actually utilizes 0.36 moles of methane and 0.71 moles of water while releasing 0.36 moles of carbon dioxide for every mole of hydrogen produced.

This production of carbon dioxide during the hydro treating process is considered problematic by many environmentalists due to rising concern over carbon dioxide emissions and the impact such emissions may have on the environment.

An additional problem in many regions is the scarcity of water resources. For example in the region of Western Colorado and Eastern Utah where parts of the Green River Formation of shale oil is located the climate is arid and the use of water in forming hydrogen gas can be expensive.

Alternatively some industrialists have used an electrolysis process to provide the hydrogen gas supply needed for their hydro treating process. This electrolysis reaction involves the electrolytic decomposition of water. In this electrolytic reaction water is split to form hydrogen at a cathode and oxygen at an anode HO H 1 2 

In this reaction electrical energy is used to split the water. If the cell runs at 90 efficiency and runs at about 1.4 Volts then the electrical energy required is about 72 kcal per mole of created hydrogen. For every mole of hydrogen produced in this electrolysis reaction one mole of water is consumed. Because one mole of water is consumed to produce hydrogen in this method more water is required to produce the hydrogen gas via electrolysis than is required to produce the hydrogen using the Steam Methane Reforming Process which requires 0.71 moles water . Thus in arid climates where the cost of water is high using an electrolysis process to produce hydrogen may not be economically feasible.

While conventional hydro treating processes are known they are expensive and require large capital investments in order to obtain a functioning hydro treating plant. There is a need in the industry for a new process that may be used to remove heteroatoms such as sulfur and nitrogen from oil feedstocks but that is less expensive than hydro treating. Such a process is disclosed herein.

Additionally naphthenic acids must be removed from many organic streams that are produced by refineries. Naphthenic acids NAPs are carboxylic acids present in petroleum crude or various refinery streams. These acids are responsible for corrosion in refineries. A common measure of acidity of petroleum is called the Total Acid Number TAN value and is defined as the milligrams mg of potassium hydroxide needed to neutralize the acid in one gram of the petroleum material. Other acids found in the oil feedstock may also contribute to the TAN value . All petroleum streams with TAN 1 are called high TAN. NAPs are a mixture of many different compounds and cannot be separated via distillation. Moreover high TAN crudes are discounted over Brent Crude prices. For example Doba crude with a TAN of 4.7 is discounted by 19 per barrel on a base price of 80 for Brent crude.

NAPs boil in the same range as that of kerosene jet fuel. However kerosene jet fuels have very stringent TAN specifications. Attempting to neutralize these acids using aqueous caustic or other bases form salts. These salts in presence of water lead to formation of stable emulsions. Additional methodologies of NAP reduction include hydrotreating or decarboxylation that are both destructive methodologies and the NAPs cannot be recovered using these methods. Solvent extraction or adsorption methodologies lead to high costs and energy usage for sorbent regeneration or solvent boiling. A new method for NAPs removal with lower energy consumption wherein NAPs can be recovered and processed as commercial products is required. Accordingly a new method of neutralizing and or removing NAPs is needed. Such a method and device is disclosed herein.

The present embodiments include a method of upgrading an oil feedstock with the benefit of a strong alkali metal agent without directly being required to handle store or transport the alkali metal. The method comprises obtaining a quantity of an oil feedstock the oil feedstock comprising at least one carbon atom and a heteroatom and or one or more heavy metals. The quantity of the oil feedstock is reacted with an alkali metal generated on an electrode within the reactor. The reaction with the alkali metal may also include using an upgradant hydrocarbon such as hydrogen gas or a hydrocarbon.

In order to implement these embodiments a reactor may be utilized with at least two chambers separated in part by a membrane conductive to alkali metal ions. This membrane conducts alkali metal ions from an alkali metal ion source material such as a liquid comprised of sodium salts or sodium metal . A positive charged electrode anode is in communication with the alkali metal ion source. The opposite chamber of the reactor called the feedstock chamber includes a feedstock stream comprised of the organic oil feedstock and a negatively charged electrode cathode . The alkali metal enters the feedstock chamber and reacts with the heteroatom and or the heavy metals in the feedstock to form one or more inorganic products wherein the upgradant hydrocarbon reacts with the oil feedstock to produce an upgraded oil feedstock. The reaction with the upgradent hydrocarbon operates such that the number of carbon atoms in the upgraded oil feedstock may be greater than the number of carbon atoms in the original oil feedstock. The inorganic products are then separated from the upgraded oil feedstock. The reaction of the oil feedstock the alkali metal and the upgradant hydrocarbon molecule may be implemented with or without using hydrogen gas. If hydrogen gas is utilized the amount of hydrogen gas needed is much less than would be required using conventional hydrotreating. 

In some embodiments the alkali metal comprises sodium lithium or alloys of lithium and sodium. The upgradant hydrogen source may comprise hydrogen natural gas shale gas and or mixtures thereof. In other embodiments the upgradant hydrocarbon comprises methane ethane propane butane pentane their isomers ethene propene butene pentene dienes and or mixtures thereof. Oil retort gas which is a mixture of gases that is produced in a refinery process may also be used as the upgradant hydrocarbon. 

The process of reacting the feedstock with the alkali metal may consist of two steps. A first step involves having alkali metal ions be transferred across the membrane and reduced to metal at the membrane surface at a negatively charged electrode which may be directly fixed to the membrane surface . A second step involves having the formed alkali metal react directly with the constituents in the oil feedstock or carried away with the oil to react downstream . The electrode where the alkali metal is formed may be porous or comprised of a mesh. In another embodiment the electrode may be a film of metallic alkali metal connected to an electrical lead or current collector . To maintain continuity a screen or mesh may provide a divider to separate a zone where the alkali metal is reduced from the oil feedstock. This screen allows the alkali metal to pass through as it is formed.

The reaction between the alkali metal and the oil feedstock may occur at a pressure that is between barometric and about 2500 psi and or at a temperature that is between about 100 C. temperature and 450 C. In other embodiments the reaction between the alkali metal and the oil feedstock occurs at a temperature that is above the melting point of the alkali metal but is lower than 450 C. Further embodiments may utilize a catalyst in the reaction. The catalyst may comprise molybdenum nickel cobalt or alloys thereof molybdenum oxide nickel oxide or cobalt oxides and or combinations thereof.

As the reaction between the alkali metal and the oil feedstock produces inorganic products a separation step may be needed. The separation used in the process may occur in a separator wherein the inorganic products form a phase that is separable from an organic phase that comprises the upgraded oil feedstock and or unreacted oil feedstock. To facilitate this separation a flux may be added to the separator. After separation the alkali metal from the inorganic products may be regenerated and reused.

The upgraded oil feedstock produced in the reaction may have a greater hydrogen to carbon ratio than the oil feedstock. The upgraded oil feedstock produced in the reaction may also have a greater energy value than the oil feedstock. Further the heteroatom to carbon ratio of the upgraded oil feedstock may be less than the heteroatom to carbon ratio of the oil feedstock.

Additional embodiments may be designed in which an alkali metal is added to the oil feedstock in order to reduce the TAN value of the oil feedstock. Specifically the alkali metal may react with the oil feedstock to remove the acidic components thereby lowering the TAN value. In some embodiments the original unreacted oil feedstock may have a TAN value of greater than or equal to 1 but after reaction with the alkali metal may have a TAN value of less than or equal to 1.

The present embodiments relate to a method to de acidify feedstocks and refinery streams. Such de acidification is beneficial as it may operate to reduce piping corrosion and may convert naphthenic acids to a salt form. The present embodiments involve the addition of alkali metals such as sodium or lithium metal to the feedstocks as a means of reacting with the naphthenic acids thereby de acidifying these acids. When this reaction occurs the naphthenic acids may be converted into the corresponding sodium or lithium salts or other inorganic products . Hydrogen gas is also formed in this reaction. This reaction is summarized as follows R COOH Na R COO Na 1 2 H

Alternatively the sodium may further react with oxygen atoms to eliminate the carboxyl group as shown in the following formula R COOH 4Na H R CH 2NaO

The reaction with NAPs in this manner may be desirable and may result in a reduction of Total Acid Number TAN associated with the oil feedstock. There are multiple different ways in which the alkali metal may be added to the feedstock. In one embodiment the sodium or lithium metal is directly added to the stream. Once this occurs the inorganic products may then be filtered from the oil stream. Other embodiments may also be designed as described herein to provide other mechanisms for adding the alkali metal to the stream of oil feedstock such as for example by forming the alkali metal in situ .

It should be noted that in addition to reacting with the acids such as naphthenic acids the alkali metals that are added to the feedstock may also react to remove sulfur nitrogen metals such as heavy metals etc. This process for removing these metals heteroatoms is discussed in the 874 application. Thus by adding alkali metals to the oil feedstock the problems associated with metals heteroatoms in the stream as well as problems with acids in the stream may be overcome.

It should be noted that many in the oil processing industry are uncomfortable handling metallic sodium or lithium because of its reactive nature. In other words these practitioners are uncomfortable using sodium lithium and are uncomfortable adding these reagents directly to their oil feedstock streams. Accordingly the present embodiments also provide methods and devices which operate to electrochemically produce alkali metals within an oil feedstock chamber e.g. in situ thereby bringing an alkali metal such as sodium in direct contact with the feedstock. Once this alkali metal is produced in the chamber it is consumed by reacting with the heavy metals heteroatoms and or the acids in the feedstock. These embodiments may be desirable in that they provide the strong reducing power and reactivity associated with alkali metals without ever having an appreciable amount of the metal present. In other words the present embodiments upgrade an oil feedstock using the alkali metal e.g. a strong agent without the practitioner being required to handle store or transport the alkali metal.

Referring now to a device is illustrated that may be used to de acidify a quantity of a first oil feedstock . As shown in the oil feedstock is a liquid that is placed within a chamber . The chamber may be a reaction vessel a chamber of an electrolysis cell as will be described herein etc. Those skilled in the art will appreciate what vessels containers etc. may be used as the chamber .

The oil feedstock comprises a quantity of naphthenic acids . As described above naphthenic acids comprise carboxylic acids present in petroleum crude or various refinery streams. Naphthenic acids are a mixture of many different compounds and cannot be separated out via distillation. In order to eliminate the naphthenic acids from the oil feedstock a quantity of an alkali metal is added to the chamber . The alkali metal is abbreviated as AM. In some embodiments the alkali metal may be sodium lithium or alloys of sodium and lithium. The chamber may be kept at a temperature that is above the melting point of the alkali metal such that the liquid alkali metal may easily be added to the liquid oil feedstock. In some embodiments the reaction occurs at a temperature that is above the melting point of the alkali metal or above a temperature of about 100 C. . In other embodiments the temperature of the reaction is less than about 450 C.

When added to the chamber the alkali metal may react with the oil feedstock . More specifically the alkali metal reacts with the quantity of the naphthenic acids to form a de acidified feedstock . As inorganic acid products may also be formed from this reaction a product separator may be used to separate the de acidified oil feedstock from the inorganic acid products. Those skilled in the art will appreciate how this separation may occur. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate the structures such as a settling chamber etc. that may be used as the product separator . The product separator may be integral with the chamber or may be a separate structure as shown in .

As explained herein the reaction between the alkali metal and the naphthenic acids operates to eliminate the naphthenic acids from the oil feedstock . Thus the TAN value of the de acidified oil feedstock will be lower than the TAN value of the original unreacted first oil feedstock . For example in some embodiments the TAN value of the original unreacted oil feedstock may be greater than or equal to 1 such as for example 3 4 5 etc. whereas the TAN value of the de acidified oil feedstock is a lower value such as less than or equal to 1. As noted above other acids in the oil feedstock may contribute to the TAN value of the feedstock . These acids may also react with the alkali metal in a similar manner further reducing the TAN value.

This reduction in TAN value may provide a significant financial benefit to the owner of the oil feedstock. As noted above prices per barrel of oil products that are considered to be high TAN e.g. with a TAN value greater than 1 are often discounted significantly with respect to barrels of oil products that are low TAN. Thus by reducing the TAN value in the oil feedstock the value of the oil feedstock may be significantly increased.

Referring now to another embodiment of the device is illustrated. As noted above the device is similar to the device shown in . The device may be designed to de acidify the oil feedstock . At the same time the device may also be designed to further upgrade the first oil feedstock by removing heavy metals and or one or more heteroatoms that are present in the oil feedstock .

As described above heavy metals such as nickel vanadium iron arsenic etc. are often found in samples of oil feedstock materials . In some embodiments it may be desirable to remove these heavy metals as such metals can poison catalysts that are typically utilized in hydrocarbon processing. However as shown in the device may be designed such that the alkali metal may react with the heavy metals in the oil feedstock . More specifically in addition to the alkali metal reacting with the naphthenic acids to de acidify the feedstock as described above the quantity of the alkali metal may further react with the heavy metals thereby reducing the heavy metals into their metallic states. This reaction may also occur in the chamber .

As shown in these heavy metals may then be separated and recovered using the product separator . It should be noted that the heavy metals in their metallic state are inorganic materials and thus may separate out from the organic oil feedstock materials. Accordingly the product separator may use this property as a means of separating out the heavy metals . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other separation techniques may also be used to separate out the heavy metals . Once the metals have been separated they may be recovered sold used in further processing etc. As these metals are generally expensive commodities the fact that such metals may be collected and used sold may provide a significant commercial advantage for the owner of the feedstock.

In addition to removing heavy metals the alkali metal may also react with one or more heteroatoms such as N S that are present in the oil feedstock . These N S atoms may be bonded to the carbon hydrogen atoms in the organic oil feedstock . However as noted herein the alkali metal may react with these one or more heteroatoms to form inorganic sulfur nitrogen products . For example if the alkali metal is sodium then the reaction with the heteroatoms forms inorganic sulfur nitrogen products such as NaS NaN and or other inorganic products. Again a product separator may be used to separate out the inorganic sulfur nitrogen products from the oil feedstock . Once the inorganic sulfur nitrogen products have been removed the heteroatom to carbon ratio of the resulting oil feedstock is less than the heteroatom to carbon ratio of the original unreacted oil feedstock .

It should be noted that after the oil feedstock has been de acidified demetalized de sulfurized and or de nitrogenized then this oil feedstock is referred to as an upgraded oil feedstock in that this material is better suited for further refining commercialization etc.

It should be noted that in the embodiment shown in a single product separator is shown as separating out the heavy metals the inorganic acid products and the inorganic sulfur nitrogen products thereby removing these materials from the upgraded oil feedstock . However those skilled in the art will appreciate that multiple product separators and or separation techniques may be used to accomplish such separations. Further there also may be a sequential separation of the various materials from the upgraded oil feedstock

Likewise it should be noted that in the embodiment of a single chamber is used to react the oil feedstock with the alkali metal and thus remove the naphthenic acids heavy metals and heteroatoms from the organic feedstock . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that such reactions could also occur in different chambers. In other words embodiments may be designed in which a first chamber is used to react the alkali metal with the heavy metals and the heavy metals are subsequently separated out a second chamber is used to react the alkali metal with the naphthenic acid and the acid products are subsequently separated out and then a third chamber used to react the alkali metal with the heteroatoms and the sulfur nitrogen products are subsequently separated out . Of course if different chambers were used for each of these reactions the reaction conditions such as pressure temperature flow rates etc. could be adjusted tailored to optimize each specific reaction.

In the embodiments shown in the alkali metal is shown being added to the chamber . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that there are a variety of different ways by which the alkali metal may be added in order to induce a reaction. For example a sample of the alkali metal may simply be added to the chamber . However many in the oil processing industry are uncomfortable handling metallic sodium or other metallic alkali metals because of their reactive nature. Thus other embodiments may be designed in which the alkali metal is formed in situ within the chamber from alkali metals ions. In other words alkali metal ions are added to the chamber which are safe and easy to handle and then such ions are reduced back to the metallic state via an electrochemical reduction reaction. Once these alkali metal ions have been reduced in situ to form the metallic alkali metal these formed alkali metals immediately react with the oil feedstock in the manner outlined herein and are thus consumed almost instantaneously after formation. The embodiments that electrochemically form the alkali metal in situ can be advantageous in that they provide the strong reducing power and reactivity of alkali metal to the oil feedstock without ever having an appreciable amount of the metal present.

Referring now to an embodiment of a device that may be used to de acidify oil feedstocks as well as remove the heteroatoms heavy metals and or upgrade the feedstock is illustrated. Specifically the device consists of at least two chambers namely a feedstock chamber and an alkali metal source chamber . The feedstock chamber has an outer wall and may have an inlet and outlet .

The feedstock chamber may be separated from the alkali metal source chamber by an alkali metal ion conductive separator . The ion separator may be comprised of ceramic materials generally known as Nasicon sodium beta alumina sodium beta prime alumina or sodium ion conductive glass if the alkali metal is sodium or Lisicon lithium beta alumina lithium beta prime alumina or lithium ion conductive glass if the alkali metal is lithium. The materials used to construct the ion separator are commercially available from Ceramatec Inc. of Salt Lake City Utah.

A cathode which is negatively charged and connected to a power source via wires may be at least partially housed within the feedstock chamber . Preferably the cathode is located in close proximity to the ion separator to minimize ionic resistance. The cathode may be contacting the ion separator as shown in or screen printed on the ion separator . In other embodiments the cathode may be integrated with the ion separator as disclosed in U.S. Patent Publication 2010 0297537 entitled ELECTROCHEMICAL CELL COMPRISING IONICALLY CONDUCTIVE MEMBRANE AND POROUS MULTIPHASE ELECTRODE which patent application is expressly incorporated herein by reference. By placing the cathode on or near the ion separator the oil feedstock does not necessarily have to be ionically conducting in order to transfer ions charges.

The alkali metal source chamber has an outer wall and may have an inlet and outlet . An anode which is positively charged and connected to the power source via wires may be at least partially housed within the source chamber . Suitable materials for the cathode include materials comprising carbon graphite nickel iron which are electronically conductive. Suitable materials for the anode include materials comprising titanium platinized titanium carbon graphite. In the embodiment shown in the cathode and the anode are connected to the same power supply . Further shows the wires exiting the chambers via inlets . Such depictions are made for clarity and are not limiting. Those skilled in the art will appreciate how the power source wires may be otherwise arranged in order to connect to the cathode and or the anode . Likewise those skilled in the art will appreciate that the cathode and the anode may be connected to power supplies in various manners etc.

A mode of operation for the device will now be described. Specifically a first oil feedstock may enter the feedstock chamber such as for example by flowing through the inlet . Concurrently a dissolved solution of alkali metals will flow through the alkali metal source chamber . This solution of alkali metals may be for example a solution of sodium sulfide lithium sulfide sodium chloride sodium hydroxide etc. A voltage is then applied to the anode and cathode from the source . This voltage causes chemical reactions to occur. These reactions cause alkali metal ions abbreviated AM ions to pass through the ion separator . In other words the alkali metal ions flow from the alkali metal source chamber through the ion separator into the feedstock chamber .

Once the alkali metal ions such as for example sodium ions or lithium ions pass through the ion separator the ions are reduced to the alkali metal state e.g. into sodium metal or lithium metal at the cathode . Once formed the alkali metal intermixes with the feedstock as shown by arrow . As described herein the reaction between the oil feedstock and the alkali metal may involve a reaction between the acids such as naphthenic acid in the oil feedstock . Thus the reaction with the alkali metal which was formed in situ within the chamber operates to reduce the acid content in the oil feedstock thereby reducing the TAN value of the oil feedstock .

Additionally and or alternatively the reaction between the oil feedstock and the alkali metal formed within the chamber may cause a reaction with the sulfur or nitrogen moieties within the oil feedstock . This reaction may also reduce heavy metals such as vanadium and nickel in the feedstock . Further as explained in the 874 application at an elevated temperature and elevated pressure the reaction between alkali metals and the heteroatoms S N forces the sulfur and nitrogen heteroatoms to be reduced by the alkali metals into ionic salts such as NaS NaN LiS etc. . These ionic salts may then be removed from the oil feedstock . As such the content of sulfur and nitrogen within the oil feedstock may be significantly reduced by the reaction of the alkali metal formed within the chamber . In other words the heteroatom to carbon ratio of the upgraded oil feedstock may be less than the heteroatom to carbon ratio of the original unreacted oil feedstock. Also the amount of heavy metals in the feedstock may further be reduced. Thus the ratio of carbon to heavy metals in the upgraded reacted feedstock is less than the ratio of carbon to heavy metals in the original unreacted feedstock.

Further in addition to the oil feedstock the chamber may also include a quantity of an upgradant hydrocarbon that reacts with the oil feedstock as shown by arrow . Specifically as taught by the 874 application when the sulfur nitrogen moieties of the oil feedstock react with the alkali metals radical species are formed that may react with the upgradant hydrocarbon . In some embodiments the upgradant hydrocarbon may be hydrogen gas including the hydrogen gas formed by the reaction with naphthenic acid. It should be noted that if hydrogen is used as the hydrocarbon the amount of hydrogen needed is less than the amount of hydrogen that would be required if a typical hydrotreatment process were utilized . In other embodiments the upgradant hydrocarbon comprises natural gas shale gas and or mixtures thereof methane ethane propane butane pentane their isomers ethene propene butene pentene dienes and or mixtures thereof. As explained in the 874 application this reaction with the upgradant hydrocarbon may operate to produce an upgraded hydrocarbon that has a greater hydrogen to carbon ratio than the original oil feedstock . The upgraded oil feedstock produced in the reaction may also have a greater energy value than the original oil feedstock . Typically the presence of upgradant hydrocarbon may result in a reduction of formation of insoluble solids during the reaction. It is believed that these solids are large organic polymers that are formed as part of the radical reactions. However by using the upgradant hydrocarbon this hydrocarbon acts as a capping species that prevents the formation of these solid organic polymers. Thus by using the hydrocarbon the subsequent yield of the liquid oil feedstock e.g. the desired product may be increased.

The reactions described in may be conducted at elevated temperatures. For example the reactions may occur at temperatures above the melting temperature of sodium or at higher temperatures found effective for the particular feedstock. The mode of operation of the device may further consist of using molten sodium as the sodium source in the alkali metal source chamber or lithium metal as the lithium source. The reactions may further be conducted at elevated pressure for example in the 300 2000 pounds per square inch range.

In some embodiments the oil feedstock may be passed through the device as the solution of sodium sulfide also passed through . Once passed through the device the oil feedstock may flow into another vessel operated at a different temperature and pressure e.g. temperatures and pressures more conducive to the reactions desired and where the residence time of the feedstock in the second vessel size is matched to the reaction kinetics and flow rates .

As described herein various solids inorganic compounds etc. may be formed when performing the reactions outlined herein. These inorganic products may comprise NaS NaN heavy metals and solid organic polymers that are formed by the radical reactions. In order to deal with these inorganic compounds the process used in conjunction with the device of may further involve filtering or separating by centrifugal forces the feedstock after it has been exposed to the sodium for sufficient time to remove solids from the liquids. This separation may involve the use of a separator as described below.

The oil feedstock alkali metal solution and other components of the device may be dissolved in a polar solvent such as Formamide Methyl formamide Dimethyl formamide Acetamide Methyl acetamide Dimethyl acetamide Triethylamine Diethyl acetamide Ethylene glycol Diethylene glycol Triethylene glycol Tetraethylene glycol Ethylene Carbonate Propylene Carbonate Dimethylpropyleneurea Butylene Carbonate Cyclohexanol 1 3 Cyclohexanediol 1 2 Ethanediol 1 2 Propanediol Ethanolamine Methyl sulfoxide Dimethyl sulfoxide Tetramethylene sulfoxide Sulfolane Gamma butyrolactone Nitrobenzene Acetonitrile Pyridine quinoline ammonia ionic liquids or molten fused salts. For example the alkali metal solution may be dissolved in one or more of these solvents and then be allowed to flow into the alkali metal source chamber . The salts that are used for the alkali metal solution may be alkali metal chlorides hydroxides phosphates carbonates sulfides and the like. Similarly such solvents may be used with the oil feedstock and or the hydrocarbon and then the mixture may be allowed to flow into the chamber .

Depending on the alkali metal source e.g. the alkali metal solution the anode reaction in the alkali metal source chamber may vary. For example sulfides may form polysulfides and or elemental sulfur chlorides may form chlorine gas hydroxides may form oxygen gas carbonates may form oxygen gas and evolve carbon dioxide and the like. If the alkali metal source is an alkali metal metal ions will simply form. These variations constitute different embodiments. Gas handling and recovery may be a part of the overall process.

As shown in the products formed in the oil feedstock chamber may be sent to a product separator as shown by arrow . In this product separator the inorganic products may form a phase that is separable from an organic phase that comprises the upgraded oil feedstock and or unreacted oil feedstock. To facilitate this separation a flux may be added to the product separator. Those skilled in the art are familiar with the materials that may be used as the flux that will facilitate separation between the organic feedstock materials and the inorganic products. After separation the alkali metal from the inorganic products may be regenerated and reused. In some embodiments the product separator may be a settling chamber or other similar structure.

Thus as indicated herein there are at least three different processes as part of this invention for de acidifying these streams 

In the case of acid removal there may not be any reason to add an upgradant hydrocarbon gas to the feedstock chamber with the cathode since hydrogen gas may be a byproduct. As such this formed hydrogen may act as the upgradant hydrocarbon . If heteroatoms such as sulfur or nitrogen are present an upgradent gas such as hydrogen natural gas shale gas and or mixtures thereof may be needed.

It should also be noted that the addition of the alkali metal may not simply neutralize the acidic hydrogen in the naphthenic acid. Specifically naphthenic acid has the structure R COOH. In some embodiments the alkali metal may react with the oxygen atoms in addition to the hydrogen atoms such that the remaining hydrocarbon after the alkali metal addition has the structure R CH R H etc. The reason for this is that the alkali metal may also reduce the oxygen moiety as well as the hydrogen moiety. The formed inorganic products may thus include NaOH NaO etc. As noted above after reaction with the alkali metal the TAN value of the feedstock is reduced. However given the above recited reactions with the oxygen moieties the TAN value may not be increased or returned to its original state by simply reacting the de acidified oil feedstock with base such as NaOH . Rather as described herein the reduction of the TAN value may also operate to convert the naphthenic or other acid groups into pure hydrocarbon functional groups such as is R CH R H etc. .

Referring now to another embodiment of a device is illustrated. Specifically the device may be used to upgrade an oil feedstock . More specifically the feedstock may be upgraded by having the feedstock be de acidified desulfurized demetalized and denitrogenized. In other words the device is operable to remove sulfur heavy metals acids such as naphthenic acid and nitrogen from the oil feedstock .

The embodiment of the device that is shown in is similar to that which is shown and described in . For purposes of brevity much of this discussion will be omitted. However for clarity the wires and the power source are not shown in . However those skilled in the art will appreciate that such structures are indeed present and may be necessary in order to conduct the electrolytic reactions associated with the device .

As described herein the oil feedstock shown in may include quantities of heavy metals naphthenic acid and at least one heteroatom e.g. nitrogen and sulfur . Accordingly such materials may be removed from the oil feedstock using the methods outlined herein. Specifically the oil feedstock is contacted with quantities of alkali metals . The arrows are designed to represent the reactions between the alkali metals and the oil feedstock . More specifically the feedstock may be contacted with a first quantity of an alkali metal . The reaction between the first quantity of the alkali metal and the feedstock is such that the alkali metal reacts with the heavy metals that are in the feedstock . This reacted feedstock may then exit the chamber and may pass through a product separator . The purpose of the product separator is to remove the heavy metals from the oil feedstock. These heavy metals may then be recovered sold etc.

As shown by after passing through the product separator the feedstock minus the heavy metals which were previously removed may be brought back into the chamber . This chamber may be the same chamber that was previously used to remove the heavy metals or it may be a chamber of a different device that is positioned downstream from the product separator .

Once in the chamber the oil feedstock which has had the heavy metals removed may then be reacted with a second quantity of the alkali metal . This time the alkali metal reacts with the naphthenic acid to form a de acidified oil feedstock wherein a TAN value of the unreacted oil feedstock is less than a TAN value of the de acidified oil feedstock. Again after the acids have been reacted the reacted oil feedstock may be sent to the product separator which may operate to remove the inorganic materials that were formed during the reaction with the second quantity of alkali metals . This separation of inorganic materials may occur within the same product separator that was used to remove the heavy metals or may be conducted in a different separator product .

After passing through the product separator the feedstock minus the heavy metals and the naphthenic acids which were previously removed may be brought back into the chamber . This chamber may be the same chamber that was previously used to remove the heavy metals naphthenic acids or it may be a chamber of a different device that is positioned downstream from the product separator . Once in the chamber the oil feedstock which has had the heavy metals naphthenic acids removed may then be reacted with a third quantity of the alkali metal . This reaction with the third quantity of the alkali metal removes at least one heteroatom e.g. N S from the feedstock to form an upgraded oil feedstock. The heteroatom to carbon ratio of the upgraded oil feedstock is less than a heteroatom to carbon ratio of the oil feedstock. Once again this product may then pass through a product separator to remove the inorganic materials and or N S moieties from the oil feedstock thereby resulting in an upgraded oil feedstock.

It should be noted that the alkali metal quantities in were introduced using the method of the device e.g. by having alkali metal ions pass through the ion separator and then be reduced to the metallic state in situ within the chamber . Of course other embodiments may be designed in which one or more of the alkali metal quantities are introduced directly into the oil feedstock e.g. without having the metal be formed via a reduction reaction . The different quantities of the alkali metals may be the same alkali metal or may be different alkali metals.

Referring now to a flow diagram of a method that may be used to upgrade a quantity of a first oil feedstock is shown. Specifically the quantity of the oil feedstock may be obtained. This oil feedstock may include quantities of heavy metals acids such as napthenlic acid and or one or more heteroatoms such as sulfur and nitrogen moieties . In order to upgrade the oil feedstock these metals heteroatoms acids may be removed from the oil feedstock . Specifically the quantity of the oil feedstock may be added to a chamber . This chamber may be referred to as a de metalization chamber in that the heavy metals are removed from the oil feedstock in this chamber . In some embodiments the chamber may be an oil feedstock chamber of the type described above. However in other embodiments the chamber may simply be another type of vessel that is designed to remove metals from the oil feedstock . In order to remove the metals from the oil feedstock a quantity of alkali metals such as alkali metals shown in may be added to the feedstock . Once the reaction has occurred the products may be placed within a product separator . Those skilled in the art will appreciate the types of devices such as a settling chamber that may be used as the product separator . In this product separator heavy metals are separated out leaving only a quantity of de metalized oil feedstock

This oil feedstock may then be added to a chamber . The chamber may be the same chamber as the chamber e.g. the oil feedstock material is re inserted into the chamber or it may be a different vessel. The chamber may be referred to as a de acidification chamber in that the oil feedstock may be de acidified in this chamber . In order to conduct this reaction the oil feedstock is reacted with a quantity of an alkali metal such as second quantity of the alkali metal shown in . This reaction with the alkali metal reacts with the naphthenic acid in the feedstock . More specifically the alkali metal eliminates the naphthenic acid such that the reacted oil feedstock has a TAN value that is less than the TAN value of the unreacted oil feedstock

Once the reaction has occurred the products may be placed within a product separator . Those skilled in the art will appreciate the types of devices such as a settling chamber that may be used as the product separator . The product separator may be the same structure as the product separator or may be a different element. In this product separator inorganic acid products are separated out leaving only a quantity of de acidified oil feedstock

This de acidified oil feedstock which has also been de metalized may then be added to a chamber . This chamber may be the same as either or both of the chambers or in other embodiments the chamber may be a different chamber than the chambers . This chamber may be referred to as a de sulfurization chamber in that sulfur moieties from the oil feedstock may be removed. More specifically an alkali metal such as a third quantity of the alkali metal may be added to react with the oil feedstock. More specifically this reaction involves reacting the alkali metal with a heteroatom such as sulfur. This reaction is described above . Once reacted the products may be added to a product separator which operates to remove inorganic sulfur products from the oil feedstock thereby producing de sulfurized feedstock

This feedstock may further be added to a chamber . This chamber may be the same as or different than the chambers . In this chamber heteroatoms such as nitrogen are removed from the oil feedstock by reacting the feedstock with an alkali metal quantity such as for example alkali metal of . After this reaction has occurred the inorganic nitrogen products may be removed via product separator which may be the same as or a different structure than the product separators . The resulting oil feedstock after all of these products have been removed may be classified as an upgraded oil feedstock

In the embodiment shown in the reactions with the sulfur moieties and the nitrogen moieties e.g. heteroatoms are shown as different steps. Those skilled in the art will recognize that other embodiments may involve a single step e.g. a single addition of a third quantity of an alkali metal to eliminate all of the S and N heteroatoms. If the sulfur and nitrogen are eliminated together via a single addition of alkali metal embodiments may be designed in which up to 80 of the sulfur may be removed from the oil feedstock before the nitrogen moieties begin to react with the alkali metal. It is also understood that depending on the actual operating conditions and nature of the feedstock the order in which the various species are removed may differ from the order illustrated in .

Referring now to another embodiment of a system for upgrading an oil feedstock is shown. It should be noted that the system includes many of the same features that are associated with the device of . For purposes of brevity much of this discussion will be omitted. However for clarity the wires and the power source are not shown in . However those skilled in the art will appreciate that such structures are indeed present and may be necessary in order to conduct the electrolytic reactions associated with the system .

In the embodiment of a quantity of a first oil feedstock is added to a TAN reduction chamber . This chamber is a chamber into which an alkali metal in its metallic form may be added. This addition of the alkali metal to the feedstock operates to eliminate naphthenic acid in the feedstock . Accordingly the TAN value of the feedstock after it has been reacted in the TAN reduction vessel is significantly reduced. A separator which is not shown in may be used to remove the formed inorganic materials from the feedstock. The feedstock leaving this chamber may be referred to as de acidified oil feedstock

The de acidified feedstock may be added to a chamber so that it may be exposed to alkali metal thereby eliminating the heteroatoms and or the heavy metals in the feedstock . Thus shows an embodiment in which the chamber used to reduce the TAN value is separate from the chamber that is used to de nitrogenize de sulfurize the feedstock. Thus as shown by the temperature and pressure and flow rate for optimal TAN reduction may be used in the TAN vessel and then different temperatures pressures flow rates etc. may be used in the chamber for the other chemical reactions. These different temperatures pressures flow rates may be matched to the reaction kinetics of the specific reactions.

The embodiment shown in illustrates that there is a significant amount of flexibility associated with the present embodiments. For example as shown in there may be a TAN reduction chamber that is designed to reduce the TAN value of the oil feedstock. Once this TAN value has been reduced for example to a value that is less than or equal to 1 then other processes may be used to eliminate the heteroatoms heavy metals etc. associated with the oil feedstock. Thus the owner of the oil feedstock can design a system that will be appropriate for processing their particular sample of hydrocarbon material.

Once the heteroatoms heavy metals have been removed by the chamber the oil feedstock may flow out of the chamber . This oil feedstock will be referred to as upgraded oil feedstock

Further those skilled in the art will appreciate that the amount of alkali metal that is needed to reduce the TAN value below 1 to remove the heteroatoms to react with the heavy metals etc. will depend upon the particular sample of oil feedstock hydrocarbon material. Accordingly by performing testing on the sample oil feedstock a skilled artisan can determine how much alkali metal may be needed to upgrade the oil feedstock.

All the patent applications and patents listed herein are expressly incorporated herein by reference.

