---

title: Generic approach for synthesizing asymmetric nanoparticles and nanoassemblies
abstract: A generic route for synthesis of asymmetric nanostructures. This approach utilizes submicron magnetic particles (FeO—SiO) as recyclable solid substrates for the assembly of asymmetric nanostructures and purification of the final product. Importantly, an additional SiOlayer is employed as a mediation layer to allow for selective modification of target nanoparticles. The partially patched nanoparticles are used as building blocks for different kinds of complex asymmetric nanostructures that cannot be fabricated by conventional approaches. The potential applications such as ultra-sensitive substrates for surface enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) have been included.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09040158&OS=09040158&RS=09040158
owner: UChicago Argonne LLC
number: 09040158
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120918
---
The United States Government has rights in the invention described herein pursuant to Contract No. DE AC02 06CH11357 between the United States Department of Energy and UChicago Argonne LLC as operator of Argonne National Laboratory.

The present invention generally relates a generic approach for the preparation of asymmetric nanoparticles and nanoassemblies in terms of morphologies compositions surface chemistries and functionalities. More specifically the present invention relates to the utilization of recyclable magnetic colloidal particles as unique nano reactors for the scalable synthesis of asymmetric nanoparticles and nanoassemblies based on a selective physical confinement. The potential applications of the asymmetric nanostructures such as surface enhanced Raman scattering SERS are also included in this invention.

Controlled assembly of nanoparticles into dimers and complex nanoclusters with asymmetric configurations in terms of geometries and compositions is of great interest because of their novel properties and possible promising applications e.g. biosensing labeling display catalysis etc. . For example dimers made of either uniform Ag nanoparticles or Au nanoparticles have been demonstrated to be a class of promising surface enhanced Raman scattering SERS substrates due to the creation of hot spots between individual nanoparticles in each dimer. In these dimers made of equivalent particles also called homodimers electromagnetic coupling between the surface plasmon resonances SPRs of the individual nanoparticles results in the enhancement of the optically allowed in phase mode while the out of phase mode is dark due to the cancellation of the equivalent dipole moments. In contrast the dimers made of non equivalent nanoparticles e.g. Ag Au nanoparticle heterodimers enables the observation of both in phase and out of phase modes. In addition to optically active nanoparticles made of noble metals various nanoparticles can be integrated through controlled assembly to form hybrid nanoclusters with multiple functionalities. Near field coupling between different components in the nanoclusters may also lead to new properties that do not exist in individual nanoparticles.

Some progress has been made in controlling assembly of colloidal nanoparticles into specific clusters. One route is that dimers and clusters can be fabricated by spontaneous aggregation of nanoparticles when tuning the stabilities of colloidal nanoparticles. For instance citrate stabilized Au nanoparticles can form aggregated clusters upon addition of HCl to the nanoparticle dispersions to reduce stability of the Au nanoparticles. Amphiphilic nanoparticles capped with both hydrophilic and hydrophobic polymers can also be driven to assemble into dimers by tuning the hydrophobicity of solvents. Due to the absence of specific chemical bonding between the individual nanoparticles in the aggregated clusters additional encapsulation process with amorphous shells e.g. SiO polymer is usually necessary to fix the clusters. An alternative approach of for assembled clusters with increased stability relies on the modification of the nanoparticle surfaces with linker molecules that can bind nanoparticles together. In the pioneering work demonstrated by Alivisatos and Mirkin DNA modified Au nanoparticles can assemble into dimers trimmers and larger structures through the specific hybridization of the complementary single stranded DNA molecules. Novak and Feldheim have also assembled Au nanoparticles into clusters of dimers trimmers and tetramers with the use of rigid thiol functionalized phenylacetylenes as molecular links and templates. Apparently it is difficult to synthesize specific clusters with high yield through this approach the complete coverage of linker molecules on the surfaces of Au nanoparticles passivates the nanoparticle surfaces due to the strong bonding usually S Au covalent bonds between the linker molecules and the Au surfaces. Such surface passivation leads to the hindrance to deposit other functional molecules on the Au nanoparticles for further applications.

To overcome the limitations an attractive strategy is developed to selectively decorate the partial surface of a source nanoparticle with synthetic organic or biological molecules to form binding patches that can specifically bond with other nanoparticles. The remaining unmodified surface of the source nanoparticle is still active for deposition of interesting species. In order to creating the asymmetric chemistries on the surface of a source nanoparticle the surface of the nanoparticle has to be partially hidden when it is exposed to linker molecules. One straightforward approach is to deposit nanoparticles on a solid substrate. The physical contacts between the nanoparticles and the substrate prevent the graft of linker molecules on the contact surfaces leading to formation of binding patches only on the regions that exposed. Re disperse the patched nanoparticles in appropriate solvents and mix with other nanoparticles may facilitate the assembly of them into dimers and high level clusters with improved yield and purity. However the ratio of different surface patches in nanoscale is difficult to tune by a cost effective manner and scalability of this method is limited by the sizes of the solid substrates.

One embodiment of the invention relates to a method of making asymmetric nanostructures with the use of a colloidal magnetic particle as a reactor. A superparamagnetic core if provided. The magnetic core is coated with a shell layer. A plurality of a first component are associated with the coated magnetic core. A mediation layer is added the thickness of the meditation layer being less than the diameter of at least a subset the plurality of first component each first component in the subset having an exposed portion outside of the mediation layer. Each exposed portion is modified. The shell layer and mediation layer are removed. The nanostructures are formed comprising the first component and the second component.

In one embodiment the present invention relates to a composition of matter. The composition of matter includes a core and a mediation layer coating the core. A plurality of seeds are associated with the core and substantially evenly dispersed about the core partially embedded in the mediation layer.

In one embodiment the present invention relates to a method of synthesizing nanostructures. A first SiOlayer is deposited on a core particle. A first component is attached to the first SiOlayer. A second SiOlayer is deposited on the first SiOlayer the second SiOlayer having a thickness less than the diameter of the first component and the first component partially embedded in the second SiOlayer. A second component is attached to the first component. The nanostructures comprise the first component and the second component.

Additional features advantages and embodiments of the present disclosure may be set forth from consideration of the following detailed description drawings and claims. Moreover it is to be understood that both the foregoing summary of the present disclosure and the following detailed description are exemplary and intended to provide further explanation without further limiting the scope of the present disclosure claimed.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the figures can be arranged substituted combined and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated and made part of this disclosure.

A proposed generic technique for fabricating asymmetric nanostructures which may include but is not limited to nanoparticles nanoassemblies and the like is based on the use of colloidal magnetic core shell particles e.g. FeO SiO as the sub micron solid substrates to assist the asymmetric modification of nanoparticle surfaces together with a controlled physical confinement. For certain embodiments the key feature is that the nanoparticles deposited on the core shell particles can be partially embedded in a shell matrix mediation layer e.g. SiO by growing an additional shell layer SiO on the core shell particles. The thickness of the shell layer e.g. SiO can be tuned at nanometer scale indicating the ratio of different surface patches on the nanoparticles can be precisely tuned. It allows for the capability to precisely control the surfaces of the nanoparticles that can be exposed to linker molecules. Importantly the core shell particles with sub micrometer dimensions exhibit much larger surface areas for modification of nanoparticles in comparison with the conventional solid substrates. In addition the core shell particles can well disperse in appropriate solvent to be compatible with the scalable solution phase synthesis. This technique with the controllability at the nanometer precision provides an opportunity to fabricate with the needs which afford advancement of complex nanostructures and serves as a tool to construct designed asymmetric nanoassemblies in a rational and controllable manner.

Certain embodiments of the invention relate to a generic approach for the synthesis of asymmetric nanoparticles and nanoassemblies in terms of compositions shapes sizes and functionalities with the use of a superparamagnetic core. In one embodiment a magnetic FeO SiOcore shell colloidal particles is used as a unique reaction platform. In this approach selected nanoparticles are partially embedded in a SiOmatrix by selectively depositing a SiOlayer with controlled thickness on the magnetic colloidal particles. In one embodiment amorphous SiOwith designed thickness is used as the mediation layer to strongly bond magnetic FeOcores and individual nanoparticles. For certain embodiments the additional SiOlayer is crucial in the designed process because this secondary thin layer of SiOcan facilitate the selective modification of these partially embedded nanoparticles.

In the illustrated embodiments the superparamagentic core comprises FeO though it should be appreciated that other particles that exhibit superparamagnetism such as magnetic ferrite MFeO M Co Ni Mn nanoparticles and metallic nanoparticles made of Fe Co CoFe may be utilized. Ideally the core size can be from tens of nanometer to micro meters. In the illustrated embodiments the shell comprises SiO though it should be appreciated that alternative layers capable of binding to the selected superparamagnetic core and forming a mediation layer may be utilized. In addition although the use of tetraethyl orthosilicate TEOS for the formation of the SiOlayer is described there are many substitutions such as but not limited to tetramethyl orthosilicate TMOS tetrapropyl orthosilicate TPOS tetrabutyl orthosilicate TBOS that can be utilized to provide a silicate source and hydrolyze into SiO. The seed utilized in the illustrated examples is gold but it should be appreciated that other nanoparticles that can associate with the core shell particle can be utilized including but not limited to metals e.g. Ag Pt Pd oxides e.g. TiO2 semiconductors e.g. CdSe CdS halides e.g. NaYF et al. In the examples provided herein the surface treatment of the core shell is to provide amino groups on the shell to enable bonding of the seed Au . Different molecules can be used as the linker molecules according to the composition of particles which are not limited to those with amino groups. The type of surface treatment should be selected to enable the selected seeds to bind with the selected shells. In one embodiment the seeds are buried between 0 99 within the shells preferably greater than 50 .

One embodiment of an assembly scheme is illustrated in . The scheme shown in can be used to form binding patches on Au nanoparticles followed by assembling them into dimers. The approach starts with synthesis of superparamagnetic FeOcolloidal particles through a high temperature hydrolysis and reduction of FeClin diethylene glycol as reported elsewhere. e.g. Ge J. Hu Y. Biasini M. Beyermann W. P. Yin Y. 2007 46 4342 4345 added here as reference. The FeOparticles are then coated with an amorphous SiOlayer through a modified St ber reaction that involves the hydrolysis of tetraethylorthosilicate TEOS step I .

The resulting FeO SiOcore shell particles are then modified with 3 aminopropyl triethoxysilane APTS in an isopropanol solution to render the particle surfaces with amino groups NH . Mixing the modified core shell particles with a dispersion of citrate stabilized Au nanoparticles leads to the adsorption of Au nanoparticles on the surfaces of FeO SiOcore shell particles due to the strong chemical bonding between Au atoms and N atoms in the amino groups step II . Placing the dispersion in a magnetic field can easily separate the composite particles and excessive free Au nanoparticles.

Due to the significant difference in surface chemistry between Au and SiO an additional SiOlayer i.e. the second SiOlayer only on the SiOshell can be selectively deposited by repeating the St ber reaction in the dispersion of purified FeO SiOcore shell particles decorated with Au nanoparticles. It allows for the partial embedding of Au nanoparticles in the SiOmatrix step III when its thickness is less than the diameter of the Au nanoparticles leaving partial surfaces of the Au nanoparticles exposed to the solution environment. The thickness of the second SiOlayer can be precisely tuned at the nanometer scale by controlling the reaction conditions guarantying the surfaces of Au nanoparticles to be exposed at a pre defined ratio. The thickness can be well controlled by the concentration of TEOS and the reaction time at the coating step III.

Next the partially embedded A nanoparticles also called seeds are modified such as by addition of a linker component which is able to direct the binding of additional particles or plating or growth of the seeds from the exposed portions of the seeds. As illustrated in the core shell seed complex may be modified with a linker molecule. Adding an aqueous solution of cysteamine HS CH CH NH to the dispersion of composite particles results in the selective graft of cysteamine molecules on the exposed Au surfaces due to the formation of strong covalent bonds between Au atoms and the SH groups step IV . The dangling amino tails of the cysteamine molecules extrude from the Au nanoparticle surfaces to exhibit activity towards interaction with other Au surfaces.

A second component B which may be free standing seed nanoparticles in certain embodiments is then attached. As designed the cysteamine molecules can serve as linkers to bind the free standing Au nanoparticles to the partially embedded Au nanoparticles in the SiOmatrix once the composite particles are mixed with the free standing citrate stabilized Au nanoparticles step V . The excess freestanding Au nanoparticles can be easily removed by applying an external magnetic field to selectively concentrate and purify the composite particles.

Then addition of an appropriate amount of NaOH aqueous solution dissolves the SiOand release the dimers made of Au nanoparticles after a removal of FeOparticles by a magnetic field VI . The FeOparticles can be collected and reused in the new synthesis. Involvement of the superparamagnetic FeOparticles in the synthesis is crucial for improving yield and purity of the final Au nanoparticle dimers because of the high selectivity and efficiency of magnetic separation.

The TEM image shown in represents the particles derived from the particles shown in after selective surface modification with cysteamine step IV and attachment of free citrate stabilized 15 nm Au nanoparticles are performed step V . The image of clearly highlights that only one Au nanoparticle is attached to one embedded Au nanoparticle. The increased density of Au nanoparticles in in comparison with that in can act as a demonstration that additional Au nanoparticles link to the Au nanoparticles immobilized on the FeO SiOcolloidal substrates. The irregular contrast profiles in TEM images originate from the projection overlaps of multiple Au nanoparticles. The successful linking of free Au nanoparticles to the embedded Au nanoparticles can be further confirmed with SEM images that are similar to those of the composite particles formed before the deposition of the second SiOlayer i.e. the particles formed after step II . The morphological similarity indicates the high yield of one to one binding between Au nanoparticles. In contrast the composite particles obtained before the modification with cysteamine shows that surfaces of the composite particles are essentially smooth indicating that the Au nanoparticles are almost fully embedded in the SiOlayer inset . Only the very top surfaces of the Au nanoparticles are exposed if a close inspection is taken. This result is consistent with the non uniformity in size of the Au nanoparticles. Only the Au nanoparticles with sizes larger than the thickness i.e. 14 nm of the second SiOlayer can partially expose their surfaces while the Au nanoparticles smaller than 14 nm are completely covered with the second SiOlayer.

Due to strong surface plasmon resonance SPR Au nanoparticles exhibit intensive optical absorption that is influenced by a number of parameters including the aggregation state between Au nanoparticles. As a result dimerization of the Au nanoparticles can be evaluated with the ultraviolet UV visible vis near infrared NIR spectroscopy. The dispersion of the composite particles shown in i.e. the FeO SiOcore shell particles decorated with Au nanoparticles that are embedded in SiOmatrix displays a light brick red color with broad absorption peaks at 411 nm and 534 nm assigned to the absorption of the FeOcores and the embedded Au nanoparticles respectively cross symbols . When additional Au nanoparticles are bonded to the embedded Au nanoparticles to form dimers as shown in and the dispersion of the composite particles undergoes a color change to light brick purple corresponding to redshift of the absorption peaks and the emergence of a broad shoulder in the range of 650 750 nm solid line . The shift of the peak from 534 nm to 550 nm is attributed to the change in the local dielectric environment around the Au nanoparticles that influences their SPR band. The appearance of the shoulder peak at longer wavelength is ascribed to the longitudinal SPR mode in the dimers due to the electromagnetic dipole coupling between the two Au nanoparticles in each dimer.

The dimers consisting of same Au nanoparticles can be released from the composite particles shown in by dissolving SiOwith sodium hydroxide NaOH etching. The FeOcores can be easily separated and removed with the assistance of a magnetic field leaving a dispersion of only Au nanoparticles as shown in . Dimers highlighted with cycles and ellipses represent the dominating structures in the product although isolated individual Au nanoparticles and clusters made of more two Au nanoparticles are also observed. An enlarged TEM image of a single Au dimer is presented in clearly showing a thin layer of silicates coated on the surfaces of the Au nanoparticles. The layer of silicates is formed during the sample drying process as residual silicates that are formed from the dissolution of SiOhighlighted by step VI in solution are concentrated around the dimer surface. The absence of silicates in the gap between the two Au nanoparticles further proves that the dimers are indeed formed by linker induced assembly in solution rather than on the substrates during drying. The gap between Au nanoparticles in each dimer is less than 1 nm corresponding to the use of small linker molecules i.e. cysteamine .

A representative statistical analysis is shown in revealing the product is composed of 36 single Au nanoparticles 54 dimers and 10 of larger clusters with three or more Au nanoparticles. The yield of dimers is comparable to the best results reported in literature and can be further improved by improving the uniformity of Au nanoparticles. In this work the Au nanoparticles exhibit a size distribution in the range of 13 17 nm. For the Au nanoparticles with sizes smaller than the thickness of the second SiOlayer i.e. 14 nm they are completely embedded in the SiOmatrix preventing them from accessing other Au nanoparticles to from dimers. As a result these small nanoparticles with sizes 

In one embodiment dimers may be made of nonequivalent nanoparticles such as Au nanoparticles. In the process shown in the Au nanoparticles used at step II and step V can be independent changed to form asymmetric dimers made of differently sized Au nanoparticles and differently shaped Au nanoparticles. For example presents a typical TEM image of the asymmetric Au dimers made of Au nanoparticles with size of 33 nm and Au nanoparticles with size of 15 nm. This sample is synthesized through the process similar to that used for the sample shown in except 33 nm Au nanoparticles are used at step V of . Instead of the 33 nm Au nanoparticles addition of Au nanorods to the synthesis solution at step V leads to the formation of asymmetric dimers shown in . In each dimer the Au nanoparticle attach to one end of the Au nanorod rather than the side surface of the nanorod. Such geometric selectivity is ascribed to the difference in reactivity between the end surfaces and side surfaces in Au nanorods. As for the Au nanorods synthesized with the assistance of cetyltrimethylammonium bromide CTAB their end surfaces are usually more reactive than their surfaces to benefit the selective formation of bonding between the cysteamine molecules with the end surfaces. Because the properties of Au nanoparticles are strongly dependent on their physical parameters including size and shape the examples shown indicate that various asymmetric Au dimers can be readily synthesized through our approach to exploit novel properties due to the coupling between the two different Au nanoparticles in each dimer.

In one embodiment compositionally hybrid dimers are made such as of Au nanoparticles and Ag nanoparticle. By choosing the appropriate linker molecules at step IV of nanoparticles of different materials can be attached to the Au nanoparticles to form hybrid dimers made of different compositions. For instance Ag nanoparticles with an average diameter of 11 nm can be attached to the 15 nm Au nanoparticles to form Au Ag hybrid dimers when tetra thiol molecules e.g. pentaerythritol tetrakis 2 mercaptoacetate are used as the linkers. Due to the steric hindrance only a fraction of the thiol groups in pentaerythritol tetrakis 2 mercaptoacetate molecules can be grafted to the exposed Au surface at step IV of . The remaining free thiol groups in the tetra thiol molecules extended in the solution to bind Ag nanoparticles added at step V of facilitating the generation of hybrid dimers with high yield . Energy dispersive x ray spectroscopy EDS has been used to confirm the hybrid compositions of the synthesized dimers. As shown in the EDS spectra of individual dimers are essentially the same and exhibit strong peaks of both Au and Ag indicating the dimers highlighted in are indeed made of hybrid compositions of Au and Ag. The existence of copper Cu peaks originates from the TEM Cu grid. compares the optical absorption spectra of the pure Ag nanoparticles cross symbols pure Au nanoparticles solid squares and the Au Ag hybrid dimers solid line . The Au Ag dimers exhibit absorption peaks close to the SPR band of both pure Ag and Au nanoparticles although these peaks red shift i.e. from 423 to 440 nm for Ag and from 530 to 535 for Au . In addition the increased broadband absorption in the range of 550 800 nm is due to the electromagnetic dipole coupling between the SPRs of the Au and Ag nanoparticles.

In one embodiment asymmetric core satellite nanoassemblies may be created. One advantage of the method shown in is that the percentage of the surfaces of the Au nanoparticles can be tuned to expose to solution for modification with linker molecules. The easiest way is to control the St ber reaction conditions e.g. reaction time precursor concentration etc. at step III to tune the thickness of the second SiOlayer. As a result novel assembly structures with tunable asymmetries can be achieved by varying the thickness of the second SiOlayer. For example multiple free Au nanoparticles can be attached to a 15 nm Au nanoparticle partially embedded in SiOmatrix when the free Au nanoparticles have sizes much less than 15 nm leading to the formation core satellite assemblies. compares the core satellite assemblies made of 15 nm Au nanoparticles as cores and 3 nm Au nanoparticles as satellites. The schematic inset in each image illustrates how deep the 15 nm Au nanoparticles are embedded in the SiOmatrix during step III of . The comparison in clearly shows that larger exposed surface area can bind more 3 nm Au nanoparticles. The number of satellites on each assembly can be finely tuned by varying the thickness of the second layer of SiO.

In one embodiment amphiphilic nanoparticles with both hydrophobic and hydrophilic surface regions can also be synthesized by following the steps of . During the fabrication hydrophobic alkyl thiol molecules e.g. 9 mercapto 1 nonanol are used to modify the citrate capped Au nanoparticles at step W. When the thiol molecules are bonded to the exposed Au surfaces through the strong S Au bonds the exposed Au surfaces switch to hydrophobic state due to the long alkyl tails of the thiol molecules. Such modification enables the composite particles to disperse in tetrahydrofuran THF that is a co solvent for hydrophobic nanoparticles. At the second step of hydrophobic nanoparticles made of varying materials in hexane are added to the THF dispersion of the composite particles. Drying the mixed dispersion directs the hydrophobic nanoparticles to assemble on the exposed hydrophobic surfaces of the Au nanoparticles due to hydrophobic hydrophobic interactions. Because hydrophobic hydrophobic interaction is a long range force multiple layers of hydrophobic nanoparticles can be assembled on each Au nanoparticles. Dissolving the SiOexposes the unmodified hydrophilic Au surfaces resulting in the freestanding amphiphilic nanoassemblies. and present the amphiphilic nanoassemblies obtained with the use of hydrophobic Au nanoparticles 4 nm and FeO Fe core shell nanoparticles. The amphiphilic feature of the nanoassemblies is further illustrated by the fact that these nanostructures are stable at the interface of water hexane . Therefore our strategy provides a simple route to fabricate novel amphiphilic asymmetric nanostructures with multiple functions that are difficult or even impossible to synthesize with conventional methods.

In one embodiment the designed approach can be utilized for the fabrication of complicated asymmetric nanoparticles and composite nanostructures other than asymmetric nanostructures by the assembly from nanoparticle building blocks. illustrates a modified approach for synthesizing tooth shaped asymmetric nanoparticles by a seeded growth of the Au seeds that are partially embedded in the magnetic submicron substrates. Images in demonstrate the corresponding steps for the fabrication of tooth shaped Au nanoparticles.

In addition more complicated structures such as magnetic raspberry shaped mesoscopic gold particles MRMGPs can be obtained if the SiOlayer has not been removed . MRMGPs can be used as excellent substrates for ultrasensitive SERS analysis of solution species. The MRMGPs offers a number of advantages over the conventional SERS substrates 1 the size of the Au nanoparticles on the MRMGPs and the inter particle gaps between the individual Au nanoparticles can be easily tuned by controlling the seed mediated plating process step III 2 the incorporation of the superparamagnetic FeOnanoparticle cores enables the concentration effect to enrich analyte species in sample solutions leading to the capability of analysis with ultra low detection limit down to femtomolar in concentration 3 the excellent dispersibility of the MRMGPs in aqueous solution and high surface area of Au nanoparticles benefits the hot spots to be fully accessible by analyte species 4 the robust synthesis of the MRMGPs enables the good reproducibility of SERS performance. Combining the ultrasensitive SERS detection with other advanced technologies such as lab on chip can provide high throughput diagnostics.

For certain embodiments the second SiOlayer deposited at step II plays the crucial role to assist the successful synthesis of stable MRMGPs. This additional SiOlayer not only glues the Au nanoparticles and the FeOcores together but also adjusts the growth of Au nanoparticles on the surfaces. For the hybrid particles synthesized the size of the Au nanoparticles can be controlled to tune the inter particle gaps for the generation of SERS hot spots and the stability has been greatly improved. Since each FeOparticle can be decorated with a large number of Au nanoparticles numerous hot spots can be formed on each hybrid particle to enhance SERS remarkably. In addition an external magnetic field can be applied to promote an increase of hot spots by which the detection limit of solution phase SERS can be further extended.

After the addition of a second coating layer e.g. a second SiOlayer the thickness of the SiOcoating has been increased by 7 nm compared with and the Au seeds are partially 50 in the illustrated embodiment embedded in the SiOmatrix . The surfaces of the Au seeds extruding out of the SiOmatrix are free of SiO inset . The preferential deposition of the second SiOlayer on the existing SiOcoating rather than on Au can be ascribed to the difference in surface chemistry between them. The exposed surfaces of the Au seeds can promote a seed mediated electroless plating to grow the seeds into larger Au nanoparticles resulting in the formation of MRMGPs with tunable gaps between adjacent Au nanoparticles .

Due to the strong surface plasmon resonance SPR of the Au nanoparticles the evolution process of MRMGPs can be monitored by continuously recording their optical absorption spectra . Before the plating proceeds a dispersion of the particles with attached Au seeds displays a brick red color with absorption peaks at 410 and 530 nm assigned to the absorption of the FeOcores and the Au seeds respectively. Once the plating reaction starts the color of the dispersion changes quickly to boysenberry then blue purple and finally dark electric blue. The color variation corresponds to the redshift of the absorption peak from 530 nm to 635 nm when the surface Au nanoparticles grow. Meanwhile a new shoulder peak gradually emerges at longer wavelength indicating the coupling of the surface plasmons between adjacent Au nanoparticles as inter particle distance decreases. Once the plating time is long enough the inter particle distance approaches zero leading to the formation of very narrow gaps between the Au nanoparticles on the surfaces of the synthesized MRMGPs and . In one embodiment the end point for growth of the desired nanoparticles is determined from spectra and TEM images. There is a correlation between the size of the inter particle distance and the observed new shoulder peak that enables one to determine when the plating should stop. Thus in one embodiment growth is based on the statistics of the distance and the amount of HAuCland related with spectra.

The gaps between Au nanoparticles on the surface of MRMGPs can be tuned by controlling the size of Au nanoparticles when the concentration of HAuClin the growth solution is determined and a defined long plating time is given. The long time plating completely consumes HAuClto automatically cease the reaction preventing the variability of the Au nanoparticles during the following separation and purification treatments. For example if the hybrid particles react with a less concentrated plating solution MRMGPs with well isolated Au nanoparticles on the surfaces can be produced exhibiting weak inter particle coupling in the absorption spectrum. In contrast an over concentrated plating solution allows the formation of MRMGPs with relative large Au nanoparticles fused together and . It should be appreciated that if the plating is allowed to continue the fusion of adjacent Au nanoparticles significantly decreases the number of narrow inter particle gaps in comparison with the sample shown in . This reduction in the number of hot spots greatly weakens the nanoparticles capability in SERS enhancement . The SERS enhancement of the MRMGPs shown in and was not as good as that with MRMGPs in prepared with 1.7 mM HAuCl4 . The reason was that the relative large gaps between Au nanoparticles in caused the poor coupling of surface plasmons between the Au nanoparticles. For the MRMGPs shown in the number of hot spots was greatly reduced when overgrown Au nanoparticles fused together.

The density of narrow gaps on MRMGPs is also strongly dependent on the thickness of the secondly deposited coating layer that stabilizes the Au seeds step II . If the second coating layer is thinner than of the diameter of the Au seeds d i.e. shallowly embedded Au seeds a large percent of Au nanoparticles may detach from the particle surfaces during the plating process step III in . The shallowly embedded Au seeds offer weak binding between the SiOmatrix and the corresponding larger Au nanoparticles. As shown in the thickness of the second SiOlayer h in the hybrid particles is 4 nm that is about d 4. The corresponding MRMGPs clearly show that many Au nanoparticles fall off and smooth SiOsurfaces are exposed. If d 3

When h d the Au seeds can be completely buried in the SiOmatrix and the seed mediated plating process cannot be initiated as no Au seed has an exposed surface outside of the coating. For instance most of the Au seeds are totally embedded after the deposition of the second SiOlayer with a thickness of 17 nm slightly larger than d . Because of the size distribution of the Au seeds a small fraction of seeds with diameters slightly larger than 17 nm still expose partial surfaces to promote the plating reaction. Only a small portion of the Au seeds grow into larger particles while the others are intact and maintain their original size as demonstrated by a backscattering SEM image of the as synthesized particles . Therefore precise deposition of second SiOlayer with desired thickness is crucial in the synthesis of MRMGPs with high density of narrow inter Au nanoparticle gaps.

Rhodamine 6G R6G a common molecule used for testing SERS activity on silver but generally hard to detect on gold substrates has been selected as a model material for evaluating SERS efficiency of the MRMGPs. As shown in direct excitation of an aqueous R6G solution 2 nM with a focused laser beam of 785 nm cannot generate detectable Raman signal open triangles . Addition of the hybrid particles formed before the plating process into the R6G solution is still not capable of enhancing the Raman signal to a detectable level open circles . Once the MRMGPs shown in are added to the R6G solution strong Raman signals can be detected dotted curve . The dramatically increased Raman intensity suggests that the hot spots are indeed generated by the narrow gaps between individual Au nanoparticles on the MRMGPs improving the Raman response of R6G adsorbed on the Au surfaces. The good dispersibility of the MRMGPs can be proved by essentially the same Raman spectra when the excitation laser is focused at different positions in the solution . The enhancement factor EF of the dispersed MRMGPs is estimated to be 0.91 10according to the intensity of the peak at 611 cmby using the Raman spectrum of R6G solution 1 mM as a reference solid line . The value of the EF is high when compared with that of Au nanoparticles solution phase SERS in literature and is comparable to the reported results on Ag nanoparticles in solutions. The observed peak at 610 cmoriginates from the in plane xanthenes ring deformation. The peak located at 1308 cm 1 corresponds to the in plane xanthenes ring breath N H bend mode and CHwag mode. The peaks at 773 and 1180 cmcorrespond to the C H out of plane bend mode and the C H in plane bend mode respectively. The C C stretching mode is reflected by the peaks at 1361 1503 and 1645 cm.

In certain embodiments further enhancement of SERS signal can be achieved when the MRMGPs are concentrated by applying an external magnetic field due to the superparamagnetic property of the FeOcores. Since R6G cations are adsorbed on the Au surfaces of the MRMGPs these target molecules can be enriched and excited by focusing the same laser beam on the concentrated MRMGPs to enhance the Raman peak intensity. In addition new hot spots can be generated between the MRMGPs after concentration with a magnet. The concentration effect leads to a further increase in Raman intensity by 2 3 orders of magnitude without any change of the measurement confirmation indicating a total enhancement on the order of 10in SERS signal solid curve versus dotted curve . In the meantime no Raman signal can be detected from the bulk solution indicating that all the MRMGPs have been concentrated. The collected MRMGPs can re disperse when the magnetic field is removed and the solution is shaken. Placing the solution in the same magnetic field enables to concentrate the MRMGPs again to generate similar Raman spectrum. The consistency of Raman spectra from different measurements shows the reproducible assembly of the concentrated MRMGPs by the magnetic field.

Analyte at ultra low concentrations e.g. femto molar can be detected by SERS with the use of the MRMGPs. The dependence of Raman response on the concentration of R6G has been studied. Because trace amount of polyvinyl pyrrolidone PVP molecules remaining on the MRMGPs produce weak Raman peaks that are close to the characteristic peaks of R6G under the same conditions the measurement spectra for solutions at low concentrations are corrected by subtracting the PVP background signal in order to highlight the contributions from R6G. plots the SERS spectra of a number of R6G solutions with different concentrations. Comparison of these spectra clearly shows that the SERS peak intensity of R6G gradually decreases as the concentration of R6G is changed from 2 nM to 2 fM . Discernable peaks can be well recognized at the concentration of 2 fM indicating that the synergic concentration effect and high SERS efficiency of the MRMGPs are promising for ultrasensitive probing of interesting species in solutions.

In one embodiment the magnetic FeO SiOcore shell particles with a second SiOmediation layer may be used to create Au Ag anisotropic nanoparticles. illustrates the use of the seeded growth of Ag on the Au seed. Dissolution of the mediation layer provides asymmetric Au Ag particles. It should be appreciated that Pt or Pd nanoparticles may also be grown on the Au seeds.

In a further embodiment a double shelled asymmetric hollow nanoparticles may be fabricated by additional seeded growth and galvanic replacement. illustrates the asymmetric nanoparticles with clear double shells.

In a further embodiment more complicated composite structures can be fabricated following the scheme shown in . In this process galvanic replacement is taken at room temperature which provides the opportunity for complicated asymmetric nanostructures. illustrates the images of the final product followed by the procedure in .

One embodiment schematically illustrated in relates to procedures for fabricating magnetic asymmetric Au solid hollow nanostructures. The core shell particle described above is modified by linker molecules. Magnetic nanoparticles are then attached to the linker molecules. The resultant particle undergoes seed growth. Galvanic replacement the provides a hallow structure. Finally dissolution of the silica layer frees the resultant assembled asymmetric magnetic noble metal hollow nanostructure.

One embodiment relates to procedures for fabricating noble metal quantum dots asymmetric assemblies illustrated in by following the procedures depicted in .

The resultant hybrid assembies may be utilized in a wide array of applications including medical imaging therapy and drug delivery. In some embodiments such as those of the nanostructures are multifunctional.

Chemicals. Ethanol denatured isopropanol 99.9 ammonium hydroxide aqueous solution 28 hexanes tetrahydrofunan THF and sodium hydroxide Certified A.C.S. grade were purchased from Fisher Scientific. 3 aminopropyl triethoxysilane APTS 99 potassium iodide KI and polyvinylpyrrolidone K12 PVP M 500 were obtained from Acros Organics. Poly acrylic acid PAA M 1800 tetraethyl orthosilicate TEOS 98 hydrogen tetrachloroaurate III trihydrate HAuCl.3HO 99.9 sodium citrate tribasic dihydrate 99 rhodamine 6G R6G cysteamine 95 9 mercapto 1 nonanol pentaerythritol tetrakis 2 mercaptoacetate and ascorbic acid were obtained from Sigma Aldrich. Polyvinylpyrrolidone K15 PVP M 10 000 was purchased from Fluka. All chemicals were used as received without further purification and treatment.

FeOnanoparticles were synthesized via a high temperature hydrolysis reaction reported previously Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 2007 46 4342 . It was accomplished through the hydrolysis and reduction of FeClin diethylene glycol DEG under a basic environment adjusted with NaOH . PAA was used as surface capping molecules to stabilize the FeOnanoparticles. The as synthesized FeOnanoparticles were then coated with silica SiO shells through a modified St ber process. Typically 20 mL of ethanol was first added to 3 mL of aqueous solution containing FeOnanoparticles 23 mg . Addition of 1 mL of ammonium hydroxide aqueous solution 28 to the nanoparticle solution adjusted the pH value of the solution. Injection of 0.1 mL of TEOS to the nanoparticle solution initiated the deposition of silica shells on the surfaces of the FeOnanoparticles. Mechanical stirring and room temperature were maintained throughout the whole process. Thickness of the resulting silica shells was determined by the reaction time. For example the particles shown were synthesized after the reaction lasted 20 minutes. The FeO SiOcore shell particles were then washed with ethanol for two times. Next the resulting core shell particles were re dispersed in 20 mL of isopropanol containing 50 L of APTS. Incubating the particles at 80 C. for 2 hours modified the outer surfaces of the silica shells with amino groups. The modified particles were then washed with isopropanol twice and re dispersed in 3 mL of deionized DI water. Finally mixing 1.5 mL of the modified core shell particles with 20 mL aqueous dispersion of citrate stabilized Au nanoparticles 2006 110 15700 under strong sonication led to the adsorption of Au nanoparticles on the FeO SiOcore shell particles. The average size of Au nanoparticles is 15 nm with a concentration of 4.8 10M based on elemental Au. The density of Au nanoparticles was dependent on the volume of Au nanoparticle solution added. For instance the sample shown in was obtained after the adsorption with 15 mL Au nanoparticle solution. The FeO SiOcore shell particles decorated with Au seeds were separated and re disperse in 1 mL of DI water. Later 1 mL of the dispersion of composite particles of FeO SiOcore shell particles decorated with Au seeds was mixed with an aqueous solution of PVP K15 20 mL 0.02 g mL under sonication. These particles were then separated with an external magnetic field and rinsed with DI water to get rid of the extra PVP molecules in the solution. The particles were then re dispersed with a solution containing ethanol 20 mL DI water 3 mL and ammonium hydroxide aqueous solution 1 mL 28 . Injection of TEOS 30 L to the dispersion resulted in the growth of a second thin silica layer only on the original SiOsurface but not on the Au nanoparticles. By adjusting the concentration of TEOS and or reaction time different ratios of the Au nanoparticle surfaces can be exposed.

Au dimers. Au nanoparticles with different sizes can be used for the fabrication of Au dimers. First FeO SiO Au SiOcomposite particles with the very top of Au surface exposed were chosen as the starting materials. Typically cysteamine 0.05 mL 0.06 g mL was selected as the linker and grafted onto the exposed Au surface by incubation with FeO SiO Au SiOcomposite particles 0.5 mL at room temperature for 40 minutes. Secondly the modified composite particles were purified by magnet and washed with DI HO three times to get rid of extra cysteamine molecules in the solution. The resulting composite particles were re dispersed in 1 mL DI HO. Addition of Au nanoparticles solution 2 mL 15 nm was followed and vortexed for 10 minutes. The mixture was incubated for another 1 hour to ensure the attachment of free Au nanoparticles onto the cysteamine modified Au surface. The final FeO SiO Au SiO Au nanostructures were separated by magnet washed with DI HO twice and re dispersed in aqueous NaOH solution 4 mL 0.05 g mL . The silica layer was etched by NaOH in one hour and FeOcores were separated by magnet leading to the collection of freestanding Au dimers Larger Au L Au nanoparticles 30 nm can be used as another component nanoparticles to fabricate Au L Au asymmetric dimers. Besides Au nanoparticle Au nanorod asymmetric dimers can be produced by utilizing Au nanorods as the assemble building blocks. illustrates representative TEM images of asymmetric heterodimers made of a Au nanoparticles with different diameters i.e. 15 nm and 30 nm and b Au nanoparticles with different morphologies i.e. spheres and rods .

The basic strategy follows the synthesis of Au dimers except that Au nanoparticles were confined with different exposure ratio on FeO SiOcolloidal substrates and small Au nanoparticles 3 nm were used as another component. Typically after FeO SiO Au SiOparticles were modified with abundant amino groups on the exposed Au surface an additional Au nanoparticles solution 2 mL 3 nm was mixed under sonication and incubated for 1 hour. Then the FeO SiO Au SiO Au composite particles were separated by magnet washed with DI HO twice and re dispersed in aqueous NaOH solution 4 mL 0.05 g mL to remove the silica layer. Au asymmetric nanoclusters were finally collected after the FeOcores were separated by magnet. present the representative TEM images of nanoassemblies of Au nanoparticles with controlled asymmetries. From to the portion of the exposed surfaces of the Au nanoparticles 15 nm in size increases leading to more Au nanoparticles with smaller sizes e.g. 3 nm to be attached to each Au nanoparticle to form core satellite nanoassemblies with different asymmetries.

The process was slightly different to the fabrication of Au dimmers. Pentaerythritol tetrakis 2 mercaptoacetate was chosen as the linker molecule to bridge the exposed Au surface on colloidal substrates to free Ag nanoparticles in the solution. Typically pentaerythritol tetrakis 2 mercaptoacetate 0.02 mL dissolve in THF 1 mL was incubated with FeO SiO Au SiOsolution 0.5 mL at room temperature for 40 minutes. Then extra pentaerythritol tetrakis 2 mercaptoacetate molecules were removed by magnetic separation washed with THF and DI HO three times. The resulting particles were re dispersed in 1 mL DI HO. Next additional Ag aqueous solution 2 mL 0.2 mM was added under sonication and the mixture was incubated for another 1 hour to ensure the attachment of free Ag nanoparticles onto the thiol grafted Au surface. The product were purified by magnetic separation washed with DI HO twice and re dispersed in aqueous NaOH solution 4 mL 0.05 g mL . Finally the silica layers in the composite structures were etched by NaOH and the FeOcores were removed by a magnet leaving Au Ag dimers in the solution. presents the characterization results of the freestanding heterodimers made of 15 nm Au nanoparticles and 8 nm silver Ag nanoparticles. is a representative TEM image of the Au Ag dimers highlighted with the ellipses. The inset highlights an individual Au Ag dimer and the scale bar is 15 nm. shows the corresponding energy dispersive x ray scattering spectroscopy EDS curve of individual Au Ag dimer clearly displaying the appearance of both characteristic peaks of Au and Ag. compares the UV vis NIR spectra of the Au Ag dimers the Au NPs and the Ag NPs.

In this modified fabrication strategy the exposed surfaces of Au nanoparticles were first grafted with hydrophobic thiolated molecules and then allow hydrophobic nanoparticles to assemble on the surface. Typically aqueous Au anchored colloidal substrates 0.5 mL was first transferred to THF 0.5 mL . Then 9 mercapto 1 nonanol molecules 0.05 mL were allowed to conjugate on the exposed surface of Au nanoparticles after incubation for 40 minutes. The resulting composite particles were separated by magnet washed with THF three times and re dispersed in THF 0.5 mL . Later hydrophobic nanoparticles component B scheme 1 dissolved in hexane such as Fe FeOcore shell nanoparticles or Au nanoparticles 0.02 mL were added into the THF solution under strong sonication. The mixture were dried by air and washed with THF three times. Finally the composite particles were dispersed in aqueous NaOH solution 4 mL 0.05 g mL to remove the silica layer leaving amphiphilic asymmetric nanostructures in solution. demonstrates representative TEM images of amphiphilic asymmetric nanostructures assembled according to the process shown .

First the FeO SiOcore shell particles decorated with Au seeds was coated with a second SiOlayer through a modified St ber method. Next the Au seeds on the particles facilitated an electroless seed mediated plating process to grow the Au seeds to form larger Au nanoparticles. In a typical plating reaction 4 mL of DI water 400 L of aqueous PVP K12 solution with a concentration of 5 in weight 400 L of aqueous KI solution 0.2 M 400 L of aqueous ascorbic acid solution 0.1 M and 30 L of aqueous HAuCl4 solution 0.1 g mL were sequentially added to a 20 mL vial under continuous magnetic stirring to form the plating solution. To the plating solution 150 L of the previously prepared particles with Au seeds was injected into the plating solution to trigger an immediate growth of the Au seeds accompanied by a significant color change from colorless to brick red boysenberry then blue purple and finally dark electric blue. After 10 min of plating reaction MRMGPs were separated from the plating solution with the assistance of an external magnetic field and washed with water. presents TEM and SEM images of the products formed during the synthesis of MRMGPs.

A JEOL 2010F s transmission electron microscope was used to characterize the morphology and interfaces of the hybrid particles formed in each step. The as synthesized particles were dispersed in ethanol to form dispersions at appropriate concentrations. To prepare a TEM sample a drop of particle dispersion was delivered to a carbon coated copper grid with the use of pipette followed by evaporation of solvent in a fume hood at room temperature. The TEM images were obtained at 200 kV operation voltage. A JSM JEOL 7500F field emission scanning electron microscope operated at 10 kV under high vacuum mode was used to record the SEM images. A VARIAN CARY 50 UV Vis NIR spectrophotometer was used to record the UV Vis NIR spectra of the particle dispersions.

Samples for SERS evaluation were prepared by adding the as synthesized particles to aqueous solutions of R6G with different concentrations. The mixtures were incubated for 12 h at room temperature to allow the adsorption of R6G cations to the surfaces of Au nanoparticles. The samples were then transferred to glass sides with concave wells Fisherbrand 12 565A for spectral characterization. Raman spectra were collected from solutions using a Renishaw in via confocal Raman spectrophotometer coupled to a Leica microscope with a 50 objective in backscattering configuration. The Raman signals were excited with a 785 nm laser and the excitation solution volume was 50 L. The sample cell was constructed by laminating a glass cover slide 0.1 0.13 mm in thickness on a glass slide with concave well that was filled with solutions. The scattering spectra were recorded in the range of 500 1800 cm 1. 10 s of the acquisition time was used for one spectrum. Processing of the Raman spectra and data analysis was carried out with IGOR Pro software Portland Oreg. .

The SERS peak at 611 cmwas used to estimate the EF of the MRMGPs with the following equation EF I N I N where Iand Iwere the intensities of the same band for the SERS and bulk spectra Nwas the number of bulk molecules probed for a bulk sample and Nwas the number of molecules probed in the SERS spectrum. All spectra are normalized against integration time. Nwas determined based on the Raman spectrum of a 1 mM R6G solution solid curve . When determining N it was assumed that the addition of MRMGPs to a R6G solution did not change the uniform distribution of R6G in the solution. For instance the EF for MRMGPs without the magnetic concentration that can be estimated from the analysis of open circles was approximately 0.91 10.

The foregoing description of illustrative embodiments has been presented for purposes of illustration and of description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or limiting with respect to the precise form disclosed and modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the disclosed embodiments. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the claims appended hereto and their equivalents.

