---

title: Centralized control center for electrical network computational services
abstract: Among other things, one or more techniques and/or systems are provided for leasing electrical network computational services to one or more network control centers. A power grid may comprise one or more substations. Network control centers disposed within the power grid may be configured to manage the substations within the power grid. A remote centralized network control center may be configured to lease electrical network computational services to the network control centers (e.g., which may mitigate costs associated with including computational hardware and/or software within respective network control centers for performing such electrical network computational services). In this way, substation data received from a network control center may be processed by the remote centralized network control center according to a level of service subscribed to by the network control center. Computational results may be provided back to the network control center (e.g., in real-time).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09396504&OS=09396504&RS=09396504
owner: ABB Research Ltd.
number: 09396504
owner_city: Zurich
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20120418
---
A power grid such as an electrical grid may be configured to provide electricity from suppliers to consumers. The power grid may be associated with one or more substations configured to provide electricity distribution and or transmission functionality. For example a substation may comprise one or more transformers configured to transform voltage from a first level to a second level e.g. a transformer may step down voltage from a transmission level voltage to a distribution level voltage for a distribution line . A substation may be associated with and or comprise switching equipment protection equipment control equipment transformers generators and or other equipment associated with the power grid.

A network control center may be configured to manage one or more substations and thereby manage electrical equipment in the substations or connected to the substations for example. The network control center may comprise computational hardware e.g. multi core processors configured to provide real time data processing. Such computational hardware may be used by the network control center to host electrical network distribution applications electrical network transmission applications and or a variety of other applications for managing substations. For example the network control center may be configured to receive substation data from one or more substations. In one example substation data may refer to real time data associated with the substation the electrical equipment therein or connected to the substation. It may be appreciated that in one example substation data may comprise any data associated with the power grid and or equipment associated with the power grid e.g. current data power data frequency data voltage data phasor data switch gear status etc. associated with a substation and or equipment associated with the substation such as a generator a transformer switching equipment loads etc. . The network control center may process the substation data using one or more applications such as a steady state analysis application and or a transient analysis application e.g. a state estimator application a contingency analysis application security analysis application power flow analysis application etc. . The network control center may send computational results and or control signals back to the one or more substations.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more systems and or techniques related to a centralized control center for electrical network computational services are provided herein. For example one or more systems and or techniques for leasing electrical network computational services from a remote centralized network control center to one or more network control centers are provided herein. It may be appreciated that lease and or the like as used herein is not meant to be construed in a strict sense but rather is intended to pertain more generally to any type of arrangement agreement contract etc. Accordingly the instant application including the scope of the appended claims is not intended to be limited to strict interpretation of lease and or the like. The lease may comprise for example details of the services provided by the remote centralized network control center to the network control centers. These details may comprise but are not limited to the level of service in terms of what computational services and steady state transient state applications may be performed for a network control center how frequently the computational services and or applications may be performed memory and or execution performance requirements the duration of the lease etc.

A power grid such as an electrical grid may comprise a plurality of substations. A substation may comprise various electricity distribution and or transmission equipment e.g. switches transformers generators loads transmission lines distribution lines etc. . Network control centers may be deployed within the power grid to manage substations. For example a network control center may monitor substations process substation data and or send control signals to substations. Because a significant number of network control centers may be deployed within the power grid the instant application pertains to centralizing computational hardware and or electrical network applications at a remote centralized network control center. Centralizing hardware and or applications at the remote centralized network control center as provided herein may significantly mitigate costs associated with including such hardware and software within respective network control centers distributed throughout the grid e.g. otherwise costly hardware and or software may be duplicated at least in part across thousands of network control centers .

Accordingly the remote centralized network control center may lease e.g. rent electrical network computational services to one or more network control centers e.g. a third party may implement the remote centralized network control center for network control centers maintained by various power utility clients . The remote centralized network control center may comprise computational hardware configured to host a plurality of electrical network computational services that may be used to process substation data from various network control centers in parallel e.g. the remote centralized network control center may comprise multi core processors multiple I Os to respective network control centers one or more hardware memory management units and a hypervisor used to host one or more operating systems configured to run electrical network computational services in parallel . In one example respective electrical network computational services may execute independently or isolated from one another e.g. via implementation of a memory managed unit MMU . In this way computational results may be provided to network control centers in real time.

In one example a request from a network control center to process substation data associated with one or more substations within a power grid may be received e.g. at a remote centralized network control center . The network control center may be configured to manage the one or more substations and may have collected the substation data e.g. voltage data frequency data power data current data and or a variety of other data that may be collected in real time by the network control center . The remote centralized network control center may determine whether the network control center has established a lease specifying a level of service subscribed to by the network control center e.g. the lease may comprise configuration data specifying particular computational requirements hardware requirements and or electrical network distribution transmission applications subscribed to by the network control center etc. . Accordingly provided that such a lease exits the substation data may be processed by the remote centralized network control center using one or more electrical network computational services e.g. a state estimator application a contingency analysis application a power flow analysis application a security analysis application an optimal power flow application a stability analysis application and or other electrical network distribution transmission applications to create computational results. The computational results may be provided to the network control center e.g. in real time . In this way the remote centralized network control center may provide electrical network computational services to a plurality of network control centers which may mitigate hardware and or software costs associated with such network control centers.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

A power grid may comprise a significant number of network control centers configured to manage substations within the power grid. A network control center may monitor substation data process substation data and or provide control signals to substations for example. It may be appreciated the computational hardware and or software used within the respective network control centers may be costly and that such costs may be exacerbated where such hardware and software are redundant across many network control centers distributed throughout the power grid. Accordingly as provided herein electrical network computational services may be leased to one or more network control centers from a remote centralized network control center. In this way costs may be reduced across the network control centers because such network control centers may exclude at least some hardware and software that may instead be provided by the remote centralized network control center.

One embodiment of leasing electrical network computational services to one or more network control centers is illustrated by an exemplary method in . At the method starts. At a request may be received from a network control center to process substation data associated with one or more substations within a power grid e.g. a remote centralized network control center may receive the request . The network control center may be configured to manage one or more substations. For example the network control center may obtain substation data e.g. current data voltage data power flow data frequency data etc. from a substation and or equipment associated with the substation such as a generator. It may be appreciated that in one example the network control center may lack at least some computational resources and or electricity network applications used to process the substation data e.g. which may mitigate costs associated with purchasing and or maintaining the network control center . Accordingly a lease for electrical network computational services may be provided to the network control center by the remote centralized network control center. The lease may specify a level of service subscribed to by the network control center e.g. computational requirements hardware requirements and or electrical network distribution transmission applications subscribed to by the network control center .

In one example the request may comprise a network control center ID identifying the network control center that made the request and or a service identifier identifying an electrical network computational service requested for processing the substation data. At a level of service subscribed to by the network control center may be identified. For example the network control center ID may be used to identify a lease corresponding to the network control center. The lease may specify the level of service subscribed to by the network control center. For example the network control center may subscribe to real time data processing of substation data by one or more electrical network distribution applications and or one or more electrical network transmission applications e.g. a state estimator application and or a contingency analysis application .

At the substation data may be processed using the electrical network computational service identified by the service identifier according to the level of service to create computational results e.g. the electrical computational service may comprise one or more electrical network distribution transmission applications . In one example the remote centralized network control center may invoke a hypervisor to identify and or host an operating system comprising the electrical network computational service. In this way computational results may be provided to the network control center e.g. in real time which may display such results and or issue control signals to one or more substations based upon the computational results. That is the computational results obtained from the electrical network computational service may be sent back from the remote centralized network control center to the network control center that made the request. In order to facilitate secure transmission of information between the network control center and the centralized network control center the request from the network control center and or the computational results provided to the network control center may be encrypted for example. In another example a dedicated network may be used for secure communication between the network control center and the centralized network control center. In another example SSH tunneling may be used for secure communication. It may be appreciated that various data communication security techniques are contemplated as falling within the scope of the appended claims.

It may be appreciated that in one example the remote centralized network control center may be configured to service a vast number of network control centers. Accordingly the remote centralized network control center may execute a plurality of electrical network computational services for one or more network control centers in parallel using computational hardware such as one or more multi core processors and or one or more hardware memory management units. In one example of servicing multiple network control centers a lease request may be received from a second network control center to establish a second lease. A second level of service may be assigned to the second network control center based upon the lease request. For example the second level of service may specify that the second network control center has subscribed to real time processing of substation data using a power flow analysis application. The second level of service may be specified within the second lease e.g. the second lease may be assigned a second network control center ID identifying the second network control center and or a second service identifier identifying the power flow analysis application .

In one example a second request may be received from the second network control center to process second substation data associated with a second power grid. It may be appreciated that the second power grid may be the same or different as the power grid associated with the network control center. The second level of service subscribed to by the second network control center may be identified. The second substation data may be processed using a second electrical network computational service e.g. the power flow analysis application according to the second level of service e.g. real time processing to create second computational results which may be provided to the second network control center e.g. where the second request and or the second computational results may be encrypted . In this way the remote centralized network control center may lease electrical network computational services to one or more network control centers e.g. in parallel and or in real time . At the method ends.

In one example of leasing electrical network computational services a remote centralized network control center and one or more network control centers may be maintained e.g. owned by a single entity such as a power utility company. Accordingly a lease may comprise configuration data identifying the one or more network control centers that the remote centralized network control center is to service e.g. the lease may identify one or more electrical network computational services that may be invoked by a network control center . In another example of leasing electrical network computational services a remote centralized network control center and one or more network control centers may be maintained e.g. owned by separate entities. For example a first company may maintain the remote centralized network control center a second company may maintain a first set of network control centers a third company may maintain a second set of network control centers etc. In this way the first company may lease electrical network computational services to one or more companies that maintain network control centers. Accordingly a lease may specify a variety of information corresponding to a relationship between the remote centralized network control center e.g. and or a first entity that owns the remote network control center and a network control center e.g. and or a second entity that owns the network control center . For example the lease may specify payment terms for electrical network computational services e.g. payment may be based upon resource utilization and or cost savings achieved by using the remote centralized network control center etc. usage limits for electrical network computational services e.g. defined by time resource utilization and or payment terms etc. a lease duration e.g. a time period for which the second entity has contracted with the first entity for leasing electrical network computational services and or a variety of other information. The lease may be updated based upon electrical network computational services performed by the remote centralized network control center e.g. total usage data may be updated based upon the remote centralized network control center performing electrical network computational services for the network control center .

One embodiment of obtaining a lease for electrical network computational services from a remote centralized network control center is illustrated by an exemplary method in . At the method starts. At a lease with a remote centralized network control center may be established by a network control center. The lease may specify a level of service that is to be provided by the remote centralized network control center to the network control center. For example the lease may specify computational requirements e.g. real time processing of substation data hardware requirements and or electrical network distribution transmission applications e.g. a state estimator application a contingency analysis application and or a wide variety of other applications subscribed to by the network control center.

At the network control center may receive substation data from one or more substations within a power grid. It may be appreciated that in one example a substation may comprise any equipment associated with the power grid e.g. switching equipment transformers generators transmission lines distribution lines protection equipment control equipment etc. . The substation data may comprise information collected from the one or more substations such as current data power data voltage data frequency data etc. At a request to process the substation data may be sent to the remote centralized network control center. For example the request may comprise a network control center ID identifying the network control center and or a service identifier identifying an electrical network computational service to be used for processing the substation data. In one example the request may be encrypted such that the remote centralized network control center may decrypt the request.

At computational results may be received from the remote centralized network control center e.g. in real time . The computational results may correspond to an electrical network computational service that processed the substation data according to the level of service subscribed to by the network control center e.g. as indicated by the lease . The network control center may display the computational results and or provide control signals to a substation based upon the computational results. At the method ends.

Respective network control centers may be configured to manage one or more substations. For example network control center 1 may manage substation A network control center 2 may manage substation B network control center 3 may manage substation C and or substation D etc. It may be appreciated that in one example a substation may comprise any equipment associated with the power grid e.g. switching equipment transformers generators transmission lines distribution lines protection equipment control equipment etc. . A network control center may be configured to obtain substation data from one or more substations. For example network control center 2 may obtain substation data from substation B .

Because a network control center may lack at least some computational hardware and or software used to process substation data e.g. to mitigate costs associated with purchasing and or maintaining the network control center the network control center may send a request to the remote centralized network control center for processing at least some of the substation data. For example the remote centralized network control center may receive a request from the network control center 2 to process at least some of the substation data associated with the substation B . The request may comprise the substation data a network control center ID identifying the network control center 2 and or a service identifier identifying an electrical network computational service for processing the substation data. The remote centralized network control center may identify a level of service subscribed to by the network control center 2 based upon the lease data e.g. the network control center ID may be used to identify the lease for the network control center 2 . The remote centralized network control center may process the substation data using an electrical network computational service according to the level of service to create computational results e.g. the service identifier may be used to identify the electrical network computational service within the electrical network computational services for processing the substation data . In this way the remote centralized network control center may provide the computational results to the network control center 2 e.g. where at least some of the request and or results may be encrypted and or otherwise protected .

A lease may specify a level of service subscribed to by a network control center. For example the first lease may specify a first level of service for the network control center 1 which may indicate that the network control center 1 has subscribed to a state estimation application 1 a contingency analysis application 1 a security analysis application a particular set of computational requirements e.g. a relatively high number of CPU cycles real time processing of substation data real time delivery of computational results etc. and or other lease terms e.g. a lease duration a maximum network bandwidth allowance a maximum data allowance etc. . The second lease may specify a second level of service for the network control center 2 which may indicate that the network control center 2 has subscribed to a power flow analysis application a security analysis application a particular set of computational requirements e.g. a relatively medium number of CPU cycles a relatively medium amount of memory storage and or backup etc. and or other lease terms e.g. a lease duration etc. . The third lease may specify a third level of service for the network control center 3 which may indicate that the network control center 3 has subscribed to a state estimation application 2 e.g. a different version of the state estimation application 1 subscribed to by the network control center 1 a contingency analysis application 2 a security analysis application and or a particular set of computational requirements e.g. a relatively high number of CPU cycles real time delivery of computational results etc. . In this way the remote centralized network control center may lease electrical network computational services to network control centers based upon the lease data .

In one example of the electrical network computational services an operating system A may comprise a state estimation application 1 and or a contingency analysis application 1 an operating system B may comprise a state estimation application 2 and or a contingency analysis application 2 an operating system C may comprise a security analysis application an operating system D may comprise a power flow analysis application an operating system E may comprise a state estimation application 3 and or a contingency analysis application 3 etc. Upon receiving a request to process substation data from a network control center the hypervisor may be configured to select an appropriate operating system for processing the substation data. In one example the selected operating system may comprise an electrical network distribution transmission application subscribed to by the network control center which may match a service identifier within the request. In another example the selected operating system may be selected based upon computational requirements subscribed to by the network control center e.g. an operating system capable of providing real time processing of the substation data may be selected . In this way the remote centralized network control center may provide electrical network computational services to one or more network control centers.

The remote centralized network control center may comprise a real time hypervisor . The real time hypervisor may be configured to manage one or more of the operating systems . In one example upon the remote centralized network control center receiving a request to process substation data from a network control center the real time hypervisor may identify and or assign an operating system to process the substation data. In another example the real time hypervisor may be configured to perform resource control between the operating systems and computational resources of the remote centralized network control center . For example the real time hypervisor may provide an operating system with a particular level of access to the computational resources so that the substation data may be processed according to computational requirements specified in a lease for the network control center e.g. real time processing of substation data . In this way the remote centralized network control center may lease electrical network computational services to network control centers.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of and or at least some of the exemplary method for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

