---

title: Reducing wireless reconnection time of a computing device
abstract: Technologies for reducing connection time to a wireless access point includes recording wireless connection information in a log, computing parameters as a function of past wireless connection information in the log, generating an ordered list of wireless access points most likely to be available for reconnection at a desired time as a function of recent wireless connection information in the log, and directly probing a wireless access point instead of initiating a wireless access point scan. In some embodiments, computing parameters as a function of past wireless connection information in the log comprises performing genetic programming operations to generate prediction programs for later prediction of wireless access points most likely to be available for reconnection at a desired time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09277494&OS=09277494&RS=09277494
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09277494
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120928
---
Modern computing devices such as laptops smartphones mobile internet devices MIDs and tablets often include functionality for wirelessly connecting with one or more networks. Such functionality is increasingly important to users of computing devices that often travel between any number of different locations but still require access to network based content and services provided by a remote computing device or server. In providing such access a computing device may wirelessly connect with one or more different wireless access points each of which are connected to a network such as the Internet.

To decrease the amount of time required to reconnect to a particular wireless access point a computing device may save a password and an identifier associated with each wireless access point for which the computing device connects. As such when scanning for available wireless access points with which to connect the computing device may receive an identifier that matches one of the saved identifiers. In response the computing device may reconnect with the wireless access point associated with the received identifier using the corresponding password and thereby decrease the amount of time needed to connect. However saving an identifier and a password for each wireless access point for which the computing device connects does not typically decrease the amount of time needed to scan for available wireless access points with which to connect.

While the concepts of the present disclosure are susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments thereof have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intent to limit the concepts of the present disclosure to the particular forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives consistent with the present disclosure and the appended claims.

In the following description numerous specific details such as logic implementations opcodes means to specify operands resource partitioning sharing duplication implementations types and interrelationships of system components and logic partitioning integration choices are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It will be appreciated by one skilled in the art however that embodiments of the disclosure may be practiced without such specific details. In other instances control structures gate level circuits and full software instruction sequences have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure the description of the of the concepts described herein. Those of ordinary skill in the art with the included descriptions will be able to implement appropriate functionality without undue experimentation.

References in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to effect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

Embodiments of the concepts described herein may be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof. Embodiments implemented in a computer system may include one or more point to point or bus based interconnects between components. Embodiments of the concepts described herein may also be implemented as instructions carried by or stored on one or more machine readable or computer readable storage media which may be read and executed by one or more processors. A machine readable or computer readable storage medium may be embodied as any device mechanism or physical structure for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computing device . For example a machine readable or computer readable storage medium may be embodied as read only memory ROM device s random access memory RAM device s magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices mini or micro SD cards memory sticks and others.

In the drawings specific arrangements or orderings of schematic elements such as those representing devices modules instruction blocks and data elements may be shown for ease of description. However it should be understood by those skilled in the art that the specific ordering or arrangement of the schematic elements in the drawings is not meant to imply that a particular order or sequence of processing or separation of processes is required. Further the inclusion of a schematic element in a drawing is not meant to imply that such element is required in all embodiments or that the features represented by such element may not be included in or combined with other elements in some embodiments.

In general schematic elements used to represent instruction blocks may be implemented using any suitable form of machine readable instruction such as software or firmware applications programs functions modules routines processes procedures plug ins applets widgets code fragments and or others and that each such instruction may be implemented using any suitable programming language library application programming interface API and or other software development tools. For example some embodiments may be implemented using Java C and or other programming languages. Similarly schematic elements used to represent data or information may be implemented using any suitable electronic arrangement or structure such as a register data store table record array index hash map tree list graph file of any file type folder directory database and or others.

Further in the drawings where connecting elements such as solid or dashed lines or arrows are used to illustrate a connection relationship or association between or among two or more other schematic elements the absence of any such connecting elements is not meant to imply that no connection relationship or association can exist. In other words some connections relationships or associations between elements may not be shown in the drawings so as not to obscure the disclosure. In addition for ease of illustration a single connecting element may be used to represent multiple connections relationships or associations between elements. For example where a connecting element represents a communication of signals data or instructions it should be understood by those skilled in the art that such element may represent one or multiple signal paths e.g. a bus as may be needed to effect the communication.

Referring now to a system for reducing an amount of time required to re establish a wireless connection comprises a computing device and one or more wireless access points . The computing device may attempt to re establish a wireless connection with one or more of the wireless access points based at least in part on or otherwise as a function of historical connection information and a current context of the computing device . Additionally or alternatively the computing device may predict a group of the wireless access points most likely e.g. most probable to be in range of the computing device at a given time. To do so the computing device may analyze both historical connection information and the current context of the computing device to determine the likelihood e.g. the probability that each of the wireless access points will be available for reconnection e.g. accessible in range of the computing device etc. at the given time. Based at least in part on or otherwise as a function of that analysis the computing device may generate an ordered list comprising a reference number of the wireless access points having the highest probabilities of being available for reconnection e.g. the top four wireless access points . That is the computing device may generate an ordered list of the wireless access points arranged in a descending manner according to the probability determined for each.

In some embodiments the computing device may predict different groups and generate corresponding ordered lists of the wireless access points based at least in part on or otherwise as a function of the historical connection information and or the context of the computing device . For example the computing device may be utilized in any number of different locations based on a particular day of the week or a particular time of day. That is the computing device may be operated in one location e.g. at an office building during the week and in another location e.g. at home on weekends. In each of the locations the computing device may establish a wireless connection to or otherwise come into contact with any number of different wireless access points . For example while located in an office building during the week e.g. location the computing device may establish one or more wireless connections and or come into contact with any number of the wireless access points e.g. AP AP AP AP AP and AP . In contrast while located at home on weekends e.g. location the computing device may establish one or more wireless connections and or come into contact with any number of different wireless access points e.g. AP AP AP AP AP and AP . In such embodiments the computing device may predict that a group of the wireless access points is more likely to be available for re establishment of a wireless connection at a particular time. For example the computing device may determine that a group of the wireless access points e.g. AP AP AP and AP is more likely to be available to re establish a wireless connection than the other wireless access points e.g. AP and AP based at least in part on or otherwise as a function of the time of day or the day of the week being predicted.

It should be understood that there may be any number of additional wireless access points in either location . In addition it should be further understood that although only two different locations and types of locations e.g. an office building and a home are described in the illustrative embodiment the computing device may establish a wireless connection to and or come into contact with any number of different wireless access points in any number of locations and or any other type of location. For example in some embodiments the computing device may establish a wireless connection with one or more of the wireless access points at an airport a retail store a restaurant a hotel and or any other type of location comprising one or more of the wireless access points .

To reduce the amount of time needed to re establish a wireless connection the computing device may transmit a probe frame or a directed connection request to one or more of the wireless access points based at least in part on or otherwise as a function of the ordered list. If one or more of the wireless access points are in range of the computing device when probed the one or more in range wireless access points can generate and thereafter transmit a response to the probe frame. Upon receipt of a probe response the computing device may re establish a wireless connection with the corresponding wireless access point . By predicting and directly probing the wireless access points that are most likely to be available to re establish a wireless connection at a given time the computing device need not initiate a wireless access point scan which typically takes a noticeable amount of time to complete. In that way the time needed to re establish a wireless connection may be reduced.

The computing device may be embodied as any type of computing device for processing data and communicating with remote devices. In the illustrative embodiment of the computing device includes a processor an I O subsystem a memory a data storage communication circuitry and one or more peripheral devices . In some embodiments several of the foregoing components may be incorporated on a motherboard of the computing device while other components may be communicatively coupled to the motherboard via for example a peripheral port. Furthermore it should be appreciated that the computing device may include other components sub components and devices commonly found in a computing device which are not illustrated in for clarity of the description.

The processor of the computing device may be embodied as any type of processor capable of executing software firmware such as a microprocessor digital signal processor microcontroller or the like. The processor is illustratively embodied as a single core processor having a processor core . However in other embodiments the processor may be embodied as a multi core processor having multiple processor cores . Additionally the computing device may include additional processors having one or more processor cores .

The I O subsystem of the computing device may be embodied as circuitry and or components to facilitate input output operations with the processor and or other components of the computing device . In some embodiments the I O subsystem may be embodied as a memory controller hub MCH or northbridge an input output controller hub ICH or southbridge and a firmware device. In such embodiments the firmware device of the I O subsystem may be embodied as a memory device for storing Basic Input Output System BIOS data and or instructions and or other information e.g. a BIOS driver used during booting of the computing device . However in other embodiments I O subsystems having other configurations may be used. For example in some embodiments the I O subsystem may be embodied as a platform controller hub PCH . In such embodiments the memory controller hub MCH may be incorporated in or otherwise associated with the processor and the processor may communicate directly with the memory as shown by the hashed line in . Additionally in other embodiments the I O subsystem may form a portion of a system on a chip SoC and be incorporated along with the processor and other components of the computing device on a single integrated circuit chip.

The processor is communicatively coupled to the I O subsystem via a number of signal paths. These signal paths and other signal paths illustrated in may be embodied as any type of signal paths capable of facilitating communication between the components of the computing device . For example the signal paths may be embodied as any number of wires cables light guides printed circuit board traces via bus intervening devices point to point interconnects and or the like.

The memory of the computing device may be embodied as or otherwise include one or more memory devices or data storage locations including for example dynamic random access memory devices DRAM synchronous dynamic random access memory devices SDRAM double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory device DDR SDRAM mask read only memory ROM devices erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM devices flash memory devices and or other volatile and or non volatile memory devices. The memory is communicatively coupled to the I O subsystem via a number of signal paths. Although only a single memory device is illustrated in the computing device may include additional memory devices in other embodiments. Various data and software may be stored in the memory device . For example one or more operating systems OS applications programs libraries and drivers that make up the software stack executed by the processor may reside in memory during execution.

The data storage may be embodied as any type of device or devices configured for the short term or long term storage of data such as for example memory devices and circuits memory cards hard disk drives solid state drives or other data storage devices. In some embodiments the data storage may be used to store data associated with past and present connections with one or more wireless access points such as for example AP . Additionally or alternatively the data storage may also be used to store parameters used to facilitate predicting which of the one or more wireless access points to connect to. To do so the data storage may include one or more databases such as for example a wireless connection database and a parameter database . In such embodiments the wireless connection database may comprise data associated with one or more wireless connections e.g. connection start time and date connection end time and date connection duration etc. or information corresponding to one or more of the wireless access points with which the computing device connects e.g. service set identifier wireless channel media access control address etc. . The parameter database may contain in some embodiments one or more prediction parameters computed using one or more algorithms.

The communication circuitry of the computing device may be embodied as any number of devices and circuitry for enabling communications between the computing device and one or more remote computing devices over the network . For example the communication circuitry may be embodied as a network interface controller NIC in some embodiments. The network may be embodied as any number of various wired and or wireless communication networks. For example the network may be embodied as or otherwise include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a mobile network or a publicly accessible global network such as the Internet. Additionally the network may include any number of additional devices to facilitate communication between the computing device and the remote computing devices. The computing device and the remote computing devices may use any suitable communication protocol to communicate with each other over the network depending on for example the particular type of network s . Additionally in some embodiments the communication circuitry may wirelessly connect to the one or more wireless access points which may be communicatively coupled to the network . For example the communication circuitry may wirelessly connect to the AP which may be communicatively coupled to the network . In such embodiments the communication circuitry may communicate with the remote computing devices over the network using the AP .

The peripheral devices of the computing device may include any number of additional input output devices interface devices and or other peripheral devices. For example the peripheral devices may include a display for displaying content to a user a keyboard mouse or other input output peripheral devices. The peripheral devices are communicatively coupled to the I O subsystem via a number of signal paths thereby allowing the I O subsystem and or processor to receive inputs from and send outputs to the peripheral devices .

The wireless access points may be embodied as any type of computing and or communication device capable of performing the functions described herein. As such the wireless access points may include various hardware and software components e.g. a processor memory and communication circuitry typically found in a computing device for communicating storing forwarding maintaining receiving and transferring data over the network .

Referring now to one embodiment of an environment of the computing device includes a wireless connection logging module a wireless connection management module a prediction module a wireless communication module an analysis module the wireless connection database and the parameter database . It should be understood that the environment and or any of the modules included therein may be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof.

As discussed above in some embodiments the computing device may establish a wireless connection with one or more of the wireless access points . To do so the wireless communication module may perform a scan to identify one or more wireless access points located within a proximity of the computing device . In response to identifying one or more wireless access points located within the proximity of the computing device the wireless communication module may connect to one of the wireless access points . Additionally in some embodiments the wireless communication module may re establish a wireless connection with one or more of the wireless access points .

The wireless communication module may be communicatively coupled to the wireless connection management module . The wireless communication module may facilitate establishing and or re establishing a connection with the one or more wireless access points . In use the wireless connection management module may instruct the wireless communication module to initiate a scan to identify the wireless access points located in the proximity of the computing device . Additionally or alternatively the wireless connection management module may instruct the wireless communication module to directly probe one or more of the wireless access points instead of initiating a scan. For example in some embodiments the wireless connection management module may instruct the wireless communication module to send a probe to a reference number of the wireless access points corresponding to the wireless access points with which the computing device has the highest probability of reconnecting. In some embodiments the wireless connection management module may also instruct the wireless communication module to directly probe one or more of the wireless access points as a function of a manual wireless connection configuration provided by a user of the computing device .

The wireless connection logging module may record connection information corresponding to one or more past or present wireless connections established between the wireless communication module and the one or more wireless access points . The connection information may comprise information describing the wireless connections themselves e.g. connection start time and date connection end time and date connection duration etc. or information describing characteristics or data associated with the one or more wireless access points with which the computing device connects e.g. service set identifier wireless channel media access control address etc. .

In some embodiments the wireless connection logging module may be configured to store the connection information in a log which may be embodied as one or more databases. For example the wireless connection logging module may store the connection information in the wireless connection database . It should be understood that although the log is described as being embodied as a database in the illustrative embodiment the log may be embodied as data stored in data structure e.g. a document file etc. having a different format in other embodiments. For example the log may be embodied as a comma separated value CSV file a text file an encrypted data file an Extensible Markup Language XML document having one or more XML elements or any other format suitable to store information associated with one or more past or present wireless connections between the computing device and the one or more wireless access points . Additionally it should be understood that the wireless connection logging module may instead be configured to store the connection information in any suitable data storage and or memory device e.g. volatile and or non volatile memory devices of the computing device .

At certain intervals which may correspond to a reference interval in some embodiments the analysis module may retrieve historical connection information stored in the wireless connection database and compute one or more parameters which may later be used to facilitate predicting which of the one or more wireless access points or the group of the one or more wireless access points is most likely e.g. most probable to be in range of the computing device at a given time. For example the analysis module may retrieve the historical connection information stored in the wireless connection database and compute the one or more parameters according to a configurable reference interval or schedule e.g. every hour every four hours once or twice a day once or twice a week once or twice a month at a scheduled date and or time or according to any other appropriate reference interval or schedule .

In some embodiments the analysis module may also be configured to operate asynchronously to other components and operations of the computing device in response to the occurrence of one or more reference events or conditions. For example the analysis module may be configured to operate only when it is detected that the computing device is not actively being used e.g. overnight idle etc. and or in response to the computing device being connected to a power source. Additionally or alternatively the analysis module may be configured to operate only when other operations of the computing device connection attempts virus scans read write operations system maintenance etc. are not being performed. It should be understood that any suitable event and or condition may trigger operation of the analysis module . Additionally it should be appreciated that the analysis module in some embodiments may operate synchronously e.g. contemporaneously to other components and operations of the computing device .

As discussed the analysis module computes one or more parameters which may later be used to facilitate predicting which of the one or more wireless access points or the group of the one or more wireless access points is most likely to be in range of the computing device at a particular time. To do so the analysis module may utilize one or more artificial intelligence based techniques to compute or otherwise generate the parameters as a function of the historical connection information. For example the analysis module may utilize one or more genetic algorithms to compute a set of parameters in some embodiments. In such embodiments each parameter in the set of parameters may be computed from the historical connection information. As such each parameter may be embodied as a numeric constant that represents a probability of a previous wireless connection having occurred. For example the set of parameters computed by the analysis module may comprise a parameter indicative of the probability that a wireless connection established at a particular time of reference was the same as the last wireless connection e.g. the previous wireless connection that was established a parameter indicative of the probability that the wireless connection established at the particular time of reference was the same as the wireless connection that was established 24 hours before the particular time of reference and a parameter indicative of the probability that the wireless connection established at the particular time of reference was the same as the wireless connection that was established one week before the particular time of reference. In that way the analysis module may compute 0.4 0.35 0.25 as the set of parameters wherein 0.4 may be indicative of the probability that the wireless connection established at the particular time of reference e.g. Tuesday at 5 00 PM was the same as the last wireless connection that was established e.g. Tuesday at 3 00 PM Monday at 10 00 PM etc. 0.35 may be indicative of the probability that the wireless connection established at the particular time of reference e.g. Tuesday at 5 00 PM was the same as the wireless connection that was established 24 hours before e.g. Monday at 5 00 PM the particular time of reference and 0.25 may be indicative of the probability that the wireless connection established at the particular time of reference e.g. Tuesday at 5 00 PM was the same as the wireless connection that was established one week before e.g. last Tuesday at 5 00 PM the particular time of reference.

It should be understand that although only three parameters are computed in the illustrative embodiment any number of different parameters having different probabilities may be computed in other embodiments. For example the analysis module of some embodiments may compute a parameter indicative of the probability that the wireless connection established at a particular time of reference was the same as the wireless connection that was established one hour before the particular time of reference a parameter indicative of the probability that the wireless connection established at a particular time of reference was the same as the wireless connection that was established one month before the particular time of reference or any additional parameter suitable for indicating the probability that a wireless connection established at a particular time was the same as another wireless connection established in the past.

In some embodiments the analysis module may utilize one or more genetic programming techniques to compute a set of parameters. In such embodiments each parameter in the set of parameters may instead be embodied as one or more prediction programs e.g. instructions program sequences etc. which may be later executed by the prediction module to facilitate predicting which of wireless access points or the group of the wireless access points are most likely e.g. most probable to be in range of the computing device at a given time.

In some embodiments the one or more artificial intelligence based techniques e.g. genetic algorithms genetic programming etc. used to compute the parameters and or generate the prediction programs may be computationally and or resource intensive on the computing device . This is especially true in embodiments wherein the computing device comprises a mobile computing device e.g. a smartphone tablet computer e reader laptop computer personal digital assistant etc. or any other type of computing device capable of fully or partially operating using a limited or reduced power source e.g. a battery hand power crank photovoltaic cell etc. . Therefore as discussed above the analysis module may be configured in some embodiments to operate asynchronously to other components and operations of the computing device in response to the occurrence of one or more reference events or conditions e.g. inactivity of the computing device connection to a power source etc. . As such the analysis module may operate only when the resources e.g. power level battery level processing capacity etc. of the computing device are adequate to perform such computations. In that way the amount of power and other resources of the computing device may be conserved.

It should be understood that although only genetic algorithms and genetic programming techniques are described as being capable of being utilized to compute the parameters and or generate the prediction programs in the illustrative embodiment the analysis module may utilize any other technique suitable for computing parameters or generating prediction programs that later facilitate predicting which of the one or more wireless access points or the group of the one or more wireless access points is most likely e.g. most probable to be in range of the computing device at a given time. For example the analysis module may compute generate and or determine one or more algorithms best suited e.g. most optimal for later use in predicting which of the one or more wireless access points or the group of the one or more wireless access points is most likely e.g. most probable to be in range of the computing device at a given time.

In some embodiments the analysis module may be configured to store the computed parameters and or generated prediction programs in one or more databases. For example the analysis module may store the computed parameters and or generated prediction programs in the parameter database . Of course it should be understood that the analysis module may instead be configured to store the computed parameters and or generated prediction programs in any suitable data storage and or memory device e.g. volatile and or non volatile memory devices of the computing device .

To facilitate predicting which of the one or more wireless access points or the group of the one or more wireless access points is most likely e.g. most probable to be in range of the computing device at a given time the prediction module may be communicatively coupled to the wireless connection management module the wireless connection database and the parameter database . In use the prediction module may receive a notification and or an indication from the wireless connection management module that re establishment of a wireless connection has been requested. In response the prediction module may retrieve the one or more parameters and or prediction programs from the parameter database . Additionally the prediction module may retrieve additional wireless connection information from the wireless connection database . In some embodiments the additional wireless connection information retrieved from the wireless connection database may include the most recent connection information stored in the log by the wireless connection logging module . That is the most recent connection information retrieved from the wireless connection database may include wireless information corresponding to one or more recent wireless connections for which the analysis module has not yet computed into a parameter or a prediction program.

In use the prediction module may predict different groups of the wireless access points being most likely to be in range of or otherwise available to the computing device at a desired day of the week and or time of prediction. In embodiments wherein the parameters computed by the analysis module are embodied as numeric constants indicative of connection probabilities derived from the historical connection information the prediction module may use the previously computed parameters the additional e.g. most recent connection information retrieved from the wireless connection database and a desired time of prediction as inputs into a generic e.g. standard predefined default common etc. algorithm or formula to generate an ordered list. In such embodiments the prediction module may retrieve parameters from the parameter database that correspond to the desired day of the week and or time of prediction but that occurred in the past e.g. parameters generated from historical connection information . For example if the prediction module determines that the desired day of the week and or time of prediction corresponds to the present day of the week and time e.g. Tuesday at 5 00 PM then the prediction module may retrieve a set of previously computed parameters for the same day of the week and time using the historical connection information last four Tuesdays at 5 00 PM last three Tuesdays at 5 00 PM etc. .

The prediction module may then determine which of the most recent wireless connections e.g. the wireless connections corresponding to connection information for which the analysis module has not yet computed into a parameter or a prediction program are most likely to be available for reconnection at the desired time of prediction e.g. Tuesday at 5 00 PM . To do so the prediction module may assign the connection probabilities associated with each of the previously computed parameters e.g. 0.4 0.35 0.25 to the most recent connection information. For example the prediction module may assign a probability of 0.4 to the last e.g. the previous wireless connection that was established e.g. Tuesday at 3 00 PM Monday at 10 00 PM etc. a probability of 0.35 to the wireless connection that was established 24 hours before e.g. Monday at 5 00 PM the desired time of prediction e.g. Tuesday at 5 00 PM and a probability of 0.25 to the wireless connection what was established one week e.g. last Tuesday at 5 00 PM before the desired time of prediction e.g. Tuesday at 5 00 PM .

In response to determining which of the most recent wireless connections are most likely to be available for reconnection at the desired time e.g. Tuesday at 5 00 PM the prediction module may identify which of the wireless access points e.g. AP AP AP etc. correspond to those wireless connections and generate the ordered list therefrom. To do so the prediction module may use any information describing the characteristics or data associated with the corresponding wireless access points e.g. service set identifier wireless channel media access control address etc. to facilitate identification. The resulting ordered list may therefore comprise a reference number of the wireless access points having the highest probabilities of being available for reconnection e.g. the top three wireless access points . In some embodiments the ordered list of the wireless access points may be arranged in a descending manner according to the probability determined for each.

In embodiments wherein the parameters computed by the analysis module are instead embodied as one or more prediction programs e.g. instructions program sequences etc. the prediction module may execute the previously generated prediction programs using the most recent connection information retrieved from the wireless connection database and the desired time of prediction as inputs to generate the ordered list of the wireless access points . In such embodiments the resulting ordered list may similarly comprise a reference number of the wireless access points having the highest probabilities of being available for reconnection e.g. the top three wireless access points . Additionally or alternatively the ordered list of the wireless access points may be arranged in a descending manner according to the probability determined for each.

To reduce the amount of time needed to re establish a wireless connection the wireless connection management module may instruct the wireless communication module to transmit a probe or a directed connection request to one or more of the wireless access points based at least in part on or otherwise as a function of the ordered list. If one or more of the wireless access points are in range of or are otherwise available to the computing device when probed the one or more in range wireless access points can generate and thereafter transmit a response to the probe. Upon receipt of a probe response the wireless connection management module may instruct the wireless communication module to re establish a wireless connection with the wireless access point that generated the response. By predicting and directly probing the wireless access points that are most likely to be available to re establish a wireless connection at a given time the computing device need not scan for available wireless access points which typically takes a noticeable amount of time to complete. In that way the time needed to re establish a wireless connection may be reduced. If however none of the wireless access points are in range of or otherwise available to the computing device when probed the wireless connection management module may instead instruct the wireless communication module to initiate a scan to identify other wireless access points located in the proximity of the computing device .

Referring now to at least one embodiment of a method for predicting available wireless access points to reduce the wireless reconnection time between a wireless access point and the computing device begins with block . In block the computing device may record connection information corresponding to one or more past or present wireless connections established between the computing device and the one or more wireless access points . The connection information may comprise information describing the wireless connections themselves e.g. connection start time and date connection end time and date connection duration etc. or information describing characteristics or data associated with the one or more wireless access points with which the computing device connects e.g. service set identifier wireless channel media access control address etc. . The computing device may store the recorded connection information in a database e.g. the wireless connection database . In some embodiments the connection information may also be stored in a log file or in any other format suitable to store information associated with one or more past or present wireless connections between the computing device and the one or more wireless access points .

In block the computing device computes one or more parameters and or prediction programs which may later be used to facilitate predicting which of the one or more wireless access points or the group of the one or more wireless access points is most likely to be in range of the computing device at a particular time e.g. a desired time of prediction . To do so the computing device may utilize one or more artificial intelligence based techniques to compute or otherwise generate the parameters and or prediction programs a function of the historical connection information stored in the log or the database. In some embodiments the computing device utilizes one or more genetic algorithms and or genetic programming techniques to generate the parameters and or prediction programs. Each parameter and or prediction program may be indicative of or otherwise correspond to a different connection probability computed from the historical connection information. At completion or at any appropriate time during computation the computing device may store the computed parameters and or prediction programs in one or more databases e.g. the parameter database . Upon storing the computed parameters and or prediction programs in one or more databases the method advances to block .

In some embodiments the computing device may detect whether any operations are currently being performed and or whether the computing device is currently in use e.g. active prior to computing the one or more parameters and or prediction programs. To do so the computing device of such embodiments may monitor for the performance of one or more operations and or processes. Additionally or alternatively the computing device may monitor for input received from a user via one or more of the peripheral devices i.e. keypads touch screens voice recognition components etc. of the computing device . In response to determining that the computing device is actively being used and or not connected to a power source the computing device may proceed with computing the one or more parameters and or prediction programs. If however it is instead determined that the computing device is actively being used and or not connected to a power source the computing device may continue to monitor device activity and or operations for inactivity before computing the one or more parameters and or prediction programs. Since the computing device is inactive and or connected to a power source when computing parameters and or prediction programs such computations are asynchronous to other operations or use of the computing device. In that way resources e.g. battery power processing power etc. of the computing device may be reserved for other operations.

At block the computing device determines whether re establishment of a wireless connection has been requested. To do so the computing device may monitor in some embodiments for input received from a user via one or more of the peripheral devices i.e. keypads touch screens voice recognition components etc. of the computing device . The input may be indicative of a request by the user to re establish a wireless connection with one of the wireless access points . Additionally or alternatively the computing device may monitor for a notification and or indication generated by one or more components or operations of the computing device . If the computing device determines that re establishment of a wireless connection has been requested the method advances to block . If the computing device instead determines that re establishment of a wireless connection has not been requested the method proceeds back to block in which the computing device continues recording connection information corresponding to one or more past or present wireless connections established between the computing device and the one or more wireless access points .

At block the computing device retrieves the computed parameters and the historical connection information to facilitate predicting one or more of the wireless access points may be available for re establishing a connection. To do so the computing device retrieves at block the parameters and or prediction programs from the parameter database . Additionally the computing device retrieves at block additional wireless connection information from the wireless connection database . In some embodiments the additional wireless connection information retrieved from the wireless connection database may include the most recent connection information stored in the log by the computing device . That is the most recent connection information retrieved from the wireless connection database may include wireless information corresponding to one or more recent wireless connections for which the computing device has not yet computed into a parameter or a prediction program. After retrieving the parameters and the additional connection information e.g. the most recently recorded connection information the method advances to block .

In block the computing device generates an ordered list comprising a reference number of the wireless access points having the highest probabilities of being available for reconnection. For example the computing device may generate an ordered list comprising the top three wireless access points which may correspond to the three wireless connections having the highest determined probabilities of being available to re establish a wireless connection. In some embodiments the ordered list of the wireless access points may be arranged in a descending manner according to the probability determined for each. Upon generating the ordered list the method advances to block .

In block the computing device transmits a probe or a directed connection request to one or more of the wireless access points of the ordered list. In some embodiments the computing device may transmit probes in a descending manner according to the probability determined for each of the wireless access points of the ordered list. As such the computing device may first transmit a probe to the wireless access point having the highest determined probability of being available to re establish a wireless connection before transmitting a probe to another wireless access point of the ordered list. For example if the ordered list generated by the computing device comprises four of the wireless access points e.g. AP AP AP and AP the computing device may first transmit a probe to the AP before transmitting a probe to the AP AP or AP . The method then advances to block .

In block the computing device determines whether it received a response to the probe from the wireless access point to which the probe was directed. That is if the wireless access point to which the probe was directed e.g. AP is in range and available to re establish a wireless connection with the computing device the wireless access point to which the probe was directed e.g. AP may transmit a response to the probe which may be received by the computing device . If the computing device receives a response from the wireless access point to which the probe was directed the method advances to block . If however the computing device does not receive a response from the wireless access point to which the probe was directed the method advances instead to block .

In block the computing device determines whether the wireless access point to which the probe was directed is the last wireless access point of the ordered list. If the computing device determines that the wireless access point to which the probe was directed is not the last wireless access point of the ordered list the method returns to block to probe the next wireless access point of the ordered list e.g. the wireless access point having the next highest probability . If however the computing device determines that the wireless access point to which the probe was directed is the last wireless access point of the ordered list the method advances to block . In block the computing device may initiate a scan to identify other wireless access points located in the proximity of the computing device .

In block the computing device may re establish a wireless connection with the wireless access point to which the probe was directed and a response was received therefrom. By predicting and directly probing the wireless access points that are most likely to be available to re establish a wireless connection at a given time the computing device need not scan for available wireless access points which typically takes a noticeable amount of time to complete. In that way the time needed to re establish a wireless connection may be reduced.

It should be understood that although the computing device of the illustrative embodiment transmits probes in a descending order according to the probability determined for each of the wireless access points of the ordered list the computing device may also contemporaneously e.g. simultaneously transmit a probe to each wireless access point of the ordered list in some embodiments. In such embodiments the computing device may instead determine at block whether it received a response to the probes from any one of the wireless access points to which the probes were directed. If the computing device receives a response from any one of the wireless access points to which the probes were directed the computing device may re establish a wireless connection with one or more of the wireless access points that transmitted a response. In some embodiments the computing device may re establish a wireless connection with the wireless access point first to respond to the probe. It should be understood however that the computing device may instead determine to re establish a wireless connection with any of the one or more wireless access points according to a policy e.g. strongest signal strength device security policies user preferences etc. or any other suitable mechanism for selecting one of the responding wireless access points with which to re establish a wireless connection.

Referring now to at least one embodiment of a method for computing parameters with the computing device to predict an available wireless access point begins with block . In block the computing device may retrieve connection information corresponding to one or more past or present wireless connections established between the computing device and the one or more wireless access points from a database e.g. the wireless connection database . The connection information may comprise information describing the wireless connections themselves e.g. connection start time and date connection end time and date connection duration etc. or information describing characteristics or data associated with the one or more wireless access points with which the computing device connects e.g. service set identifier wireless channel media access control address etc. . After retrieving the connection information the method advances to block .

In block the computing device computes one or more parameters and or prediction programs which may later be used to facilitate predicting which of the one or more wireless access points or the group of the one or more wireless access points is most likely to be in range of the computing device at a particular time e.g. a desired time of prediction . To do so the computing device may utilize one or more artificial intelligence based techniques to compute or otherwise generate the parameters and or prediction programs a function of the historical connection information stored in the log or the database. In some embodiments the computing device utilizes one or more genetic algorithms and or genetic programming techniques to generate the parameters and or prediction programs. Each parameter and or prediction program may be indicative of or otherwise correspond to a different connection probability computed from the historical connection information. After completion or at any appropriate time during computation of the parameters and or prediction programs the method advances to block . In block the computing device may store the computed parameters and or prediction programs in one or more databases e.g. the parameter database . In some embodiments the computed parameters may later be used to facilitate predicting which of the one or more wireless access points or the group of the one or more wireless access points is most likely e.g. most probable to be in range of the computing device at a given time.

Illustrative examples of the devices systems and methods disclosed herein are provided below. An embodiment of the devices systems and methods may include any one or more and any combination of the examples described below.

Example 1 includes a computing device for reducing a connection time to a wireless access point the computing device includes a wireless connection logging module to record in a log stored on the computing device wireless connection information for a plurality of wireless connections with one or more wireless access points the log includes historical wireless connection information an analysis module to calculate parameters based at least in part on the historical wireless connection information a prediction module to generate an ordered list of the one or more wireless access points to connect to at a desired time based at least in part on the parameters a wireless connection management module to select a first wireless access point from the ordered list with which to attempt a connection and a wireless communication module to send a probe frame to the selected first wireless access point.

Example 2 includes the subject matter of Example 1 and wherein the log further includes additional wireless connection information not yet used in the calculation of the parameters by the analysis module and wherein to generate an ordered list of the one or more wireless access points to connect to at a desired time based at least in part on the parameters includes to generate an ordered list of the one or more wireless access points to connect to at a desired time based at least in part on the parameters and the additional wireless connection information.

Example 3 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 and 2 and wherein each parameter includes a prediction program generated using a genetic programming operation and wherein to generate an ordered list of the one or more wireless access points to connect to at a desired time includes to execute the prediction program for each parameter to generate the ordered list of the one or more wireless access points.

Example 4 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 3 and wherein each parameter includes a probability computed based at least in part on the historical wireless connection information.

Example 5 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 4 and wherein the prediction module further to assign the probability computed for each parameter to a different additional wireless connection of the plurality of wireless connections recorded in the log.

Example 6 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 5 and wherein the prediction module further to identify a wireless access point corresponding to each additional wireless connection recorded in the log.

Example 7 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 6 and wherein the ordered list includes the one or more wireless access points arranged in descending order according to the corresponding probability assigned to each different additional wireless connection recorded in the log.

Example 8 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 7 and wherein to identify a wireless access point corresponding to each additional wireless connection recorded in the log includes to identify a wireless access point corresponding to each additional wireless connection recorded in the log based at least in part on one or more of a service set identifier a wireless channel and a media access control address associated with each wireless access point recorded in the log.

Example 9 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 8 and wherein the wireless connection management module further to establish a connection with the selected first wireless access point in response to the wireless communication module receiving a response to the probe frame from the selected first wireless access point.

Example 10 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 9 and wherein the wireless connection management module further to select a second wireless access point from the ordered list with which to attempt a connection in response to the wireless communication module not receiving a response to the probe frame from the first wireless access point.

Example 11 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 10 and wherein the wireless communication module to send a probe frame to the first wireless access point includes to send a first probe frame to the first wireless access point and wherein the wireless connection management module further to send a second probe frame to the selected second wireless access point in response to not receiving a response to the first probe frame from the first wireless access point.

Example 12 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 11 and wherein the wireless connection management module further to initiate a scan to locate one or more other wireless access points in response to the wireless communication module not receiving a response to the probe frame from any of the wireless access points of the ordered list.

Example 13 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 12 and wherein to send a probe frame to the selected first wireless access point includes to send a first probe frame to the selected first wireless access point wherein the wireless connection management module further to select a second wireless access point and a third wireless access point from the ordered list with which to attempt a connection wherein the wireless communication module further to send a second probe frame to the selected second wireless access point and a third probe frame to the selected third wireless access point contemporaneously with sending the first probe frame to the selected first wireless access point and wherein the wireless connection management module further to establish a connection with one of the selected first second or third wireless access points in response to the wireless communication module receiving a response to the probe frame from one of the corresponding selected first second or third wireless access points.

Example 14 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 13 and wherein the analysis module to calculate the parameters when the computing device is not in use by a user of the computing device.

Example 15 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 14 and wherein the analysis module to calculate the parameters only when the computing device is coupled to a power adaptor.

Example 16 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 1 15 and wherein the analysis module to calculate the parameters based at least in part on a reference interval.

Example 17 includes a method for reducing a connection time to a wireless access point the method including recording on a computing device in a log stored on the computing device wireless connection information for a plurality of wireless connections with one or more wireless access points the log includes historical wireless connection information calculating on the computing device parameters based at least in part on the historical wireless connection information generating on the computing device an ordered list of the one or more wireless access points to connect to at a desired time based at least in part on the parameters selecting on the computing device a first wireless access point from the ordered list with which to attempt a connection and sending on the computing device a probe frame to the selected first wireless access point.

Example 18 includes the subject matter of Example 17 and wherein the log further includes additional wireless connection information not yet used in the calculation of the parameters and wherein generating an ordered list of the one or more wireless access points to connect to at a desired time based at least in part on the parameters includes generating an ordered list of the one or more wireless access points to connect to at a desired time based at least in part on the parameters and the additional wireless connection information.

Example 19 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 17 and 18 and further including generating on the computing device a prediction program for each parameter using a genetic programming operation and wherein generating an ordered list of the one or more wireless access points to connect to at a desired time includes executing the prediction program from each parameter to generate the ordered list of the one or more wireless access points.

Example 20 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 17 19 and wherein each parameter includes a probability computed based at least in part on the historical wireless connection information.

Example 21 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 17 20 and further including assigning on the computing device the probability computed for each parameter to a different additional wireless connection of the plurality of wireless connections recorded in the log.

Example 22 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 17 21 and further including identifying on the computing device a wireless access point corresponding to each additional wireless connection recorded in the log.

Example 23 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 17 22 and wherein the ordered list includes the one or more wireless access points arranged in descending order according to the corresponding probability assigned to each different additional wireless connection recorded in the log.

Example 24 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 17 23 and wherein identifying a wireless access point corresponding to each additional wireless connection recorded in the log includes indentifying a wireless access point corresponding to each additional wireless connection recorded in the log based at least in part on one or more of a service set identifier a wireless channel and a media access control address associated with each wireless access point recorded in the log.

Example 25 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 17 24 and further including establishing on the computing device a connection with the selected first wireless access point in response to receiving a response to the probe frame from the selected first wireless access point.

Example 26 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 17 25 and further including selecting on the computing device a second wireless access point from the ordered list with which to attempt a connection in response to not receiving a response to the probe frame from the first wireless access point.

Example 27 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 17 26 and wherein sending a probe frame to the first wireless access point includes sending a first probe frame to the first wireless access point and wherein the method further including sending on the computing device a second probe frame to the selected second wireless access point in response to not receiving a response to the first probe frame from the first wireless access point.

Example 28 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 17 27 and further including initiating on the computing device a scan to locate one or more other wireless access points in response to not receiving a response to the probe frame from any of the wireless access points of the ordered list.

Example 29 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 17 28 and wherein sending a probe frame to the selected first wireless access point includes sending a first probe frame to the selected first wireless access point and wherein the method further including selecting on the computing device a second wireless access point and a third wireless access point from the ordered list with which to attempt a connection sending on the computing device a second probe frame to the selected second wireless access point and a third probe frame to the selected third wireless access point contemporaneously with sending the first probe frame to the selected first wirelesses access point and establishing on the computing device a connection with one of the selected first second or third wireless access points in response to the receiving a response to the probe frame from one of the corresponding selected first second or third wireless access points.

Example 30 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 17 29 and wherein calculating parameters based at least in part on the historical wireless connection information includes calculating parameters when the computing device is not in use by a user of the computing device.

Example 31 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 17 30 and wherein calculating parameters based at least in part on the historical wireless connection information includes calculating parameters only when the computing device is coupled to a power adaptor.

Example 32 includes the subject matter of any of Examples 17 31 and wherein calculating parameters based at least in part on the historical wireless connection information includes calculating parameters based at least in part on a reference interval.

Example 33 includes a computing device for reducing a connection time to a wireless access point the computing device including a processor and a memory having stored therein a plurality of instructions that when executed by the processor cause the computing device to perform the method of any of Examples 17 32.

Example 34 includes one or more machine readable storage media including a plurality of instructions stored thereon that in response to being executed result in a computing device performing the method of any of Examples 17 32.

