---

title: System and method for discovering photograph hotspots
abstract: A method and system for discovering locations of interesting photographs. The method includes receiving a geographic location and retrieving at least one portion of a map associated with the geographic location. The at least one portion of the map associated with the geographic location is displayed. A plurality of photographs tagged with the geographic location are asynchronously retrieved. The retrieved photographs are ranked based on interestingness of the retrieved photographs. The method further comprises dynamically propagating the at least one portion of the map with markers identifying locations of highest ranking photographs within the geographic location and indicating one or more photographic hotspots based on the propagated markers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08996305&OS=08996305&RS=08996305
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 08996305
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120607
---
A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The invention described herein generally relates to discovering the location of photographs on a map particularly of user tagged photographs that exhibit varying degrees of interestingness as well as discovering interesting locations from which to take photographs.

There are a number of location based online services available on the Internet or World Wide Web. For example the Yahoo Maps service provides maps and driving directions as well as online photos which are typically aerial photos supplied by Yahoo Another example includes the Google Maps service which provides similar functions. Most of these services require the user to select a particular location or locations allowing the user to download map satellite images or other information about the location. For instance the user may enter text into an interface for a particular city or street address and obtain back information as to for instance local restaurants hotels etc. on one s computer or computing device.

In addition to providing map and direction information some of these location based services also provide images or photographs associated with a location or business such as a Street View. When a user enters a location into these location based services random photographs submitted by different users and or street level photographs may be retrieved. These photographs have little interest value however and may not be particularly useful for photographers and tourists interested in finding areas with the best scenic views. Street level photographs are usually taken by cameras attached on moving vehicles driving on a road capturing multiple sequential photographs of the surrounding road and streets. As a result these photographs are more logistical and not necessarily useful in elegantly depicting areas of interest for a user who would like to find picturesque locations.

There are currently no systems that allow users to find areas of interest based on interesting photographs. As a tourist or a photographer one intends on finding and taking memorable pictures from one s travels. One often spends a substantial amount of time and energy doing research to find good photographic locations when planning a trip. Location is a critical aspect of photography and although there are known services that provide photos associated with various locations on a map the quality of the photos returned as part of a location based search is not necessarily controlled by filters such as tangible popularity gauging filters. Therefore there is a need for a system that provides locations on map of the most interesting photographs.

The present invention provides methods systems and computer program products for discovering locations of interesting photographs. The method according to one embodiment comprises receiving a geographic location and retrieving at least one portion of a map associated with the geographic location. The at least one portion of the map associated with the geographic location is displayed. A plurality of photographs tagged with the geographic location are retrieved which may be performed asynchronously. The retrieved photographs are ranked based on interestingness of the retrieved photographs. The method further comprises dynamically propagating the at least one portion of the map with markers identifying locations of highest ranking photographs within the geographic location and indicating one or more photographic hotspots based on the propagated markers. A hotspot may include a cluster of photographs or a set of closely grouped or overlapping photographs in a given location. These hotspots may indicate popular geographic locations that may be of interest to vacationers and photographers. The markers identifying locations of photographs may be displayed on a map and overlap each other. Each marker may be displayed as translucent shapes on a map and appear darker because of overlapping with a plurality of other markers.

According to one embodiment asynchronously retrieving one or more photographs tagged with geographic location information includes retrieving the photographs from one or more online photograph collections. In another embodiment asynchronously retrieving the photographs tagged with the geographic location information includes retrieving the photographs from one or more social networking websites. A zoom action on the displayed at least one portion of the map may be determined. The geographic location may be updated based on the zoom action and photographs tagged with the updated geographic location information may be retrieved. In one embodiment the markers on the at least one portion of the map may be displayed in colors based on the interestingness of the retrieved photographs.

In some embodiments the method comprises determining a user s location and providing navigation directions to a location associated with a given photograph. A distance between the user s location and the location of the given photograph is determined. A determination may be made whether the location of the given photograph is at least one of walkable and drivable distances.

In accordance with some aspects the method comprises generating a heat map based on the interestingness of the retrieved photographs. Coordinates identifying a geographical area are received as well as map data associated with the geographical area. One or more tagged photographs associated with the geographical area are retrieved. Weights are assigned to photographs based on interestingness of the photographs. The method further comprises generating a heat map of the geographical area based on the weights of the photographs and indicating one or more photographic hotspots on the heat map.

The method may further include determining relevance of the tags to the geographical area. A set of relevant photographs from the plurality of photographs are identified. The set of relevant photographs may be assigned extra weight. The one or more photographic hotspots indicated on the heat map may be based on tagged photographs within the boundaries of the geographical area and zoom level. A given zone may indicate an overall popularity of the plurality photographs clustered in the given zone.

In the following description of the embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present invention.

According to the present application a hotspot discovery system is provided. The hotspot discovery system shows the user the locations of interesting photos on a map based on a current location or the location of any selected location centered on the map. Locations of the interesting photographs in an area in particular densely photo populated locations may be referred to as hotspots. presents a mobile computing device including a photograph hotspot discovery system according to an embodiment of the present invention.

Device may comprise any mobile computing device such as a cell phone personal digital assistant PDA smartphone tablet computer E reader or any other computing device capable of connecting to a network. Although depicts device as a mobile computing device device is not limited to such devices and may comprise a personal computer PC workstation terminal or notebook computer. Device includes a graphical user interface GUI or a browser application provided on a display e.g. monitor screen LCD LED display touch screen projector etc. .

A hotspot application comprises software or instructions for remote execution run on and displayed on device . The hotspot application may be developed for and run on several operating systems such as Apple iOS Android Blackberry OS Microsoft Windows Phone and any other mobile operating system or PC operating systems. Hotspot application provides an interactive interface for locating and navigating to photos and photographic hotspots. The application may provide multiple hotspot discovery options and features such as Find Local Hotspots Find International Hotspots Find Random Hotspots and Most Popular Hotspots. The user may also specify a hotspot or photograph location radius defining the range to which hotspot discovery is limited given a user location or a user specified location.

Region map or a portion of a map may be retrieved and displayed by hotspot application in response to user selection of the hotspot discovery options. The user selections and various other commands may be received by clicking selecting pressing tapping icons buttons on device or via speech recognition techniques known by one of ordinary skill in the art. Upon selecting a hotspot discovery option region map may be generated and displayed on device . The region map may be generated from map information stored on device map files provided with hotspot application or map data retrieved from third party map service providers such as Yahoo Maps Bing Maps Google Maps Nokia Maps MapQuest etc.

Retrieval of the displayed region map may be determined based on a geographical location associated with the user of hotspot application displayed as user location on region map . According to another embodiment the displayed location of region map may be based on a user specified location independent from the user s location. A location other than the user s actual location may be provided to the system as a selected location in region map for vacation and travel planning or virtual exploration e.g. the Find International Hotspots feature .

As an example the display illustrated in may be provided in response to a user selection of the Find Local Hotspots option. The region map can be navigable by a user where the user may zoom in and out on the region map using for example finger gestures on a touch screen of device or other user interface interactions. A user may also pan drag or navigate region map by other touch screen finger gestures and user interface interactions. While navigating region map hotspot application may re create or update the displayed region map . Updating region map includes retrieving map data stored on device from a third party map service provider or from a cache of previous map retrievals.

User location may correspond to a real time location of the user of device . The real time location may be determined based on mobile phone tracking techniques. A location of the user can be determined by either mobile phone tracking techniques or a location manually specified by the user. Mobile phone tracking techniques can be used to ascertain a current position of a mobile phone device stationary or moving. This may be accomplished by techniques known by one of ordinary skill in art such as multilateration of radio signals between radio towers of a cellular network and the device Internet Protocol IP Geolocation and Global Positioning System GPS tracking. In another embodiment user location may be determined based on a location coordinates or address provided by the user.

An exemplary representation of user location is illustrated in . The user location is displayed as a dot or circle that represents an approximation of the actual coordinates or address of a current user location. The dot representing user location may be dynamically or periodically updated e.g. every couple of seconds or minutes . Hotspot application may also propagate and cause display of photos on region map such as photo and on region map . Photos and are displayed as markers or identifiers e.g. dots indicating the location of photographs determined to be of interest. Preferably but not required user location may be displayed as an identifier that is distinguishable from photos and . The markings representing user location and photos and may also be displayed on region map in various shapes colors and sizes. The various shapes colors and sizes may also be used to distinguish a user s location from the photos. According to an exemplary embodiment user location may be displayed as a blue dot while photos and may be displayed as red dots.

Photographs associated with a location of a user or region map e.g. geo tagged may be retrieved asynchronously using for example Asynchronous JavaScript and XML AJAX or other techniques or mechanisms suitable for creating asynchronous data transmission and retrieval as a background activity without interfering with the display and interaction with region map . The photographs may be retrieved from online photograph collections or from third party image hosting and sharing services. For example using the user s location photographs that have been tagged with a location geo tagged within the vicinity of the user location may be retrieved from the Yahoo Flickr photo service. Photographs may be ranked and selected based on their interest values for display on region map such as photos and .

Photographs with the highest rankings which may be based on an interestingness metric or photographs that are the most interesting may be selected and displayed on region map . According to one embodiment interestingness is a function that can be used to determine an interest level of a media object based on user actions related to the media object e.g. photographs including the amount of clickthroughs interactions comments views and time varying behavior of the aforementioned actions. The interestingness metric is described in further detail in commonly owned U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2006 0242139 entitled INTERESTINGNESS RANKING OF MEDIA OBJECTS which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Photos and may identify locations on region map of where either exactly or approximately interesting photographs have been taken or geo tagged with respect to the user s location. In one embodiment zooming in on the location area or region of photos and may lead to hotspot application to retrieve and cause display of additional photos. A user may select a given one of photo or e.g. tapping a location on a map on a touch screen of device corresponding to a dot associated with a photo to view the photograph. In addition to viewing the photograph the hotspot application may also provide navigation directions to the given photo. For example if the user location is within a predetermined range deemed as a walkable or drivable distance from the location of a given photo navigation directions may be provided to the user.

According to an embodiment hotspots may be identified using photos identified in hotspot application . Hotspots may include a cluster or a set of closely grouped and overlapping photographs. In another embodiment identifying hotspots is not necessarily limited to identifying clusters of photographs but may also include identifying clusters of other types of media objects such as video music etc. For example the hotspot discovery application may identify an area on a map including a plurality of interesting videos at the South Street Seaport in downtown Manhattan N.Y. as a hotspot.

Client device comprises map generator geographical location transceiver tag aggregator ranking engine photo aggregator and user interface . Through user interface client device may provide for the display of a photograph hotspot discovery application to a user of client device and for the interaction therewith. User interface may provide various options and features offered by the photograph hotspot discovery application such as the ones described above from which a user of client device may choose. In response to receiving a selection user interface may display a map image generated by map generator based on a selected option. Map generator may create or display a map interface based on map data stored on map database from map service provider . Requests for map data may be transmitted from client device to map service server where it responds to the request by retrieving map data from map database and transmitting the map data to client device .

The location of the user may also be determined by geographical location transceiver for certain options of the photograph hotspot discovery application e.g. Find Local Hotspots . Geographical location transceiver may send and receive communication signals with a satellite or a cellular network to determine the user s location. According to one embodiment geographical location transceiver may be a GPS device. The geographical location transceiver may periodically translate the communication signals into location data representing the user s current location and provide this information to map generator to render the user s location onto the map image on user interface .

Tag aggregator identifies photos with tags associated with a geographical location of the map image displayed on user interface . The tag aggregator may identify photos from one or more third party services such as image hosting provider . As known there exist online collections of images the images of which are generally provided with what is referred to in the field as tags or textual identification information. An example of this is the Yahoo Flickr web service. Flickr is a popular website for users to share store and tag personal photographs. The photographs can be made publicly available and searchable including searching the photographs by the tags. For example online image collections such as Flickr may include large databases of photos about famous landmarks and tourist related spots where each photo has one or more tags associated with these spots.

Photos or videos of streets and neighborhoods with tags may be created by users and or the service provider. Image hosting services such as Flickr may ask photo submitters to organize images using tags a form of metadata which enable searchers to find images related to particular topics such as place names or subject matter. Tags are generally chosen informally and personally by the creator of an item or by its viewer depending on the system. Tags may provide valuable information associated with the picture such as the subject event time and location associated with photograph. This kind of metadata helps describe photographs and allows for them to be found by browsing or searching.

Image hosting provider may comprise an online collection of images and provides for photograph storage and sharing services utilized by client device according to one embodiment. The image hosting provider includes a photo database and metadata database . Tag aggregator may search for and explore photographs which may be shared photographs associated with the location of the map image in metadata database . In another embodiment the user of client device may have an account with the image hosting provider and login with the user account to access photographs which may comprise publicly shared photographs as well as privately shared photographs of friends on the image hosting service. In yet another embodiment the user of client device may have a social networking account and tag aggregator may connect to a social networking website such as Facebook Google and Pinterest and retrieve tagged photographs of members in the user s social network.

Metadata database may store data records associated with photographs that have been tagged. Tag aggregator may identify that photographs are associated with a particular geographical location via tags or other fields stored in the photo data records. The photo data records may include fields such as tags author date photo index etc. The tags field may store user phrases or keywords embedded into a given photograph by the author or creator of the photograph. In one embodiment the tags field includes the location information of where a photograph was taken or is associated with. In another embodiment the location of a photograph may be stored in another field such as a geo tag field. Examples of tagging photographs with geographic location data or information are described in further detail in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2009 0222432 entitled GEO TAGGING AND AUTOMATIC GENERATION OF METADATA FOR PHOTOS AND VIDEOS and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2008 0204317 entitled SYSTEM FOR AUTOMATIC GEO TAGGING OF PHOTOS each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The author field may store the name of the creator or user associated with the photograph. A date field may indicate the date of which a photograph was taken or uploaded. The photo index field may store a reference number correlating a photo data record to a photograph or image file stored in photo database . The number of the photo index field may be used by photo aggregator to retrieve the photograph associated with a given photo data record. In addition the photo data records may also include information associated with user actions related to a photograph used to determine interestingness. Photo tagging service server may create and update these data records as well as manage the associations between the records in metadata database and the photographs stored in photo database .

In some embodiments the tag aggregator is operative to send asynchronous requests to photo tagging service server for retrieving location relevant photo data records. Tag aggregator may include a text based image retrieval search engine. Location relevant tagged photographs may be determined based on the tag or the geo tag fields within the photo data records. Asynchronous requests allows for the display of a map image while photos are discovered in the background and may be dynamically propagated for display on the map image. The photo data records may be transmitted from image hosting provider to client device and stored or cached e.g. by tag aggregator .

The photo data records may be analyzed by ranking engine which is operative to determine the interestingness of the photographs associated with the photo data records and rank them accordingly. In an alternative embodiment photo data records may include an existing interestingness field with an interestingness metric value determined by image hosting provider or other entity. When an interestingness value of a given photograph has already been determined the system according to one embodiment may use the provided interestingness value as is or modify the provided interestingness value. According to another embodiment where interestingness is not provided by image hosting provider ranking engine or other component may calculate interestingness values for each of the retrieved photographs.

Regardless of the interestingness value used photographs deemed as the most interesting according to the interestingness value are identified. The identification may be communicated to map generator where photo identifiers corresponding to the photographs are generated for display on the map image. The photo indicators may be dynamically propagated for display on the map as each interesting photograph is identified e.g. in real time or in batches. According to another embodiment map generator may wait for the retrieval of a predetermined number of identified photos before displaying a map image with photos where additional photos may be subsequently propagated for display on the map image.

A user of client device may select a given photo on the map image displayed by user interface . Upon selection of a photo the photograph associated with the selected location may be displayed along with its tags or metadata. The photograph may be retrieved by photo aggregator from image hosting provider . Photo aggregator may generate and transmit a request to photo tagging service server for the retrieval of the photograph corresponding to the selected location using the photo index field in the photo data record associated with the selected photo. Photo tagging service server may look up and retrieve a photograph corresponding to the value of the photo index field from photo database and transmit the photograph to client device . In another embodiment photo aggregator may store or cache the photographs corresponding to the identifiers prior to user selection. The retrieved photo and the information in the photo data record retrieved by tag aggregator may be used by user interface to display the photograph and the details associated with the photograph.

According to one embodiment displaying a photograph and related details may also include providing one or more navigation options to the location associated with the selected photo. An option for walking or driving navigation guidance may be available to the user of client device based on the distance between the user of client device and a photo. The availability of navigation guidance may also be determined based on any terrain physical political and legal limitations that may prevent walking or driving to the location of the photo. A navigation request may be received by map service server of the map service provider from client device . The request may include geographical location information of client device determined by geographical location transceiver and a location extracted from photo data record of the displayed photograph.

In response navigation engine may calculate one or more routes between the geographical location of the client device and the location associated with the displayed photograph. The one or more calculated routes are transmitted to the client device where they may be used to create a highlighted route on the map image by map generator and to provide navigation directions via user interface . In an alternative embodiment the navigation routes may instead be calculated and provided by the map generator to user interface .

According to another embodiment some or most of the components in client device illustrated in may instead be located on a remote server not illustrated to provide the photograph hotspot discovery system as a cloud based service. The remote server may perform the processing functions of one or more components comprised in client device . Data communications with map service provider and image hosting provider may also be transitioned to the remote server therefore simplifying and reducing bandwidth usage of client device .

In a next step at least one portion of a map associated with the geographic location is retrieved. A search radius may be predefined or indicated by the user for determining the portion of the map to display with reference to the received geographical location. The map may be retrieved from a third party map data provider or from preexisting map data stored on the computing device running the hotspot discovery application suitable for use by the application. Retrieving the at least one portion of the map associated with the received geographic location may also include displaying the at least one portion of the map to the user. In some embodiments the user s location may also be displayed on the map relative to the geographic location e.g. the user s location is centered on the map display as illustrated in .

Photographs with geo tags associated with the geographic location are retrieved step which may be retrieved from online photograph collections that store photographs and where the photographs can be made publicly available. In another embodiment the photographs may be retrieved from social networking sites where only certain photographs are available to the user of the photograph hotspot discovery application based on the user s social network connections. According to some embodiments the photographs may be retrieved in the background via asynchronous communications between the photograph hotspot discovery application and the photograph source. Retrieving the photographs may include extracting metadata associated with the photographs and parsing geographical information. The photograph hotspot discovery application may determine using the extracted geographical information of the photographs whether the photographs are associated with the received geographic location.

In one embodiment geo tags may be embedded into photographs by the process of geotagging. Geotagging may include geographical identification metadata of media such as photographs videos and other types of media. Data in a given geo tag may include but is not limited to latitude and longitude coordinates altitude bearing distance accuracy data street address and place names. Geotagging can help users find a variety of location specific information e.g. one can find images taken near a given location by entering latitude and longitude coordinates. Geotagging may also inform users the location of the content of a given picture or other media and allows for the photograph hotspot discovery application to show media relevant to a given location. Media such as photographs may be geotagged by capturing geographical information at the time the photograph is taken or by attaching geographical information after the picture is taken. To capture geographical data at the time the photograph is captured a camera may interface with a geographical location module such as in a smartphone that includes GPS capabilities.

The retrieved photographs are ranked based on interestingness step . According to one embodiment interestingness is a measure of interest of a media object such as photograph that can be based on several factors such as click through interactions comments and views. Ranking the photographs associated with the geographical location may include determining an interestingness score for a given photograph. The interestingness score may be provided by the source of the retrieved photographs. In an alternative embodiment the interestingness score is calculated by the photograph hotspot discovery application or another server side process. The ranking of the retrieved photographs is in a direct relationship with the interestingness score e.g. the higher the interestingness score the higher the ranking The ranking may be based on a ranking relative to each photograph in a pool of retrieved photographs a ranking based on an average interestingness of the photographs that have been retrieved for the geographical location or any other ranking algorithms known by one of ordinary skill in the art or combination thereof.

Step includes propagating the at least one portion of the map with markers identifying the location of highest ranking photos within the geographic location. A subset of photographs with the highest interestingness scores may be identified on the map with photo markers. In embodiments where user location is also displayed on the map as a marker the photo markers may be distinguished from the user location marker by for example color shape and or size. According to another embodiment propagating the at least one portion of the map with markers identifying the location of highest ranking photos within the geographic location includes identifying and propagating the at least one portion of the map with markers identifying the location of photographs with interestingness scores above a predetermined threshold. The threshold may be an interestingness value that indicates that a given photograph is interesting enough for warranting a display on the map. Markers may be displayed as translucent identifiers that are propagated over other photo markers on at least one portion of the map and may appear darker as a result of overlapping with other photo markers. The resulting darker markers from overlapping and close groupings or clusters of photo markers may be used to identify hotspot locations. Further discussion of overlapping markers is described with reference to the description of .

A determination is made whether a zooming action has been detected step . The user of the photograph hotspot discovery application may zoom in and zoom out of a displayed portion of the map. The determination of a zooming action may include monitoring for any change in the display of the map caused by the user. Detecting a zooming action may also include a detected movement of the user s location panning or scrolling of the displayed map. If a zooming action is detected the geographic location is updated based on the zooming action step .

When a zooming action occurs the displayed map portion and search radius associated with the received geographic location may be updated and the method returns to step . For example if the user zooms in from city level to street level the photographs are retrieved from the online photograph collections at the street level. The street level may create a more refined search of photograph hotspots that causes the display of a greater number of photos for the zoomed in area of the map than previously displayed on the map before the zooming action. Previous photographs obtained at the city level may be cached if the user zooms back out. At the street level if the user pans over to a location one mile away the application may automatically start retrieving photographs for the new location. Older photographs may remain cached if the user pans back to the older street location.

When no zooming action is detected it is determined whether there are any more photographs with geo tags associated with the geographic location step . If there are still photographs the method returns to step to retrieve additional photographs. Retrieving photographs may be performed in the background even when the user is browsing photographs or viewing photographs. If there are no longer additional photographs to be retrieved the method loops back to step where a polling loop is created for detecting a zooming action. The polling routine step may be run continuously until termination of the photograph hotspot discovery application. In another embodiment steps and are not limited to being performed only after step but rather step can be a software interrupt that may be triggered for example anytime between steps through . Step may be an interrupt service routine ISR that is performed upon triggering of step . Upon the occurrence of a zooming action step may trigger a change in execution of the method flow and perform the ISR of step .

A user looking for good locations for photography may use a photograph hotspot discovery application. The application may show the locations of interesting photos and hotspots in a given area. through illustrate screenshots of the photograph hotspot discovery application according to one embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment the photograph hotspot discovery application may highlight the clustered and or overlapping photos to indicate hotspots. As illustrated in marker is displayed in a darker color or shade compared to that of marker due to other photos of which marker overlaps. More interesting areas may include overlapping dots with deeper shades of a given color indicating high hotness of high photo density or hotspots. According to one embodiment a darker shading of a photo marker and clustering of other surround photos may indicate that a photo associated with marker has a higher interestingness or a higher interest level in relation to a photo associated with marker . For example different shades of colors for photo identifiers can help a user determine for example that the location of marker near the Washington Monument is more interesting than the location of marker near The United States Department of Commerce and the region around marker may therefore be identified as a hotspot.

In display screen presents a region map with photo . A user may tap select or click a given photo marker on display screen . Tapping on marker which happens to be displayed near the Washington Monument may reveal a photograph shown in photographic view . Alternatively a user may be presented with a list of photographs to select from when marker corresponds to overlapping photographs. Photographic view includes photo title Monument at Night and photo information . Photo title may be a short caption or description produced by a person who submitted the photograph. Photo information may include the author the date in which the photograph was taken the number of users marking the photograph as a favorite the number of views etc.

Continuing with the present example it may be determined that there is a large concentration or a hotspot of interesting photos is on the south eastern tip of the island around Honolulu. Accordingly a user may want to zoom in even further at location which may be identified as a hotspot location. Zooming in on region may transition to display screen which displays an enlarged view of location . As the zoom level increases for a specific location on a map so do the number of photos that appear due to a finer granularity of photo searching and an enlarged display area to fit a cluster of photos in a given area of the map. When zoomed into Honolulu the user may see that there are a number of interesting photos on Waikiki beach. Upon a desirable zoom or display of the location the user may select a given photo in location to provide a photograph view of a picture of Waikiki beach. Upon selection the photo is revealed and the application displays additional details associated with the photograph. If available the application may also provide information to allow the user to navigate to the location of the viewed photograph.

Using the distance a determination is made of whether the location of the photograph is less than a predetermined distance from the user location step . The predetermined distance is a distance determined as within walking distance however this walking distance can be configurable and may be modified by the user or by the system when considering other factors such as environmental terrain and legal restrictions. If the user clicks on a photograph and the photograph is within a predetermined distance from the user it is determined that the user is within walking distance from the location of the photograph and a walk to photo navigation is enabled step . A display of the photograph with a navigation option to the geographical location associated with the photograph is provided step . As a result of the enabled walking navigation the displayed photograph may show a walk to photo control. In a next step step a selection of the navigation is received. Navigation directions to the location of the photograph based on the enabled navigation are provided step . Upon clicking the walk to photo button the map may zoom into an area covering the user and the photograph showing walking directions to the location of the photograph.

Continuing with the embodiment that illustrates if the user is not within a walkable distance from the location of the selected photograph it is determined whether the location of the photograph is drivable from the user s location step . The drivability to the location of the photograph may be determined based on another predetermined distance that is greater than or equal to the walkable distance. If neither of steps nor are satisfied a display of the photograph is provided without walking and driving navigation in such a case.

A determination of satisfaction of step e.g. the photograph location is drivable from the user s location enables drive to photo navigation step . A display of the photograph with a navigation option to the geographical location associated with the photograph is provided step . When viewing photographs if the user clicks on a photograph to view it and if the distance between user s location and photograph is drivable but not walkable the photograph may have a drive to photo control. A selection of the navigation option is received in step and in a next step step navigation directions to the location of the photograph are provided based on the enabled navigation. Upon clicking the drive to photo control driving directions are provided to the location where the photograph was taken. In an alternative embodiment if the location of the photograph is both within the walking distance and drivable both walk to photo and drive too photo navigation options may be enabled.

Coordinates identifying a geographical area are received step . Exact coordinates addresses or a general location may be received to indicate the geographical area. The coordinates can be provided via manual input by a user or an administrator or be provided by a geographical location determining device such as a GPS. Map data associated with the geographical area is retrieved step . The map data may be used as a template for the heat map.

Tagged photos associated with the geographical area are retrieved step . The photographs may be retrieved from online photograph collections or social networks that store photographs that are made available to the photograph hotspot discovery system. Photographs retrieved may be interesting photographs photos with higher interestingness and relevant photos photos with relevant tags . In a next step step weights are assigned to the photographs based on their interestingness and wherein photographs with higher interestingness values may be assigned greater or extra weight than photographs of lesser interestingness values. The weights of the photographs may be used to determine the details of the heat map corresponding to an interestingness statistic associated with at least a portion of the geographical area.

The tags of the tagged photos are extracted step . Relevancy of the tags to the geographical area is determined step . Determining the relevancy of the tags may include ordering the tags of the retrieved photos according to the number of occurrences of a given tag among the tagged photos. The top percentage of frequently occurring tags may be chosen. The top percentage of tags may be further filtered by removing irrelevant tags. Irrelevant tags may be tags that might have meaning to the user who took the photographs but are not necessarily relevant to the particular geographical area. For example tags like US California for the location San Diego Zoo may be considered irrelevant tags and do not add any value for a person searching for photos within this area.

According to one embodiment relevancy of tags is distinguished from interestingness in that relevancy compares the similarity of tags of a photograph with other photographs in the geographical area. The relevancy may be used to determine that a photograph is relevant to the geographical area. For example photographs around the San Diego Zoo are expected to have the tags zoo animals zebra lion etc. The search may gather all or a subset of at least a portion of the geographical area and analyze the relevance of the tags with respect to the geographical area or the relevance among the tags within the at least one portion of the geographical area. The relevancy of the tags may also help identify particular zones in the geographical area where tags of a common theme indicate a relevance cluster.

It is determined whether the photographs have relevant tags step . A set of photographs with relevant tags may be identified as relevant photographs pertaining to at least a portion of the geographical area. Relevant photographs are assigned extra weight step before generating a heat map of the geographical area based on the weights of the photographs in step . The amount of extra weight assigned to the relevant photographs may be based on the degree of relevancy of the tags. Photographs that lack relevant tags or relevancy are not assigned the extra weight before generating the heat map of the geographical area.

Heat maps may be generated based on standard heat map generation algorithms and visually overlaid over a map. The generated heat maps may be used to provide maps similar to maps with photo markers but instead of photo markers the map is overlaid with coloring and or shading indicating zones of varying interestingness or popularity for a particular geographical area e.g. hotspots . Continuing with the above described embodiment locations of photographs that are more heavily weighed i.e. more popular may be designated as hot zones. Conversely locations of photograph clusters that contain lesser weights may be designated as cold zones. Zones that fall in between the weighting of hot zones and cold zones may be designated as for example warm zones lukewarm zones cool zones etc.

Each distinct zone may also be assigned different colors and or shading indicating the weight of the photographs on the heat map. The hotness of the zones on a heat map may also depend on the center of the map and zoom level according to the set of photos that are confined within the current boundaries of the screen. For example a particular street within a city may appear hot when zoom level is at the city level but may not be as hot when the zoom level is higher at a county or district level because the set of photos within the boundaries of the screen may become much larger. In other words heat map results may vary based on a zoom level. In some embodiments heat maps may be pre generated and cached on the server side for faster performance.

In software implementations computer software e.g. programs or other instructions and or data is stored on a machine readable medium as part of a computer program product and is loaded into a computer system or other device or machine via a removable storage drive hard drive or communications interface. Computer programs also called computer control logic or computer readable program code are stored in a main and or secondary memory and executed by one or more processors controllers or the like to cause the one or more processors to perform the functions of the invention as described herein. In this document the terms machine readable medium computer program medium and computer usable medium are used to generally refer to media such as a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a removable storage unit e.g. a magnetic or optical disc flash memory device or the like a hard disk or the like.

Notably the figures and examples above are not meant to limit the scope of the present invention to a single embodiment as other embodiments are possible by way of interchange of some or all of the described or illustrated elements. Moreover where certain elements of the present invention can be partially or fully implemented using known components only those portions of such known components that are necessary for an understanding of the present invention are described and detailed descriptions of other portions of such known components are omitted so as not to obscure the invention. In the present specification an embodiment showing a singular component should not necessarily be limited to other embodiments including a plurality of the same component and vice versa unless explicitly stated otherwise herein. Moreover applicants do not intend for any term in the specification or claims to be ascribed an uncommon or special meaning unless explicitly set forth as such. Further the present invention encompasses present and future known equivalents to the known components referred to herein by way of illustration.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the invention that others can by applying knowledge within the skill of the relevant art s including the contents of the documents cited and incorporated by reference herein readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without undue experimentation without departing from the general concept of the present invention. Such adaptations and modifications are therefore intended to be within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments based on the teaching and guidance presented herein. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation such that the terminology or phraseology of the present specification is to be interpreted by the skilled artisan in light of the teachings and guidance presented herein in combination with the knowledge of one skilled in the relevant art s .

While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example and not limitation. It would be apparent to one skilled in the relevant art s that various changes in form and detail could be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

