---

title: User equipment (UE)-specific assignment of demodulation reference signal (DMRS) sequences to support uplink (UL) coordinated multipoint (CoMP)
abstract: Technology for user equipment (UE)-specific assigning of demodulation reference signal (DM-RS) sequences to support uplink (UL) coordinated multipoint (CoMP) is disclosed. One method can include a DM-RS sequence assignment device sorting the plurality of UE into a list according to a number of reception point (RP) links for each UE in a CoMP set, and assigning a base DM-RS sequence and a cyclic shift (CS) to a top-ranked UE from the list. The top-ranked UE can have a highest number of RP links. The DM-RS sequence assignment device can repeatedly assign a different CS of the base DM-RS sequence to a plurality of unassigned UE in a same cell as the top-ranked UE, and repeatedly assign the different CS of the base DM-RS sequence to a plurality of unassigned UE in a cooperatively served cell of the top-ranked UE.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08811144&OS=08811144&RS=08811144
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 08811144
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120629
---
This application claims the benefit of and hereby incorporates by reference U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 556 109 filed Nov. 4 2011.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a node e.g. transmission station and a wireless device. Some wireless devices communicate using orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA in a downlink DL transmission and single carrier frequency division multiple access SC FDMA in an uplink UL transmission. Standards and protocols that use OFDM and SC FDMA modulation for signal transmission include the third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard e.g. 802.16e 802.16m which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi.

In 3GPP radio access network RAN LTE systems the node can be a combination of Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and Radio Network Controllers RNCs which communicate with a wireless device e.g. mobile device known as a user equipment UE . A downlink DL transmission can be a communication from the node station or eNodeB to the wireless device or UE and an uplink UL transmission can be a communication from the wireless device to the node.

In homogeneous networks HomNets the node also called a macro node can provide basic wireless coverage to wireless devices in a cell. The cell can be the area in which the wireless devices are operable to communicate with the macro node. Heterogeneous networks HetNets are used to handle the increased traffic loads on the macro nodes due to increased usage and functionality of wireless devices. HetNets can include a layer of planned high power macro nodes or macro eNBs overlaid with layers of lower power nodes micro eNBs pico eNBs femto eNBs or home eNBs HeNBs that can be deployed in a less well planned or even entirely uncoordinated manner within the coverage area cell of a macro node. The lower power nodes LPNs can generally be referred to as low power nodes . The macro node can be used for basic coverage and the low power nodes can be used to fill coverage holes to improve capacity in hot zones or at the boundaries between the macro nodes coverage areas and improve indoor coverage where building structures impede signal transmission. Inter cell interference coordination ICIC or enhanced ICIC eICIC may be used for resource coordination to reduce interference between the nodes such as macro nodes and low power nodes in a HetNet.

A Coordinated MultiPoint CoMP system may also be used to reduce interference from neighboring nodes in both homogeneous networks and HetNets. In the Coordinated MultiPoint CoMP system the nodes referred to as cooperating nodes can also be grouped together with other nodes where the nodes from multiple cells can transmit signals to the wireless device and receive signals from the wireless device. The cooperating nodes can be nodes in the homogeneous network or macro nodes and or lower power nodes LPN in the HetNet. CoMP operation can apply to downlink transmissions and uplink transmissions. Downlink CoMP operation can be divided into two categories coordinated scheduling or coordinated beamforming CS CB or CS CBF and joint processing or joint transmission JP JT . With CS CB a given subframe can be transmitted from one cell to a given wireless device e.g. UE and the scheduling including coordinated beamforming is dynamically coordinated between the cells in order to control and or reduce the interference between different transmissions. For joint processing joint transmission can be performed by multiple cells to a wireless device e.g. UE in which multiple nodes transmit at the same time using the same time and frequency radio resources and or dynamic cell selection. Uplink CoMP operation can be divided into two categories joint reception JR and coordinated scheduling and beamforming CS CB . With JR a physical uplink shared channel PUSCH transmitted by the wireless device e.g. UE can be received jointly at multiple points at a time frame. The set of the multiple points can constitute the CoMP reception point RP set and can be included in part of UL CoMP cooperating set or in an entire UL CoMP cooperating set. JR can be used to improve the received signal quality. In CS CB user scheduling and precoding selection decisions can be made with coordination among points corresponding to the UL CoMP cooperating set. With CS CB PUSCH transmitted by the UE can be received at one point.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In uplink UL joint reception JR Coordinated MultiPoint CoMP significant performance gains can be achieved compared to non CoMP operation by exploiting the broadcast nature of the wireless medium. However each cooperation link can have a lower signal quality than a link to a serving cell because a pathloss of each cooperation link can be larger than a serving link. Therefore a channel estimation CE quality of additional link s to the cooperating receiver s of a CoMP set can be valuable for obtaining significant gains through cooperation. For example the CE performance for a link to a cooperating cell k may be severely affected by demodulation reference signal DM RS transmissions of one or more wireless devices e.g. UEs served in the cooperating cell k apart from the uplink DM RS transmissions from other wireless devices e.g. UEs in the neighboring cells. As used herein UE can refer to a single UE or a plurality of UEs. Consequently more benefits from UL CoMP can be achieved by better orthogonality between DM RS transmissions from wireless devices belonging to different cells within a CoMP set or by better realization of area splitting gains e.g. in CoMP scenario as described below . As used herein the CoMP set can refer to a UL CoMP cooperating set.

The UL CoMP cooperating set can include a set of points that may be intended for data reception from a wireless device e.g. UE . The UL CoMP cooperating set can include a set of points that perform channel estimation CE for scheduling based on sounding reference signal SRS transmissions e.g. periodic SRS transmissions from the wireless device. The set of points can be determined by a node e.g. eNB based on wireless device s feedback on a CoMP resource management CRM set or through measurement based on SRS transmissions in the UL at multiple points e.g. reception points . The CRM set if defined can include a set of channel state information reference signals CSI RS resources for which CSI RS based received signal measurements can be made and reported by the wireless device. Such long term measurements may be reported by the wireless device to convey information on nearby points to aid the node or a core network in determining the UL CoMP cooperating set. SRS transmissions can be configured so the network can measure the UL signal quality at potential RPs. The measurement information may be used to determine the UL signal quality of the UL CoMP cooperating set in which case the CRM set may not be specifically defined or signaled for the wireless device. Within a CoMP signaling framework the UL CoMP cooperating set can be considered UE specific and may be set or changed semi statically or dynamically via radio resource control RRC or media access control MAC signaling.

A CoMP reception point RP set can be a set of points that actively receives data from a wireless device e.g. UE . The CoMP RP set can be a subset of the UL CoMP cooperating set. In JR the CoMP RP set can include multiple points from the UL CoMP cooperating set. The constitution of the CoMP RP set may vary on a subframe timescale depending on the UL scheduling decisions at a node e.g. eNB . Similar to the UL CoMP cooperating set the CoMP RP set can be considered UE specific.

Efficiently assigning UL DM RS sequences to wireless devices within a coordinated multi point CoMP set can improve orthogonality between DM RS transmissions from wireless devices belonging to different cells within a CoMP set or provide higher area splitting gains e.g. in CoMP scenario as described below . UL DM RS sequences can be assigned by selecting various UL DM RS parameters e.g. information relating to the sequence initialization seed base sequence cyclic shift CS or orthogonal cover code OCC . As used herein CS can refer to a single CS or a plurality of CSs. The assignment of DM RS base sequences can be cell specific where multi user multiple input and multiple output MU MIMO wireless devices scheduled for PUSCH transmission in a cell can be assigned a same base sequence and different cyclic shifts CS to provide orthogonality between simultaneous DM RS transmissions from wireless devices within a cell. A low correlation e.g. greater interference or less orthogonality can occur between DM RS transmissions from inter cell wireless device in UL CoMP system when different DM RS base sequences are assigned to neighboring cells. Wireless devices with different base sequences can have less orthogonality e.g. greater interference than wireless devices with a same base sequence and different CS. However in some deployments like in CoMP scenario where the macro cell and the LPNs in the macro cell coverage area can share a common physical cell ID PCI better CE performance can be achieved by exploiting area splitting gains and better interference averaging via assigning different DM RS base sequences to UEs associated with nodes that may be geographically isolated from each other.

By assigning the same base sequences with different CS to cooperating cells for a wireless device via a systematic UE specific DM RS sequence assignment method a significant improvement of a CE quality for the cooperating links can be achieved i.e. a channel from a wireless device in one cell to another cooperating cell within the CoMP set while maintaining good CE performance for the serving links in a same cell.

In a first wireless device can be described in relation to the cells e.g. nodes in a network. For example the CoMP set can include four cells and e.g. nodes . The first wireless device can have three 3 reception point links including a home link to a home cell e.g. a home node and cooperative links and to cooperatively served cells and e.g. cooperatively served nodes . In an example the link to the home cell can provide a strongest signal power. A second wireless device can have a home link to the home cell of the first wireless device. The home cell can also provide links e.g. for a scheduled wireless device to other wireless devices e.g. a third wireless device in the cooperatively served cells and provide links to other wireless devices e.g. a fourth wireless device in a cooperatively served cell e.g. cooperatively served node . A cooperatively served cell of a wireless device e.g. the first wireless device can include a cell e.g. nodes and within the CoMP set that has a scheduled wireless device e.g. the third wireless device that is cooperatively served by the home cell of the wireless device e.g. the first wireless device . The cooperatively serving cell of a wireless device e.g. the first wireless device can include a cell e.g. nodes and belonging to the CoMP RP set of the wireless device e.g. the first wireless device and cooperatively serving cell can be different from the wireless device s home cell e.g. node . A cell e.g. node in the network may not be in a first wireless device s CoMP RP set.

From the perspective of the third wireless device the third wireless device can have two 2 reception point links including a home link to a home cell e.g. a home node and a cooperative link to a cooperatively serving cell e.g. a cooperatively serving node . A fifth wireless device can have a home link to the home cell of the second wireless device. The fourth wireless device can have a home link to the home cell of the fourth wireless device and a cooperative link to the cooperatively serving cells from the perspective of the fourth wireless device. In another example a sixth wireless device with a home link to a cell e.g. node may include one cell e.g. node in the sixth wireless device s CoMP RP set or the wireless device may not be configured for UL CoMP.

Referring back to UE specific DM RS sequence assignments the base sequence planning for the network can be implemented to assign the same base sequences with different CS to cooperating cells. For UE specific DM RS sequence assignment instead of reserving a single base sequence for each cell in the network a set of N base sequences can be reserved for each CoMP set. The value of N can depend on a sum of a maximum number of MU MIMO wireless devices e.g. UE considered in each cell of the CoMP set and a total number of CS available for each base sequence. For example consider a maximum of two UEs being scheduled in each cell and a maximum of eight CS available for each base sequence. Hence for the example in which a CoMP set is defined to include a macro cell and four low power nodes LPN for a HetNet e.g. a maximum of ten UEs N can equal two e.g. N 2 base sequences per CoMP set i.e. 2 base sequences 8 CS available for each base sequence 16 available sequences for the ten UEs in the CoMP set can be reserved which can correspond to a single macro cell coverage area as illustrated by the example. The number of base sequences can be determined by the following equation a number of base sequences times a number of CS available for each base sequence can be greater than or equal to a number of wireless devices in a network area. The number of CS available may vary based on the minimum CS distance and the length of the base sequence.

Referring back to a base sequence from the pool of base sequences reserved for the CoMP set and a CS can be assigned to the selected unassigned UE . The remaining unassigned UEs in the same cell e.g. home cell of the UE assigned a base sequence and CS in the step can then be sorted into a list e.g. a power gain list based on descending order of long term channel power gains e.g. RSRP type feedback from the UEs or SRS measurements step not shown in . The power gain list can be created and used on a per cell basis e.g. the UEs within a particular home cell cooperatively served or cooperatively serving cell can be sorted based on relative channel power gains within the specified cell in contrast to a global power gain list across the entire CoMP set . A top ranked unassigned UE from the power gain list in the home cell can be selected step not shown in where a top ranked unassigned UE is a UE with a greatest long term channel power gain. Next if an unassigned UE in the same cell exists an unassigned UE in a same cell can be determined i.e. if there is an unassigned UE in the power gain list . In another example the remaining unassigned UE in the same cell can be sorted into a second list e.g. a power gain list based on a ascending order of channel pathloss values e.g. based on RSRP type feedback from the UEs or SRS measurements . A top ranked unassigned UE from the power gain list in the home cell can be selected where a top ranked unassigned UE is a UE with the smallest channel pathloss value.

If a next unassigned UE in the power gain list in a home cell of the UE assigned in the step exists the same base sequence and a different cyclic shift CS can be assigned to next unassigned UEs in the home cell e.g. same cell of the UE assigned a base sequence and CS in the step. If another CS is available the next unassigned UE in the power gain list in the same cell e.g. home cell can be assigned the same base sequence and a different CS in descending order of channel powers as the UE assigned the base sequence and the CS in the step until the home cell UEs are assigned. If another CS is not available the next unassigned UE in the home cell can be assigned a new e.g. different base sequence and a CS .

A cooperatively served cell for the top ranked UE of the RP list that was assigned a DM RS base sequence and CS in can be selected. The selection may follow any specific criterion when a plurality of such cooperatively served cells for the top ranked UE exist e.g. the cooperatively served cells can be selected in an ascending order of unassigned UEs in each cooperatively served cell . If unassigned UEs in the selected cooperatively served cell exist of the UE assigned in the step the unassigned UEs in the cooperatively served cell can be selected for assignment of DM RS sequences when the number of CS available e.g. CS left with the same base sequence is greater than or equal to the number of unassigned UEs in the cooperatively served cell that is cooperatively served by the serving cell e.g. home cell of the UE assigned the base sequence and the CS in the step. The UEs in the cooperatively served cell can then be sorted into a power gain list and the top ranked unassigned UE from the power gain list can be selected. The selected unassigned UE can be assigned the same base sequence and a different CS as the UE assigned the base sequence and the CS in the step. If another CS is available the next unassigned UE in the power gain list of the same cell e.g. the cooperatively served cell can be assigned the same base sequence and a different CS in descending order of channel powers as the UE assigned a base sequence in the step until the cooperatively served cell UEs are assigned.

If unassigned UEs exist in the selected cooperatively served cell of the UE assigned in the step and when the number of CS available with the same base sequence as the UE assigned e.g. top ranked UE in the step is less than the number of unassigned UE in the cooperatively served cell a next top ranked unassigned UE from the RP link list can be assigned a new e.g. different base sequence and a CS . The process described above can repeat again with the home cell being the serving cell of the next top ranked UE.

Referring back to steps and if no unassigned UEs exist in the home cell or in the plurality of cooperatively served cell of the UE assigned in the step e.g. all the home cell UE and the cooperatively served cell have been assigned a cooperatively serving cell for the UE assigned in the step can be selected. The selection may follow any specific criterion when a plurality of such cooperatively serving cells for the top ranked UE exist e.g. the cooperatively serving cells could be selected in an ascending order of unassigned UEs in each cooperatively serving cell . If unassigned UEs exist in the selected cooperatively serving cell of the UE assigned in the step the unassigned UEs in the cooperatively serving cell can be selected for assignment of DM RS sequences when the number of CS available with the same base sequence is greater than the number of unassigned UE in the cooperatively serving cell of the UE assigned the base sequence and CS in the step. The UEs in the cooperatively serving cell can then be sorted into a power gain list and the top ranked unassigned UE from the power gain list can be selected. The selected unassigned UE can be assigned the same base sequence and a different CS as the UE assigned the base sequence and the CS in the step. If another CS is available the next unassigned UE in the power gain list of the same cell e.g. the cooperatively serving cell can be assigned the same base sequence and a different CS in descending order of channel powers as the UE assigned a base sequence in the step until the unassigned UEs in the cooperatively serving cell are assigned a DM RS base sequence and CS.

If no unassigned UEs exist in the home cell or in the plurality of cooperatively served cell of the UE assigned in the step e.g. all the home cell UE and the cooperatively served cell have been assigned and when the number of CS available with the same base sequence as the UE assigned e.g. top ranked UE in the step is less than the number of unassigned UE in the cooperatively serving cell a next top ranked unassigned UE from the RP link list can be assigned a new e.g. different base sequence and a CS . The process described above can repeat again with the home cell being the serving cell of the next top ranked UE. Each UE assigned with a DM RS sequence can be removed from the lists e.g. the RP link list and the power gain list .

Referring back to step when and or if the home cell UEs the cooperating served cell UEs and cooperating serving cell UEs have been assigned with a same base sequence as the UE assigned in step another unassigned UE can be determined from the RP link list . When no more unassigned UE is still on the list the DM RS sequence assignment process configured for UL CoMP sets can stop until the DM RS sequences are reassigned. If another unassigned UE is still on the list a next top ranked unassigned UE from the RP link list can be verified as a CoMP UE . In the embodiments a CoMP UE can be a UE that has RP links to multiple nodes. In another example a CoMP UE can include at least two cells in the CoMP RP set.

If the selected next top ranked unassigned UE is not a CoMP UE and if CS are still available for the base sequence and the number of CS left e.g. CS available is greater than or equal to the number of unassigned UEs in the home cell of the selected next top ranked unassigned UE the selected next top ranked unassigned UE can be assigned the same base sequence and a different CS as the UE assigned the base sequence and the CS in the step. The remaining home UEs can be assigned the same base sequence and a different CS as the UE assigned the base sequence and the CS in the step in descending order of channel powers. If the selected next top ranked unassigned UE is not a CoMP UE and if the number of CS left e.g. CS available is less than the number of unassigned UEs in the home cell of the selected next top ranked unassigned UE the selected next top ranked unassigned UE can be assigned a new e.g. different base sequence and a CS .

If the selected next top ranked unassigned UE is a CoMP UE and if CS are still available for the base sequence and the number of CS left e.g. CS available is greater than or equal to the number of unassigned UEs in the CoMP set of the selected next top ranked unassigned UE the selected next top ranked unassigned UE can be assigned the same base sequence and a different CS as the UE assigned the base sequence and the CS in the step. The remaining unassigned UEs in the CoMP set can be assigned the same base sequence and a different CS as the UE assigned the base sequence and the CS following the steps through . If the selected next top ranked unassigned UE is a CoMP UE and if the number of CS left e.g. CS available is less than the number of unassigned UEs in the CoMP set of the selected next top ranked unassigned UE the selected next top ranked unassigned UE can be assigned a new e.g. different base sequence and a CS .

Once the base sequences and CS for the scheduled UE in the CoMP set are determined the scheduling and or assignment decisions may be transmitted semi statically to the UE via UE specific RRC signaling or dynamically in an uplink related downlink control information DCI carried by a physical downlink control channel PDCCH or via a combination of semi static RRC signaling and dynamic signaling through the PDCCH. The flow chart of can be modified and the lists e.g. RP link list or power gain lists can be reordered or a new list can be used based on other UL parameters to have different prioritizations and ensure reliable CE performance for the serving and cooperating links.

A virtual cell identifier VCID can be used to derive the DM RS base sequences instead of deriving the DM RS base sequence from the PCI N. The DM RS sequences can be included in an uplink channel e.g. a physical uplink shared channel PUSCH . In one example the DM RS can represent elements of a radio frame structure transmitted on the physical PHY layer in a uplink transmission between a node e.g. eNodeB and the wireless device e.g. UE using a generic long term evolution LTE frame structure as illustrated in . While an LTE frame structure is illustrated a frame structure for an IEEE 802.16 standard WiMax an IEEE 802.11 standard WiFi or another type of communication standard using SC FDMA or OFDMA may also be used.

Reference signals can be transmitted by SC FDMA symbols via resource elements in the resource blocks. Reference signals or pilot signals or tones can be a known signal used for various reasons such as to synchronize timing estimate a channel and or noise in the channel. Reference signals can be received and transmitted by wireless devices and nodes. Different types of reference signals RS can be used in a RB. For example in LTE systems uplink reference signal types can include a sounding reference signal SRS and a UE specific reference signal UE specific RS or UE RS or a demodulation reference signal DM RS .

The UE specific DM RS sequence assignment process described can provide a systematic method to assign base sequences and CS which can significantly improve the CE quality for cooperating links i.e. the channel from a UE in one cell to another cooperating cell within the CoMP set via better inter cell orthogonalization of DM RS transmissions or better area splitting gains e.g. in CoMP scenario as described previously while maintaining good CE performance for the serving links e.g. home links by ensuring orthogonality between the DM RS transmissions from MU MIMO UEs within a cell. For some examples a CoMP set can comprise of a large number of cells with MU MIMO. Assigning the same base sequence and different CS to all UE in the CoMP set may not be possible because a limited number of CS may be available which can used to achieve orthogonality between DM RS sequences. The UE specific DM RS sequence assignment described can improve reliable CE performance for both serving and cooperating links compared to an alternative DM RS sequence assignment process based on cell specific DM RS base sequence assignment or a single cell non CoMP DM RS sequence assignment process. For networks with a small number of cells and or a small number UEs in the CoMP set where assigning a same base sequence and different CS to UEs in a CoMP set may be feasible the UE specific DM RS sequence assignment described can automatically provide and efficient and or optimal DM RS sequence assignment for the network. In an example the UE specific DM RS sequence assignment described can provide assignment for both CoMP and non CoMP configurations.

Another example provides a method for user equipment UE specific assigning of demodulation reference signal DM RS sequences to support uplink UL coordinated multipoint CoMP as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The method includes the operation of sorting the plurality of UE scheduled for uplink transmission e.g. PUSCH transmission into a list according to a number of reception point RP links for each UE of a plurality of UE in a CoMP set as in block . The operation of assigning a DM RS base sequence and a cyclic shift CS to a top ranked UE from the list wherein the top ranked UE has a highest number of RP links follows as in block . The next operation of the method can be repeatedly assigning a different CS of the DM RS base sequence to a plurality of unassigned UE in a same cell as the top ranked UE when the different CS of the DM RS base sequence is available wherein each DM RS base sequence includes a plurality of CS as in block . The method can further include repeatedly assigning the different CS of the DM RS base sequence to a plurality of unassigned UE in a cooperatively served cell of the top ranked UE when the different CS of the DM RS base sequence is available for each unassigned UE in the cooperatively served cell of the top ranked UE wherein the cooperatively served cell of the top ranked UE is a cell within the CoMP set that has a scheduled UE that is cooperatively served by the home cell of the top ranked UE as in block .

In an example a demodulation reference signal DM RS sequence assignment device can be used to support uplink UL coordinated multipoint CoMP . The DM RS sequence assignment device can be figured to implement the operations of the method illustrated in .

When the different CS of the DM RS base sequence is not available for each UE in the cooperatively served cell of the top ranked UE the method can further include or the DM RS sequence assignment module can be further configured for assigning a different DM RS base sequence and a CS to a next top ranked UE from the list. The next top ranked UE can have a highest number of RP links from remaining UE on the list. When the different CS of the different DM RS base sequence is available the method can further include or the DM RS sequence assignment module can be further configured for repeatedly assigning a different cyclic shift CS of the different DM RS base sequence to a plurality of unassigned UE in a home cell of the next top ranked UE. When the different CS of the different DM RS base sequence is available the method can further include or the DM RS sequence assignment module can be further configured for repeatedly assigning a different CS of the different DM RS base sequence to the plurality of unassigned UE in the cooperatively served cell of the next top ranked UE. A cooperatively served cell of the next top ranked UE can be a cell within the CoMP set that has a scheduled UE that is cooperatively served by the home cell of the next top ranked UE.

In another example the operation of repeatedly assigning the different CS of the DM RS base sequence to the plurality of unassigned UE is based on a descending order of a long term channel power gain of each UE to a corresponding home cell of the UE or a substantially equivalent metric e.g. a reference signal received power RSRP of each UE to a home cell . The sorting module can be further configured to sort the plurality of unassigned UE based on a descending order of a long term channel power gain of each UE to a corresponding home cell of the UE or a substantially equivalent metric prior to the DM RS sequence assignment module repeatedly assigning the different CS of the new DM RS base sequence.

In another configuration the method can further include or the DM RS sequence assignment module can be further configured for reserving a set of N DM RS base sequences for the CoMP set. N can represent an integer that is at least greater than or equal to a maximum number of co scheduled UE in the CoMP set divided by a number of available CS for each DM RS base sequence. The set of N DM RS base sequences can include the DM RS base sequences generated by the physical cell identifier PCI of the cells within the CoMP set. The method can further include or the DM RS sequence assignment module or the sorting module can be further configured for removing a UE from the list when the DM RS base sequence and the CS are assigned to the UE.

In another example when the different CS of the DM RS base sequence is not available for each UE in a cooperatively serving cell of the top ranked UE the method can further include or the DM RS sequence assignment module can be further configured for assigning a different DM RS base sequence and a CS to a next top ranked UE from the list. The cooperatively serving cell of a UE can be a cell belonging to an CoMP RP set of the UE and can be different from the UE s home cell. The next top ranked UE can have a highest number of RP links from remaining UE on the list. When the different CS of the different DM RS base sequence is available the method can further include or the DM RS sequence assignment module can be further configured for repeatedly assigning a different cyclic shift CS of the different DM RS base sequence to a plurality of unassigned UE in a home cell of the next top ranked UE. When the different CS of the different DM RS base sequence is available the method can further include or the DM RS sequence assignment module can be further configured for repeatedly assigning a different CS of the different DM RS base sequence to the plurality of unassigned UE in the cooperatively served cell of the next top ranked UE. A cooperatively served cell of the next top ranked UE can be a cell within the CoMP set that has a scheduled UE that is cooperatively served by the home cell of the next top ranked UE. In another example when the different CS of the DM RS base sequence is available for each UE in the cooperatively serving cell of the top ranked UE the method can further include or the DM RS sequence assignment module can be further configured for repeatedly assigning the different CS of the DM RS base sequence to a plurality of unassigned UE in a cooperatively serving cell of the top ranked UE. The cooperatively serving cell of a UE is a cell belonging to the CoMP RP set of the UE and is different from the UE s home cell.

In another configuration the method can further include or the DM RS sequence assignment module can be further configured for selecting a next top ranked UE from the list. The next top ranked UE has a highest number of RP links from remaining UE on the list. When the different CS of the DM RS base sequence is available for each remaining unassigned UE in the CoMP set and when the next top ranked UE has at least two cells in the next top ranked UE s CoMP RP set the method can further include or the DM RS sequence assignment module can be further configured for repeatedly assigning the different CS of the DM RS base sequence to a plurality of remaining unassigned UE in a CoMP set. When the different CS of the DM RS base sequence is not available for each remaining unassigned UE in a CoMP set and when the next top ranked UE has at least two cells in the next top ranked UE s CoMP RP set the method can further include or the DM RS sequence assignment module can be further configured for assigning a different DM RS base sequence and a CS to the next top ranked UE. When the different CS of the different DM RS base sequence is available the method can further include or the DM RS sequence assignment module can be further configured for repeatedly assigning a different CS of the different DM RS base sequence to the plurality of remaining unassigned UE in a next top ranked UE s home cell a next top ranked UE s cooperatively served cell and then a next top ranked UE s cooperatively serving cells.

In another configuration the method can further include or the DM RS sequence assignment module can be further configured for selecting a next top ranked UE from the list. The next top ranked UE has a highest number of RP links from remaining UE on the list. When the different CS of the DM RS base sequence is available for each unassigned UE in the home cell and when the next top ranked UE has only one cell in the next top ranked UE s CoMP RP set or the next top ranked UE is not configured for UL CoMP the method can further include or the DM RS sequence assignment module can be further configured for repeatedly assigning the different CS of the DM RS base sequence to a plurality of unassigned UE in a home cell of the next top ranked UE. When the different CS of the DM RS base sequence is not available for each unassigned UE in the home cell of the next top ranked UE including when the next top ranked UE has only one cell in its CoMP RP set or is not configured for UL CoMP the method can further include or the DM RS sequence assignment module can be further configured for assigning a new DM RS base sequence and a CS to the next top ranked UE. When the different CS of the new DM RS base sequence is available the method can further include or the DM RS sequence assignment module can be further configured for repeatedly assigning a different CS of the new DM RS base sequence to the plurality of remaining unassigned UE in a next top ranked UE s home cell a next top ranked UE s cooperatively served cell and then a next top ranked UE s cooperatively serving cells.

In an example the DM RS base sequence can be determined or generated based on a virtual cell identifier VCID . The number of CS for each DM RS base sequence can be less than or equal to the number that is determined by a specific number of bits used to indicate the CS choice in an uplink related downlink control information DCI format. The method can further include or the DM RS sequence assignment device or node can be further configured for applying the DM RS base sequence and the CS in a physical uplink shared channel PUSCH for a specific UE in the CoMP set. The DM RS sequence assignment device can be included in an evolved packet core EPC a core network CN or a node. The node can include a base station BS a Node B NB an evolved Node B eNB a baseband unit BBU a remote radio head RRH a remote radio equipment RRE or a remote radio unit RRU . The BBU RHH RRE or RRU can be features of a centralized cooperative or cloud radio access network C RAN or CRAN . The node can include a macro node a low power node LPN a macro evolved Node B macro eNB a micro eNB a pico eNB a femto eNB or a home eNB HeNB .

In an example the transceiver module of the wireless device can receive a VCID and CS related information and determine the DM RS base sequence and a CS specified for the wireless device via RCC signaling MAC signaling DCI carried by the PDCCH or any combination of these signaling methods. The processing module can generate the DM RS sequence using the base sequence the CS and other related hopping pattern information. The transceiver module can transmit the PUSCH with the generated DM RS.

The wireless device can include a user equipment UE or a mobile station MS configured to connect to a wireless local area network WLAN a wireless personal area network WPAN or a wireless wide area network WWAN . The narrow bandwidth wireless device can include an antenna a touch sensitive display screen a speaker a microphone a graphics processor an application processor internal memory a non volatile memory port or combinations these components. The narrow bandwidth wireless device can belong to a class of a machine type communication MTC device.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The node and wireless device may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

