---

title: System and method for granting or denying access
abstract: A system and method for granting access to an electronic device is disclosed. The method may include (1) receiving, from an electronic device, a unique identifier that identifies the electronic device; (2) using at least one computer processor, determining if the unique identifier is on an approved list of approved devices; and (3) granting the electronic device access to a network if the unique identifier is on the approved list of approved devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08919645&OS=08919645&RS=08919645
owner: JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
number: 08919645
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120808
---
This patent application is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 966 287 filed Dec. 13 2010 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR GRANTING ACCESS TO A RESTRICTED ACCESS AREA USING AN APPROVED LIST which is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 942 211 filed Nov. 19 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 913 903 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR GRANTING ACCESS TO A RESTRICTED ACCESS AREA USING AN APPROVED LIST. The disclosures of both are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The present invention generally relates to controlling access to an area and more particularly to a system and method for granting access to a restricted access area using an access card and an approved list.

Access cards can be used to control access to certain locations such as a railway system a bus other transportation systems a building a secure area etc. For example U.S. Pat. No. 5 828 044 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety discloses the use of a non contacting type radio frequency recognizing credit card that may be used in an automated transit fare collection system. According to this patent the user of the card presents the card to a card terminal that activates the card by transmitting radio waves to the card. The activated card then transmits its card number to the card terminal which then transmits the card number to a terminal computer. The terminal computer compares the card number to a so called blacklist of cards. If the card number is not on the blacklist access is granted. If the card number is on the blacklist access is denied.

A system and method for granting access to a restricted access area using an approved list are disclosed. According to one embodiment the system may include a card reader that receives a card number from the access card a card verifier comprising an approved list of card numbers a card presented list of presented card numbers and a processor that compares the card number to the approved list and compares the card number to the card presented list and an access device. The access device grants access to the area if one of 1 the card number is on the approved list and 2 the card number is not on the presented list and the access device denies access to the area if the card number is not on the approved list and the card number is on the presented list.

The card reader may be an optical card reader a magnetic stripe reader or it may receive the card number by radio frequency waves.

The system may also include a central controller that receives data regarding access card presentation. The central controller may clear transactions with access cards and update the approved list and the card presented list.

A method for controlling access to an area using an access card is disclosed. According to one embodiment the method may include the steps of 1 receiving a card number for the access card 2 comparing the card number to an approved list of approved card numbers 3 granting access to the area if the card number is on the approved list 4 comparing the card number to a card presented list of presented card numbers 5 adding the card to the card presented list and the approved list and granting access to the area if the card number is not on the approved list and the card number is not on the card presented list and 6 denying access to the area if the card number is not on the approved list but is on the card presented list.

The card number may be received by optically reading the card number from the access card by reading a magnetic stripe on the access card or through radio frequency waves.

The method may also include the step of transmitting data regarding access card presentation to a central controller.

According to another embodiment a method for controlling access to a restricted area using an access card having a card number is disclosed. The method may include the steps of 1 receiving the card number for the access card at a point of entry for the restricted area 2 comparing the card number to an approved list of card numbers 3 if the card number is on the approved list a removing the card number from the approved list b granting access to the restricted area c receiving the card number for the access card at a point of exit for the restricted area and d adding the card number to the approved list and 4 denying access to the restricted area if the card number is not on the approved list. The card number is received by at least one of optically reading the card number from the access card by reading a magnetic stripe on the access card and by receiving radio frequency waves.

According to another embodiment a system for controlling access to a restricted area using an access card is disclosed. The system may include an access card having a card number an entry point card reader located at an entry point to the restricted area that receives the card number from the access card an exit point card reader located at an exit point to the restricted area that receives the card number from the access card a card verifier and an access device controls access to the restricted area. The card verifier may include a processor and a memory having an approved list of card numbers. The access device grants access to the restricted area if one of 1 the card number is on the approved list and 2 the card number is not on the presented list and the access device denies access to the area if the card number is not on the approved list and the card number is on the presented list.

A transaction associated with the access card may be based on at least one of a time in the restricted area and a distance between the entry point and the exit point.

According to another embodiment a system for controlling access to a restricted area using an access card is disclosed. The system may include an access card having a card number a card reader that receives the card number from the access card a card verifier and an access device. The card verifier may include a processor a memory having an approved list and a presented list a program that determines whether the card number is included in at least one of the approved list and the presented list and a central controller in communication with the card verifier. The access device grants access to the restricted area if one of 1 the card number is on the approved list and 2 the card number is not on the presented list and the access device denies access to the area if the card number is not on the approved list and the card number is on the presented list.

It is a technical advantage that a system and method for granting access to a restricted access area using an approved list are disclosed. It is another technical advantage that a card reader may be an optical card reader a magnetic stripe reader or it may receive the card number by radio frequency waves. It is yet another technical advantage that an approved list of card numbers may be used to grant access to a restricted area. It is still another advantage that a card presented list of card numbers may also be used to grant access to the restricted area if the card number is not on the approved list.

Several embodiments of the present invention and their advantages may be understood by referring to wherein like reference numerals refer to like elements.

Referring to a system for granting access to a restricted access area such as a transit system e.g. a bus rail or air system a controlled access highway e.g. a tollway the interior of a building e.g. the secure area of airport an office a parking garage etc. a ticketed event e.g. a concert a sporting event etc. etc. using an approved list according to one embodiment of the present invention is disclosed. In this embodiment system includes access card card reader card verifier access device and central controller .

Access card may be any type of device that is capable of carrying storing and or transmitting card identification information such as a card number. An access card may have the traditional credit card form factor or it may be larger or smaller or it may be a key fob token PDA cell phone or any other RF enabled device.

Although the phrase card number will be used herein it should be recognized that this phrase encompasses letters numbers symbols or any other card identification feature. In one embodiment card identification information may be provided mechanically e.g. by physically marking access card with the card identification information . For example access card may include an optically readable mark e.g. a bar code that is encoded with the card number.

In one embodiment the card number does not have to be unique to a particular card. In another embodiment the card number may be an alias.

In another embodiment card identification information may be provided electronically e.g. magnetically stored in memory etc. . For example access card may include a magnetic stripe that is encoded with the card number. As another example access card may include an integrated circuit and memory that stores the card number. Access card may be self powered or it may rely on an external source to generate power. Examples of such access cards are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 053 774 U.S. Pat. No. 5 103 079 U.S. Pat. No. 5 212 373 U.S. Pat. No. 5 337 063 U.S. Pat. No. 5 286 955 U.S. Pat. No. 5 449 894 U.S. Pat. No. 5 479 172 U.S. Pat. No. 5 484 997 U.S. Pat. No. 5 504 321 U.S. Pat. No. 5 569 903 U.S. Pat. No. 5 828 044 PCT Publication No. WO 91 14237 PCT Publication No. WO 94 22115 and UK Patent Application GB 2267626 the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference in their entireties.

Other mechanisms for providing access card with the card number may be used as necessary and or desired.

System further includes card reader . Card reader may be any device that is capable of reading or receiving the card number of access card . In one embodiment card reader may be an optical scanner. In another embodiment card reader may be a magnetic stripe reader. In still another embodiment card reader may use radio communication to receive the card number. For example card reader may radiate a radio wave that generates an induced electromotive force in access card which then causes access card to transmit its card number using radio waves. Alternatively access card may be self powered e.g. it may have a battery not shown and not require energy from an outside source.

Examples of card readers that use radio waves are disclosed in for example U.S. Pat. No. 3 438 489 U.S. Pat. No. 4 654 658 U.S. Pat. No. 4 899 036 U.S. Pat. No. 5 053 774 U.S. Pat. No. 5 286 955 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 828 044 the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference in their entireties.

Card reader may communicate with card verifier . Card reader may include processor programs and memory . In one embodiment card reader may communicate with card verifier by wires. In another embodiment card reader may communicate with card verifier wirelessly. Card verifier receives data e.g. card number from card reader and determines if access should be granted based on the card number read by card reader .

Card verifier may be co located with card reader . In another embodiment card verifier may be located remotely from card reader .

In one embodiment processor executes program in order to determine if the holder of access card should be granted access to the restricted access area. In one embodiment program compares access card s card number to approved list of card numbers stored in memory . Presented card list may be a database of card numbers. If access card s card number is on approved list card verifier may provide a control signal to access device that cause access device to grant access to the restricted access area.

If access card s card number is not on approved list in one embodiment access to the restricted access area is denied.

In one embodiment approved list may initially be pre populated with active card numbers that are in good standing. In another embodiment approved list may have card numbers manually added or deleted.

Access to the restricted access area may still be granted even if access card s card number is not on approved list . Specifically program may compare s card number to presented card list of card numbers. Presented card list may be a database of card numbers. If access card s card number is not on presented card list indicating that this is the first time that access card is being presented card verifier may also provide a control signal to access device that causes access device to grant access to the restricted access area.

If program determines that access card s card number is not on approved list and that access card s card number has been presented before card verifier may not send a control signal to access device to grant access to the restricted access area. In another embodiment card verifier may send a control signal to access device to deny access to the restricted access area.

Card verifier may also provide control signals to card reader so that a user may be provided feedback that the access card s card number has been read or not read accepted or rejected etc. Such feedback may be provided audibly e.g. recorded voice sounds etc. and or visually e.g. text messages lights etc. .

Access device may be any suitable mechanical device that grants access to the restricted access area. Suitable types of access devices include for example a gate a turnstile a door etc.

In one embodiment card verifier may communicate with a plurality of card readers and a plurality of access devices .

In one embodiment separate card verifiers may be provided at an entry point and at an exit point of a restricted access area. For example card verifier may be provided at an exit point of a transportation station e.g. a train station so that entry point and exit point data may be collected. In one embodiment this data may be used to calculate a fare based on the distance traveled time in transit system time in a restricted access area etc.

In one embodiment a single card verifier may perform the functions of an entry point card verifier and an exit point card verifier.

Card verifier may communicate with central controller . In one embodiment central controller may be located remotely from card verifier .

Central controller may also include network connections not shown . For example in one embodiment central controller may include direct and or indirect connections to credit card and or debit card networks to allow it to charge credit cards or debit accounts. Similarly central controller may include direct and or indirect connections to the Internet.

Card verifier may provide central controller with data regarding card numbers that are presented during a period. For example card verifier may transmit data regarding card number the time and date that card was presented whether access was granted location and any other data that may be necessary and or desired.

Central controller may also periodically provide information to card verifier . For example in one embodiment central controller may periodically transmit a replacement file for approved list and or card presented list . This may involve the transmission of a complete replacement file or an update to the existing file. In addition central controller may also provide updates to program as necessary and or desired.

Referring to a flowchart of a method according to one embodiment of the present invention is disclosed. In step an access card is issued to a cardholder. This may involve for example receiving cardholder personal information name address etc. billing information e.g. credit card or debit card information checking account information etc. or any information that may be necessary to send an invoice charge and or debit the cardholder for actual and or anticipated card usage. In one embodiment a separate account associated with the card may be created for the cardholder.

In one embodiment after it is successfully issued to a cardholder the card number may be added to the approved list.

In step the cardholder presents his or her access card that includes a card number to a card reader. In step the card reader receives the card number from the access card. In one embodiment this may be achieved by the user swiping magnetic stripe of the access card. In another embodiment the user may insert the access card into the card reader. In yet another embodiment the user may have the access card optically scanned. In still another embodiment the card reader may use radio frequency communication to energize an integrated circuit in the access card and cause the access card to transmit its card number by radio frequency waves.

If the card number is successfully received the cardholder may be so informed audibly or visually. If the card number was not successfully retrieved the card holder may be informed audibly or visually and requested to re present his or her card to the card reader.

In step the card number is compared to the card numbers on the approved list. If the card number is determined to be on the approved list in step the cardholder is granted access. This may involve opening a gate allowing a turnstile to turn opening a door etc.

In one embodiment a single access card may be used to provide multiple accesses. For example a single access card may be used to admit a group of persons. This may be achieved by for example presenting the same card to the card reader prior to each access. Access may be granted provided that the card remains on the approved list for each presentation.

In step the use of the card is reconciled. In one embodiment this may be done with each use of the card. In another embodiment this may be done periodically. Reconciliation will be discussed in greater detail with reference to below.

If the card number is determined to not be on the approved list in one embodiment in step the card number is compared to a list of cards that have been previously presented. If the card number is determined to having not been presented before in step in one embodiment the card number may be added to the approved list and or the card presented list and the cardholder is granted access in step . In another embodiment the card number may be marked for addition to the approved list and or the card presented list during reconciliation.

If the card number is determined to having been presented before in step the cardholder is denied access.

In another embodiment if in step the card number is not on the approved list in step entry is denied.

A method for reconciliation is provided. As discussed above reconciliation may take place each time a card is used or it may take place periodically. In addition periodic reconciliation may be performed in batches. For example data regarding all card numbers that were presented during the period in question may be reconciled at one time. As another example reconciliation may occur after a certain number of cards are presented.

Referring to in step data regarding the cards that were presented to card readers is collected. As discussed above this may be data regarding a single card presentation or it may be data regarding the presentation of multiple cards during a specific period. In one embodiment this data may be collected by a central controller and it may be transmitted as necessary and or desired. In one embodiment the data is transmitted at the end of the business day.

In step in one embodiment the card presented list and or the approved list are updated to include the card number.

In step the card numbers collected in step are settled. In one embodiment this may involve debiting a cardholder s account the value of a trip charging a cardholder s credit or debit card of record drawing down a balance debiting a checking account generating an invoice reducing authorized number of card presentations etc.

In one embodiment access cards that are on the approved list but are temporarily removed from that list indicating for example that the card was presented at an entry point but not at an exit point are added back to the approved list. A standard charge may be applied to these cards for prior to reconciliation.

In step if the transaction for a card number is cleared e.g. is processed successfully the associated account has a positive value etc. then in step no further action regarding the card number is necessary. The card number remains on both the approved list and the card presented list.

If in step a transaction for a card number does not clear e.g. it does not process successfully there are insufficient funds to cover the transaction the associated account has a negative value etc. in step the card is removed from the approved list.

In one embodiment the card may be immediately removed from the approved list. In another embodiment more than one attempt may be made to successfully clear a transaction before the card is removed from the approved list.

In one embodiment even though the card may be removed from the approved list attempts to successfully clear the transaction may continue.

In step the approved list may be updated to reflect changes in the status of the cards. For example cards that are reported lost or stolen may be removed from the approved list. In another embodiment cards that have expired may also be removed from the approved list. For example cards may be valid for a predetermined period such as 1 hour 24 hours a weekend etc. Following the expiration of this period the cards may be removed from the approved list. As another example cards may also be valid for a certain number of accesses to the restricted area. After the number of presentations is used the card may be removed from the approved list.

In another embodiment cards that were previously presented but not on the approved list may be added to the approved list. For example a card may be added to the approved list if its account status is brought current additional access time is added additional accesses are added etc.

In step the updated approved list and card presented list may be transmitted to the card verifiers. As discussed above this may involve sending complete replacement files updates to the files etc. to the card verifiers. The updated lists may be transmitted periodically e.g. every few days daily several times a day hourly etc. as new cards are issued on demand or in any other manner that is necessary and or desired.

Referring to an illustration of an embodiment of the invention is provided. In this embodiment an access card may be used to provide in and out access privileges to a restricted area such as for example a parking garage a concert a sporting event etc. In step the card is presented to an access card reader at an entry point and in step the card number is retrieved from the access card. These steps may be performed in a manner similar to that discussed with regard to steps and respectively.

In step the card number is compared to the approved list. If in step the card is on the approved list in step the card may be removed from the approved list. This removal may be performed so that the card cannot be used to grant access again until it is presented for exit discussed below .

In step access to the restricted area is granted. This may be performed similar to the manner in which step is performed.

In step the card may be presented to an access device at an exit and in step the card number is retrieved from the card. These steps may be performed to the manner in which steps and are performed respectively.

In one embodiment the access device that is used to retrieve the card number at the point of exit area may be the same as the access device that is provided at the point of entry. In another embodiment separate access devices may be provided at the point of entry and exit.

In step the card is added to the approved list. This permits the card to be used again to enter the restricted area if permitted.

In one embodiment cards may be added back to the approved list after a predetermined amount of time after they are removed even if they are not presented at an exit. For example a card may be used at an entry point but not read at an exit point. This may occur if there is a card read error at the exit point a power failure or if the card is not presented at the exit point e.g. the cardholder walked through an open gate . By adding the card back to the approved list the card may be used again.

In one embodiment the card may be added during clearing or it may be added at the beginning of the next business day.

Referring to an illustration of an embodiment of the present invention in the context of a parking device is provided. System includes parking device and access card . Parking device may be provided with card reader processor program and memory . Memory may include approved list and presented list .

Parking device may further include display sensor and interface . Display may be used to communicate the status of card to the user. For example display may indicate whether card was accepted rejected the amount of time remaining etc.

Sensor may be used to determine whether a vehicle not shown is parked at a designated space e.g. a parking space for parking device . In one embodiment sensor may be for example a weight sensor that is located under the designated space. In another embodiment sensor may be for example a sensor that senses the presence of an object such as a radio wave sensor e.g. microwave ultrasound infrared etc. .

Referring to a method for granting access using a system such as for example system is provided. In step the card is presented to an access card reader at an entry point and in step the card number is retrieved from the access card. These steps may be performed in a manner similar to that discussed with regard to steps and respectively.

In step the card number is compared to the approved list. If in step the card is on the approved list in step the user is informed that parking is permitted. In one embodiment this may be conveyed visually and or audibly.

If in step the card is not on the approved list in step the user is informed that parking is not permitted.

In one embodiment if the sensor determines that a vehicle is present and parking is unauthorized in step the authorities may be alerted. In one embodiment this may involve informing a management company a towing company parking enforcement etc.

Hereinafter general aspects of implementation of the systems and methods of the invention will be described.

The system of the invention or portions of the system of the invention may be in the form of a processing machine such as a general purpose computer for example. As used herein the term processing machine is to be understood to include at least one processor that uses at least one memory. The at least one memory stores a set of instructions. The instructions may be either permanently or temporarily stored in the memory or memories of the processing machine. The processor executes the instructions that are stored in the memory or memories in order to process data. The set of instructions may include various instructions that perform a particular task or tasks such as those tasks described above in the flowcharts. Such a set of instructions for performing a particular task may be characterized as a program software program or simply software.

As noted above the processing machine executes the instructions that are stored in the memory or memories to process data. This processing of data may be in response to commands by a user or users of the processing machine in response to previous processing in response to a request by another processing machine and or any other input for example.

As noted above the processing machine used to implement the invention may be a general purpose computer. However the processing machine described above may also utilize any of a wide variety of other technologies including a special purpose computer a computer system including for example a microcomputer mini computer or mainframe a programmed microprocessor a micro controller a peripheral integrated circuit element a CSIC Customer Specific Integrated Circuit or ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit or other integrated circuit a logic circuit a digital signal processor a programmable logic device such as a FPGA PLD PLA or PAL or any other device or arrangement of devices that is capable of implementing the steps of the processes of the invention.

The processing machine used to implement the invention may utilize a suitable operating system. Thus embodiments of the invention may include a processing machine running the Microsoft Windows Vista operating system the Microsoft Windows XP operating system the Microsoft Windows NT operating system the Windows 2000 operating system the Unix operating system the Linux operating system the Xenix operating system the IBM AIX operating system the Hewlett Packard UX operating system the Novell Netware operating system the Sun Microsystems Solaris operating system the OS 2 operating system the BeOS operating system the Macintosh operating system the Apache operating system an OpenStep operating system or another operating system or platform.

It is appreciated that in order to practice the method of the invention as described above it is not necessary that the processors and or the memories of the processing machine be physically located in the same geographical place. That is each of the processors and the memories used by the processing machine may be located in geographically distinct locations and connected so as to communicate in any suitable manner. Additionally it is appreciated that each of the processor and or the memory may be composed of different physical pieces of equipment. Accordingly it is not necessary that the processor be one single piece of equipment in one location and that the memory be another single piece of equipment in another location. That is it is contemplated that the processor may be two pieces of equipment in two different physical locations. The two distinct pieces of equipment may be connected in any suitable manner. Additionally the memory may include two or more portions of memory in two or more physical locations.

To explain further processing as described above is performed by various components and various memories. However it is appreciated that the processing performed by two distinct components as described above may in accordance with a further embodiment of the invention be performed by a single component. Further the processing performed by one distinct component as described above may be performed by two distinct components. In a similar manner the memory storage performed by two distinct memory portions as described above may in accordance with a further embodiment of the invention be performed by a single memory portion. Further the memory storage performed by one distinct memory portion as described above may be performed by two memory portions.

Further various technologies may be used to provide communication between the various processors and or memories as well as to allow the processors and or the memories of the invention to communicate with any other entity i.e. so as to obtain further instructions or to access and use remote memory stores for example. Such technologies used to provide such communication might include a network the Internet Intranet Extranet LAN an Ethernet wireless communication via cell tower or satellite or any client server system that provides communication for example. Such communications technologies may use any suitable protocol such as TCP IP UDP or OSI for example.

As described above a set of instructions may be used in the processing of the invention. The set of instructions may be in the form of a program or software. The software may be in the form of system software or application software for example. The software might also be in the form of a collection of separate programs a program module within a larger program or a portion of a program module for example The software used might also include modular programming in the form of object oriented programming. The software tells the processing machine what to do with the data being processed.

Further it is appreciated that the instructions or set of instructions used in the implementation and operation of the invention may be in a suitable form such that the processing machine may read the instructions. For example the instructions that form a program may be in the form of a suitable programming language which is converted to machine language or object code to allow the processor or processors to read the instructions. That is written lines of programming code or source code in a particular programming language are converted to machine language using a compiler assembler or interpreter. The machine language is binary coded machine instructions that are specific to a particular type of processing machine i.e. to a particular type of computer for example. The computer understands the machine language.

Any suitable programming language may be used in accordance with the various embodiments of the invention. Illustratively the programming language used may include assembly language Ada APL Basic C C COBOL dBase Forth Fortran Java Modula 2 Pascal Prolog REXX Visual Basic and or JavaScript for example. Further it is not necessary that a single type of instructions or single programming language be utilized in conjunction with the operation of the system and method of the invention. Rather any number of different programming languages may be utilized as is necessary and or desirable.

Also the instructions and or data used in the practice of the invention may utilize any compression or encryption technique or algorithm as may be desired. An encryption module might be used to encrypt data. Further files or other data may be decrypted using a suitable decryption module for example.

As described above the invention may illustratively be embodied in the form of a processing machine including a computer or computer system for example that includes at least one memory. It is to be appreciated that the set of instructions i.e. the software for example that enables the computer operating system to perform the operations described above may be contained on any of a wide variety of media or medium as desired. Further the data that is processed by the set of instructions might also be contained on any of a wide variety of media or medium. That is the particular medium i.e. the memory in the processing machine utilized to hold the set of instructions and or the data used in the invention may take on any of a variety of physical forms or transmissions for example. Illustratively the medium may be in the form of paper paper transparencies a compact disk a DVD an integrated circuit a hard disk a floppy disk an optical disk a magnetic tape a RAM a ROM a PROM a EPROM a wire a cable a fiber communications channel a satellite transmissions memory card SIM card or other remote transmission as well as any other medium or source of data that may be read by the processors of the invention.

Further the memory or memories used in the processing machine that implements the invention may be in any of a wide variety of forms to allow the memory to hold instructions data or other information as is desired. Thus the memory might be in the form of a database to hold data. The database might use any desired arrangement of files such as a flat file arrangement or a relational database arrangement for example.

In the system and method of the invention a variety of user interfaces may be utilized to allow a user to interface with the processing machine or machines that are used to implement the invention. As used herein a user interface includes any hardware software or combination of hardware and software used by the processing machine that allows a user to interact with the processing machine. A user interface may be in the form of a dialogue screen for example. A user interface may also include any of a mouse touch screen keyboard voice reader voice recognizer dialogue screen menu box list checkbox toggle switch a pushbutton or any other device that allows a user to receive information regarding the operation of the processing machine as it processes a set of instructions and or provide the processing machine with information. Accordingly the user interface is any device that provides communication between a user and a processing machine. The information provided by the user to the processing machine through the user interface may be in the form of a command a selection of data or some other input for example.

As discussed above a user interface is utilized by the processing machine that performs a set of instructions such that the processing machine processes data for a user. The user interface is typically used by the processing machine for interacting with a user either to convey information or receive information from the user. However it should be appreciated that in accordance with some embodiments of the system and method of the invention it is not necessary that a human user actually interact with a user interface used by the processing machine of the invention. Rather it is also contemplated that the user interface of the invention might interact i.e. convey and receive information with another processing machine rather than a human user. Accordingly the other processing machine might be characterized as a user. Further it is contemplated that a user interface utilized in the system and method of the invention may interact partially with another processing machine or processing machines while also interacting partially with a human user.

It will be readily understood by those persons skilled in the art that the present invention is susceptible to broad utility and application. Many embodiments and adaptations of the present invention other than those herein described as well as many variations modifications and equivalent arrangements will be apparent from or reasonably suggested by the present invention and foregoing description thereof without departing from the substance or scope of the invention.

Accordingly while the present invention has been described here in detail in relation to its exemplary embodiments it is to be understood that this disclosure is only illustrative and exemplary of the present invention and is made to provide an enabling disclosure of the invention. Accordingly the foregoing disclosure is not intended to be construed or to limit the present invention or otherwise to exclude any other such embodiments adaptations variations modifications or equivalent arrangements.

