---

title: Enhanced alert messaging
abstract: An enhanced alerts server may receive alert-related and user-related information from various sources. The server may then generate various types of alerts, including alerts related to weather, crime, product recalls, etc. The server may then apply various predefined rules for associating different types of alerts with a given end user. In deciding on which alerts are transmitted to which users, the enhanced alerts server may also consider any feedback provided by the users regarding previously delivered alerts. An additional aspect of the implementation relates to an easy-to-understand, color-coded display associated with a device through which users may access received alerts.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09299241&OS=09299241&RS=09299241
owner: Allstate Insurance Company
number: 09299241
owner_city: Northbrook
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120207
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 440 147 filed Feb. 7 2011 and entitled Enhanced Alert Messaging the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Aspects of the disclosure generally relate to an enhanced alerts platform through which personalized messages may be sent to various entities. In particular aspects of the disclosure allow for the messages to be personalized based on various factors including information already known about the entities and feedback received from the entities.

Individuals may desire to be alerted for a variety of reasons in their everyday lives. Some alerts may notify individuals of emergencies while other types of alerts may be less time sensitive. For instance airlines often alert passengers of flight delays ticket confirmations and other status updates via email or telephone messages. Weather services provide alerts regarding weather systems such as rain showers hurricanes tornadoes and snow storms via the television telephone and the internet.

However conventional alert systems are narrowly focused for specific alerting purposes and or modalities. An alerting system operated by an airline generally only transmits messages regarding flight information whereas a weather alerting system only reports weather related disturbances. Given that alerts may originate from different alerting systems each possessing their own alerting protocol individuals may be overwhelmed when attempting to determine which alerts are of interest or highly relevant. Individuals may receive unwanted alerts from various sources potentially causing the user to overlook an alert of interest highly relevant or urgent to the individual thereby increasing the levels of user frustration and potentially preventing an individual from an opportunity to avert or take mitigation action that is based on an alert.

In light of the foregoing background the following presents a simplified summary of the present disclosure in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the invention. This summary is not an extensive overview of the invention. It is not intended to identify key or critical elements of the invention or to delineate the scope of the invention. The following summary merely presents some concepts of the invention in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description provided below.

Aspects of the disclosure address at least the issues mentioned above by disclosing methods computer readable media and apparatuses for alerting individuals groups organizations and other entities for various purposes. An enhanced alerts server may transmit personalized messages to user terminals based on a user profile.

With another aspect of the disclosure entities may provide feedback to the alerts server in order for the system to further target appropriate alerts to the entities.

Aspects of the disclosure may be provided in at least one computer readable medium having computer executable instructions that when executed by at least one processor cause a computer user terminal or other apparatus to at least perform one or more of the processes described herein.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. The Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

As discussed above current techniques for transmitting alert messages are limited. In accordance with various aspects of the disclosure methods computer readable media and apparatuses are disclosed in which personalized alerts may be transmitted to various entities via an enhanced alerts server. In certain aspects the enhanced alerts server may be an online system and or mobile device application for customers of an organization that may deliver safety information so that the customers are able to avoid danger and keep their family home and vehicles protected. As the organization may already offer products services to the end users of the enhanced alerts server the organization may be able to use information about the end users stored in the organization s databases to personalize the messages and infer what the user s alert preferences may be. The organization may also partner with other organizations e.g. credit bureaus government offices etc. to supplement any knowledge about end users. Further still the users themselves may provide feedback to the enhanced alerts server regarding their preferences for different types of alerts. This feedback may be used by the enhanced alerts server in providing follow on alerts.

I O may include a microphone keypad touch screen and or stylus through which a user of enhanced alerts server may provide input and may also include one or more of a speaker for providing audio output and a video display device for providing textual audiovisual and or graphical output. Software may be stored within memory and or storage to provide instructions to processor for enabling device to perform various functions. For example memory may store software used by the device such as an operating system application programs and an associated database . Processor and its associated components may allow the device to run a series of computer readable instructions to determine if a given alert should be transmitted to a user. In addition processor may assign different priorities to the alerts based on feedback received from a user.

The server may operate in a networked environment supporting connections to one or more remote computers such as terminals and . The terminals and may be personal computers or servers that include many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing device . Also terminal and or may be data stores for storing information related to various users of enhanced alerts server . The network connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. When used in a LAN networking environment the server is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the server may include a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are illustrative and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used. The existence of any of various well known protocols such as TCP IP Ethernet FTP HTTP and the like is presumed.

Additionally an application program used by the enhanced alerts server according to an illustrative embodiment of the disclosure may include computer executable instructions for invoking functionality related to transmitting appropriate alerts messages to various end users.

Enhanced alerts server and or terminals or may also be mobile terminals including various other components such as a battery speaker and antennas not shown .

The disclosure is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the disclosure include but are not limited to personal computers smart phones server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

The disclosure may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The disclosure may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer readable storage media including non transitory memory storage devices such as a hard disk random access memory RAM and read only memory ROM .

Referring to a first system for implementing methods according to the present disclosure is shown. As illustrated system may include one or more workstations servers . Workstations may be local or remote and are connected by one or more communications links to computer network that is linked via communications links to enhanced alerts server . In certain embodiments workstations may run different algorithms used by server for transmitting a particular alert to an end user or in other embodiments workstations may be different points at which the enhanced alerts server may be accessed by end users. In system enhanced alerts server may be any suitable server processor computer or data processing device or combination of the same.

Computer network may be any suitable computer network including the Internet an intranet a wide area network WAN a local area network LAN a wireless network a digital subscriber line DSL network a frame relay network an asynchronous transfer mode ATM network a virtual private network VPN or any combination of any of the same. Communications links and may be any communications links suitable for communicating between workstations and server such as network links dial up links wireless links hard wired links etc.

After applying algorithms that are a part of server and the resultant alerts data may be stored in personalized alerts database . Personalized alerts aggregation and distribution server may receive alerts from database for aggregation and distribution to the appropriate end users. Personalized alerts aggregation and distribution server may periodically send status updates on all user specified alert categories to update the color of their displays. The alert may also include data to update all of the other categories of interest.

It should be noted that the various databases engines and modules depicted in may each individually possesses all or some of the components of enhanced alerts server .

The processes described herein may be implemented by one or more of the components in and or other components including other computing devices.

The enhanced alerts server may bundle important information from news outlets law enforcement agencies e.g. amber alerts crime alerts terror threat levels etc. the National Weather Service commercial entities and national recall organizations and deliver the information to a user device e.g. computer mobile phone personal digital assistant PDA etc. The alerts server may thus allow users to receive timely weather traffic crime and recall alerts.

In some aspects users may set preferences for the categories of information that they wish to receive. For each category selected users may also choose to receive alerts via various communication modalities including email and or text messaging. Alert messages may be related to various topics including severe weather warnings neighborhood crime tips about the most dangerous intersections near a given user and newsworthy product recalls. A user may also choose preferences for how much or how little of the information should be transmitted within a given category.

In certain aspects the alert messages may help users live safely and empower them to be safe. The tone of the messages may be one of caring and empathy in some instances. In addition the alert messages provide the recipient with information on how to protect him or herself. The alert messages may empower users to quickly connect with family associates or other resources and avoid unnecessary risk exposure.

In certain aspects alerts transmitted by the enhanced alerts server may range from public social and educational alerts to alerts that are personal and urgent. Personal and urgent alerts may contain personal and or confidential information which may cause a user to engage with a third party generally outside of personal contacts . Examples of these types of alerts include those related to product recalls credit rating declines identity theft incidents and information related to insurance claims. Social alerts may contain socially interesting information that users may not care to share with their family and or their social network. Examples of social alerts include newsletters featuring information about all services and alerts information on crime and traffic weather related data and or information on social networking incidents and or teen driving incidents. Using the same examples educational alerts may include information on product recalls credit rating declines newsletters featuring information about all services and alerts and information on crime and traffic. Similarly urgent alerts may contain more time sensitive information and may include information on identity theft incidents information related to insurance claims weather related data and or information on social networking incidents and or teen driving incidents.

Each of the alerts may be offered free of charge or for a fee. In other aspects the alerts may be provided free of charge initially and may be offered for a fee after some time if the alerts are viewed favorably by an end user e.g. freemium content . In some aspects the more urgent and or personalized alerts may be offered for a fee while other alerts may be offered free of charge.

In yet other aspects some of the alerts provided by the enhanced alerts server may be sponsored by a third party e.g. a company organization etc. . The third party may have an interest in promoting the alert. As an example an auto body and repair shop may be interested in promoting alerts that deal with weather that may damage automobiles and therefore may pay the entity e.g. organization group individual etc. managing the enhanced alerts server part or all of the fees associated with transmitting the alert. In addition a retail store may be interested in sponsoring alerts related to coupons sales etc. at their location. In other aspects the entity managing the enhanced alerts server may initiate a bidding process for allowing a third party entity to sponsor a given alert. In yet other embodiments the entity managing the enhanced alerts server e.g. an insurance company may sponsor an alert to help reduce the number and value of claims associated with the information in the alert. For example for a weather related alert that may damage property an insurance company may be willing to sponsor the alert to reduce the amount and number of claims that may result from any inclement weather. Ultimately when commercial entities are sponsoring a particular alert the content of the alert may strike a balance between an empathetic message and the commercial drivers for sponsorship e.g. advertising reach sponsorship cost added revenue potential etc. 

In other aspects if an insurance company is managing the enhanced alerts server the insurance company may offer discounts for insurance premiums to users that subscribe to the alerts service. In some instances the insurance company may offer discounts on insurance premiums if user of the enhanced alerts server takes some sort of risk mitigating action as a result of receiving the alert message. For instance if the user moves a car associated with a weather related alert from an unprotected area to a protected area the insurance company may offer a discount to the user on an automobile insurance policy that the user may possess with the insurance company for taking this concrete risk mitigating action. Further the insurance company may automatically verify that the user has completed the risk reducing action through electronic devices such as via telematics devices useful for communicating data from one location to another. For example a user s car may be associated with a GPS device that communicates geographic location data and a time stamp to the enhanced alerts server informing that the user s car was moved from an outdoor parking lot to the user s garage after receiving the alert and before a hail storm.

Alerts may also be offered through various communication methodologies including email internet voice text and or mobile applications.

Each type of alert may also be useful to users for different reasons. For instance if an organization such as an insurance company is offering the alert service information about product recalls may help the insurance company reduce the number and amount of claims related to the recall. Also information about identity thefts and insurance claims may also be provided at a fee which would allow the organization offering these alerts to benefit from an additional revenue stream. Further newsletters with information about all services and alerts provided by the enhanced alerts server including local statistics on crime and traffic may ensure that a user has the opportunity to continually update preferences and register their feedback. Finally information relevant to a community such as local weather incidents social networking incidents and or poor teen driving incidents may allow users to engage family members and or their social network easily and quickly.

As an example of how social networking incidents may be transmitted to an end user consider a scenario in which a child of a user of the enhanced alerts server is a member of various social networking websites. If the child becomes friends with a suspicious person e.g. a person outside of the child s age group a person that does not share any mutual friends with the child etc. through a social networking website the raw alerts database may be populated with details of the incident. Then based on preferences and past feedback the parent may receive an alert of the situation with a level of priority relevant for that parent. Also the enhanced alerts server may monitor public dialogues such as those on social networking sites to determine whether the child is being harassed or in some other type of danger. In this situation an alert with the proper severity and or anticipated accuracy may be sent to the parent. To assess the severity the enhanced alerts server may monitor for certain types of inappropriate language e.g. violent harassing etc. and acronyms addressed to and or used by the monitored user e.g. child relative friend . Certain words may suggest violence physical or emotional harassment or sexual activity may be assessed as the most severe to trigger sending of an alert. Other keywords may be deemed less harmful and may trigger alerts based on user preferences.

In other aspects of the disclosure the enhanced alerts server may include an application programming interface API to an organization that monitors content provided through a social networking site.

This implementation may be provided by a single organization or may be the result of a partnership among several different organizations. If multiple organizations are involved one of the organizations may manage the enhanced alerts server and coordinate how each type of alert is transmitted to users. For instance in some embodiments a different organization may transmit each type e.g. weather related crime related SMS email etc. of alert. In other embodiments a single organization may transmit all types of alerts whereas in yet other embodiments the organization managing the enhanced alerts server may also transmit the alerts to end users. In each case the organization managing the enhanced alerts server may retain final editorial and approval control over any alert sent through the enhanced alerts server .

As stated earlier this implementation may empower the user to control preferences and allow them to give feedback on each message. By allowing users to give feedback this platform may continually be optimized at delivering targeted alert messages around users preferences. The enhanced alerts server may personalize and target messages across both the content of the message and the delivery channel e.g. email text voicemail etc. . The messages may have a tone of empathy and may protect the user s identity.

Examples of specific messages that may be transmitted via the enhanced alerts server include protect yourself by leaving your lights on and ensure that your doors are locked at this time of year there has been more crime in your area please double check your sump pump there is a storm coming through and your area is expecting 5 inches of rain today talk to your local car dealer about a product recall it looks like your car is affected text where you are going and get the best driving directions and find the best way to avoid traffic your child has friended a 37 year old male who has no mutual friends with any of your child s friends on a social networking website your credit score looks like it has dropped could you have an identity theft problem and talk with your kids about their driving according to our records your kids have sustained speeds of over 80 miles per hour for 50 minutes on Tuesday at 7 pm. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that these alerts are purely exemplary and may be varied to convey alternative and or similar alerts.

The enhanced alerts server may consider various inputs prior to transmitting an alert message including an alert type e.g. weather related crime related product recall related etc. an alert subtype e.g. a rain snow or hail related subtype within the weather category a communication protocol used to transmit the alert e.g. voice text email mobile application based etc. an alert severity and or an anticipated alert accuracy. The alert severity may relate to how time sensitive and or important the alert may be to an end user whereas an alert accuracy may relate to how relevant the alert may be to the end user. Both the alert severity and the alert accuracy may be computed by a processor associated with the enhanced alerts server based on predefined rules. Some of the rules may take into account any feedback received directly from a user. For instance the enhanced alerts server may designate a low severity and or anticipated alert accuracy for a weather related alert being sent to a user that has previously rated such alerts to be of low importance. In another embodiment enhanced alerts server may designate an alert with severity level to a specific user that is based on historical data and social knowledge and or other data that is available and known to the server about the specific user. In one embodiment the enhanced alerts server may override the feedback delivered by the user in earlier communication in an effort to deliver an objective and extremely urgent alert to the user. In other aspects the enhanced alerts server may choose a different communication protocol e.g. email versus SMS based on user feedback on a particular alert or alert type. In this way the enhanced alerts server personalizes the communication channel attaches the severity associated with the alert and further prioritizes the order of the alert within the severity.

In certain aspects the alert severity may be determined by enhanced alerts server through a scoring system that may rate alerts based on how severe the alert may be. For instance the system may set thresholds for each category where alert data that scores 7 or higher on a scale of 1 10 is severe red 4 6 is of moderate severity yellow and 1 3 is low severity green . User feedback may be used to adjust the thresholds for each category. The alert accuracy may relate to how useful relevant the alert may be to a given end user. An initial anticipated alert accuracy may be set by enhanced alerts server and may also be modified based on feedback provided by the user.

In deciding whether to send a given alert to a particular end user and in deciding the characteristics of any transmitted alert e.g. communication modality alert severity alert priority anticipated accuracy etc. the enhanced alerts server may take into account all information that is known about the end user and or about users who are similar to the end user e.g. by being part of the user s social network by being of similar age gender etc. . In certain aspects alert related recommendations may be provided for similarly situated people e.g. other parents with teenage daughters in your area monitored these social networking sites etc. In addition to considering the above mentioned inputs regarding the characteristics of the alert the enhanced alerts server may also consider the identity of the recipient any user selected alert preferences the nature of the user s previous interactions with the enhanced alerts server and any other user information that may be relevant. User selected preferences may include categories types subtypes of alerts and the communication modality selected by the user. The nature of the user s previous interactions with the enhanced alerts server evaluated include whether the user has indicated similar alerts to be helpful and or unhelpful and the rate at which the user has opened similar alerts e.g. email messages . As an example an alert category may be weather an alert type within the weather category may be precipitation and an alert subtype within the precipitation type may be snow. As mentioned before the enhanced alerts server may also consider information about the user either directly from products services offered to the user or from third party sources. Information that may be used in deciding whether to transmit a given alert and in deciding other associated characteristics include the vehicle identification number VIN of any vehicles owned by the user the home office address of the user email current location e.g. based on the geocode of a handset or other user device media access control MAC address etc. emergency contact list associated with the user and or an agent call center previously used by the user.

Once the enhanced alerts server chooses a particular communication protocol for delivering an alert the server may assign the alert a severity priority that may determine the order that the alert is presented to the user. Various schemes may be chosen for assigning a severity priority to a given alert message including avatar type of graphical representation a color scheme such as red yellow and or green and optional blinking of the aforementioned avatars or color schemes that can further be configured to blink at different rates and frequencies. In this example an alert with a red color designation may have high severity priority an alert with a yellow color designation may have medium severity priority and an alert with a green color designation may have low severity priority. Here the server may receive alert data specifying a severity and server may adjust the severity based on feedback data. For instance tornadoes in the area of a given user may be assigned a red severity rain showers may be assigned a yellow severity and sunshine may be given a green severity. In this instance user feedback such as information related to living in low lying areas may adjust rain showers to a red severity. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize that this example is one of many possible priority severity designation schemes e.g. numbers stars etc. that may be used with the enhanced alerts server. If colors are used to designate the anticipated accuracy relevancy of the alert and or the severity of the alert the colors may be presented in an easy to understand manner on a display associated with a user device. For instance the user may be able to look at the display and immediately discern whether any urgent alerts have been transmitted by the enhanced alerts server based on the colors presented on the display screen. If the user wishes to find out more information about one of the colors displayed the user may select the color and be transferred to another display screen with further information such as information on specific burglaries in a neighborhood local weather systems etc. In other aspects an initial severity associated with an alert may be set by the source of the information in the alert and later modified by the enhanced alerts server .

As an example consider a scenario where a user profile associated with a user indicates that alerts related to a snow storms and hail are deemed very helpful and those related to rain showers are not very helpful. Suppose that the enhanced alerts server receives information from a weather station that weather local to the area in which the user lives on a given day calls for a major snowstorm. In this example the enhanced alerts server may match the user preferences with the weather alert. Because the feedback in this case indicates that alerts about snowstorms are considered useful the enhanced alerts server may distribute the alert to a mobile phone e.g. text message owned by the user. In this example the snow storm alert may appear on the mobile phone display as a red bar blinking every 1 2 seconds so that the user may realize that this alert is an important one.

Now suppose that a few weeks later the weather in the area local to the same user calls for rain showers. Because the user has previously indicated that alerts about rain showers are not considered important enhanced alerts server may take one of several possible actions. As a first possibility the enhanced alerts server may decide not to transmit the alert to the user given the prior feedback. Alternatively the enhanced alerts server may decide to send the alert as a low priority email message. In this case the alert may appear as a yellow bar on a laptop screen used by the user.

Now suppose that the enhanced alerts server receives information regarding the child of the user discussed above in relation to the weather alerts. Suppose that this information relates to suspicious activity on the child s FACEBOOK account. Suppose also that the user s profile does not have an indication on how important these types of alerts are to the user. Because the enhanced alerts server does not have this information the server may use its processor and determine that this alert type should be sent to the user. This determination may be based on several factors in this case assume that the determination was based on the fact that the user profile indicates that the user is a single parent with two young children. While this information does not conclusively indicate that the user would like to receive alerts related to a child s social network the enhanced alerts server may determine that the user profile matches the profile of someone who would benefit from this information. Therefore server may transmit this alert as a high priority alert to the user s mobile phone. The alert may be displayed on the mobile phone with a social network avatar e.g. a cartoon of a mother with her child etc. that blinks every 2 seconds.

An example of aspects involves a computer assisted method comprising receiving a first set of data from a plurality of alert related data sources generating a plurality of alerts from the first set of data storing the plurality of alerts into a datastore associated with the computer receiving a second set of data about a plurality of users storing the second set of data into the datastore associated with the computer applying by a processor associated with the computer an algorithm comprising a plurality of predefined rules for associating at least one of the plurality of alerts with at least one of the plurality of users and for generating at least one personalized alert for the at least one of the plurality of users wherein at least one of the predefined rules relate to feedback provided by the at least one of the plurality of users regarding the plurality of alerts storing the at least one personalized alert in the datastore associated with the computer and transmitting the at least one personalized alert to the at least one of the plurality of users.

A further example of aspects involves an apparatus comprising a processor and a memory configured to store computer readable instructions that when executed by the processor cause the processor to perform a method comprising receiving a first set of data from a plurality of alert related data sources transforming and modifying a plurality of alerts from the first set of data storing the plurality of alerts into a datastore receiving a second set of data about a plurality of users storing the second set of data into the datastore applying an algorithm comprising a plurality of predefined rules for associating at least one of the plurality of alerts with at least one of the plurality of users and for generating at least one personalized alert for the at least one of the plurality of users wherein at least one of the predefined rules relate to feedback provided by the at least one of the plurality of users regarding the plurality of alerts storing the at least one personalized alert in the datastore and transmitting the at least one personalized alert to the at least one of the plurality of users.

A further example of aspects involves a computer readable storage medium having computer executable program instructions stored thereon that when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform steps comprising receiving a first set of data from a plurality of alert related data sources transforming and modifying a plurality of alerts from the first set of data storing the plurality of alerts into a datastore receiving a second set of data about a plurality of users storing the second set of data into the datastore applying an algorithm comprising a plurality of predefined rules for associating at least one of the plurality of alerts with at least one of the plurality of users and for generating at least one personalized alert for the at least one of the plurality of users wherein at least one of the predefined rules relate to feedback provided by the at least one of the plurality of users regarding the plurality of alerts storing the at least one personalized alert in the datastore and transmitting the at least one personalized alert to the at least one of the plurality of users.

A further example of aspects involves a method comprising generating using a processor associated with an enhanced alerts server a user profile identifying an alert category and feedback data indicating a first alert type within the alert category for which alerts can be sent and a second alert type within the alert category for which alerts are prevented from being sent receiving at the enhanced alerts server alert data from at least one information source generating using the processor an alert message including the alert data in response to determining that the alert data contains information for the alert category that the alert data is of the first alert type and that the alert data corresponds to at least one of 1 a geographic location associated with the user profile or mobile phone geo location and 2 social information on a particular person and causing transmission to a user device of the alert message including the alert data in response to the determining.

Further examples of aspects involve a an alert message including information on multiple alert categories including weather social networks and crime.

Further examples of aspects involve b information including assigning a color for each alert category and instructing the user device to display the color.

Further examples of aspects involve c information including assigning an avatar for each alert category and instructing the user device to display the avatar.

Further examples of aspects involve d information including assigning a blink frequency for each alert category and instructing the user device to assign the blink frequency to a displayed alert color or alert avatar.

Further examples of aspects involve e assigning an initial score to the alert data using a processor.

Further examples of aspects involve f adjusting the initial score upward or downward based on user feedback on previous similar alerts using the processor.

Further examples of aspects involve g assigning predefined or user configurable actions that are related to the alert data using the processor.

Further examples of aspects involve i comparing the adjusted score to a threshold to determine whether to cause transmission of the alert message using the processor.

Further examples of aspects involve j estimating an alert risk severity in order to determine whether to override a user specified preference and cause transmission of the alert message using the processor.

A further example of aspects involves a method comprising receiving at a user device a first alert message corresponding to a first alert category a first alert type with the first alert category and an alert priority from a server wherein the first alert category is chosen from the group consisting of 1 identity theft 2 product recalls 3 social networks and 4 a location of a user associated with the user device displaying the first alert message on a display associated with the user device transmitting feedback back to the server wherein the feedback indicates how helpful the first alert message was to the user and receiving a second alert message at the user device wherein the second alert message takes into account the feedback provided by the user to modify the alert priority of the second alert message.

Further examples of aspects involve a a first alert message including information on multiple alert categories related to the user.

Further examples of aspects involve b information including assigning a color for each alert category and instructing the display to display the color.

Further examples of aspects involve c information including assigning an avatar for each alert category and instructing the display to display the avatar.

Further examples of aspects involve d information including assigning a predetermined blink frequency for each alert category based on an alert severity and instructing the display to intermittently display a color or avatar at the predetermined blink frequency.

Further examples of aspects involve e receiving a selection from the user to display more information related to one of the displayed colors.

Aspects of the invention have been described in terms of illustrative embodiments thereof. Numerous other embodiments modifications and variations within the scope and spirit of the appended claims will occur to persons of ordinary skill in the art from a review of this disclosure. For example one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the steps discussed herein may be performed in other than the recited order and that one or more steps may be optional in accordance with aspects of the invention.

