---

title: System and method for monitoring social network conversations
abstract: A method, computer program product, and computer system for providing, using a processor of a computer, at least a portion of text that includes a link for use by a website. A plurality of posts associated with an online social network is monitored using the processor of the computer to determine whether the link is present in at least one post of the plurality of posts. A first user of the online social network that has the link included in the at least one post is identified using the processor of the computer, where the at least one post of the first user identifies a second user of the online social network. Information associated with the first user is recorded in a data store using the processor of the computer in response to identifying that the first user has the link posted in the at least one post.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09171337&OS=09171337&RS=09171337
owner: aPebble, LLC
number: 09171337
owner_city: Boston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120210
---
This disclosure relates to monitoring systems and methods and more particularly to monitoring social network systems and methods.

Online social networking sites such as LinkedIn Facebook Twitter MySpace etc. are collectively used by a vast number of users throughout the world. These sites enable their users to for example maintain relationships promote businesses as well as promote their opinions on various topics.

One such topic may involve politics. For example some users of social networking sites may host discussions or comment on numerous political causes as well as individual politicians themselves. Because such discussions and comments may be seen by certain members of the social networking site and or by other members of the public information may be readily disseminated to the politically active and enabling both sides of the issue to be heard.

However the extent of political awareness and involvement may vary greatly between individual users. For example some users may post and comment about multiple political issues while other users may have an opinion on the topic but may not have the time or desire to put forth the effort to follow and participate in the discussion. As such there remains a need for a more convenient way to encourage more users to follow and contribute to the political discourse.

In one implementation a method for conversation monitoring performed by one or more computing devices comprises providing using a processor of a computer at least a portion of text that includes a link for use by a website. A plurality of posts associated with a second website is monitored using the processor of the computer to determine whether the link is present in at least one post of the plurality of posts. A first user of the second website that has the link included in the at least one post is identified using the processor of the computer. Information associated with the first user is recorded in a data store using the processor of the computer in response to identifying that the first user has the link posted in the at least one post.

One or more of the following features may be included. Identifying the first user may include monitoring an associated second website profile of the first user. An associated second website profile of a second user identified by the at least one post of the first user may be monitored using the processor of the computer. A posting of the second user responding to the at least one post of the first user may be identified at the computer. Identifying the posting of the second user responding to the at least one post of the first user may include receiving at the computer the posting of the second user responding to the at least one post of the first user. The at least one post of the first user and the posting of the second user responding to the at least one post of the first user may be organized using the processor of the computer. The organized at least one post of the first user and the posting of the second user responding to the at least one post of the first user may be provided for display by the website using the processor of the computer. The link may be a shortened Uniform Resource Locator URL .

In another implementation a computer program product resides on a computer readable medium that has a plurality of instructions stored on it. When executed by a processor of a computer the instructions cause the processor to perform operations comprising providing using the processor of the computer at least a portion of text that includes a link for use by a website. A plurality of posts associated with a second website is monitored using the processor of the computer to determine whether the link is present in at least one post of the plurality of posts. A first user of the second website that has the link included in the at least one post is identified using the processor of the computer. Information associated with the first user is recorded in a data store using the processor of the computer in response to identifying that the first user has the link posted in the at least one post.

One or more of the following features may be included. Identifying the first user may include monitoring an associated second website profile of the first user. An associated second website profile of a second user identified by the at least one post of the first user may be monitored using the processor of the computer. A posting of the second user responding to the at least one post of the first user may be identified at the computer. Identifying the posting of the second user responding to the at least one post of the first user may include receiving at the computer the posting of the second user responding to the at least one post of the first user. The at least one post of the first user and the posting of the second user responding to the at least one post of the first user may be organized using the processor of the computer. The organized at least one post of the first user and the posting of the second user responding to the at least one post of the first user may be provided for display by the website using the processor of the computer. The link may be a shortened Uniform Resource Locator URL .

In another implementation a computing system includes a processor of a computer and memory configured to perform operations comprising providing using the processor of the computer at least a portion of text that includes a link for use by a website. A plurality of posts associated with a second website is monitored using the processor of the computer to determine whether the link is present in at least one post of the plurality of posts. A first user of the second website that has the link included in the at least one post is identified using the processor of the computer. Information associated with the first user is recorded in a data store using the processor of the computer in response to identifying that the first user has the link posted in the at least one post.

One or more of the following features may be included. Identifying the first user may include monitoring an associated second website profile of the first user. An associated second website profile of a second user identified by the at least one post of the first user may be monitored using the processor of the computer. A posting of the second user responding to the at least one post of the first user may be identified at the computer. Identifying the posting of the second user responding to the at least one post of the first user may include receiving at the computer the posting of the second user responding to the at least one post of the first user. The at least one post of the first user and the posting of the second user responding to the at least one post of the first user may be organized using the processor of the computer. The organized at least one post of the first user and the posting of the second user responding to the at least one post of the first user may be provided for display by the website using the processor of the computer. The link may be a shortened Uniform Resource Locator URL .

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the present disclosure may be embodied as a method system or computer program product. Accordingly the present disclosure may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore the present disclosure may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any suitable computer usable or computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a transmission media such as those supporting the Internet or an intranet or a magnetic storage device. Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer usable medium may include a propagated data signal with the computer usable program code embodied therewith either in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. The computer usable program code may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to the Internet wireline optical fiber cable RF etc.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present disclosure may be written in an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like. However the computer program code for carrying out operations of the present disclosure may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The present disclosure is described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the disclosure. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks or combinations thereof.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks or combinations thereof.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed not necessarily in a particular order on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts not necessarily in a particular order specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks or combinations thereof.

Referring to there is shown conversation monitoring process that may reside on and may be executed by computer which may be connected to network e.g. the Internet or a local area network . Examples of computer may include but are not limited to a single server computer a series of server computers a single personal computer a series of personal computers a mini computer a tablet computer a mainframe computer or a computing cloud. The various components of computer may execute one or more operating systems examples of which may include but are not limited to Microsoft Windows Server Novell Netware Redhat Linux Unix or a custom operating system for example.

As will be discussed below in greater detail conversation monitoring process may provide using a processor of a computer at least a portion of text that may include a link for use by a website. A plurality of posts associated with a second website may be monitored using the processor of the computer to determine whether the link is present in at least one post of the plurality of posts. A first user of the second website that has the link included in the at least one post may be identified using the processor of the computer. Information associated with the first user may be recorded in a data store using the processor of the computer in response to identifying that the first user has the link posted in the at least one post.

The instruction sets and subroutines of conversation monitoring process which may be stored on storage device coupled to computer may be executed by one or more processors not shown and one or more memory architectures not shown included within computer . Storage device may include but is not limited to a hard disk drive a flash drive a tape drive an optical drive a RAID array a random access memory RAM and a read only memory ROM .

Network may be connected to one or more secondary networks e.g. network examples of which may include but are not limited to a local area network a wide area network or an intranet for example.

Computer may include a data store such as a database e.g. relational database not shown and may be located in any suitable memory location such as within storage device coupled to computer . In some embodiments computer may utilize a database management system such as but not limited to My Structured Query Language MySQL in order to provide multi user access to one or more databases such as the above noted relational database. The data store may also be a custom database such as for example a flat file database or an XML database. Any other form s of a data storage structure may also be used. Conversation monitoring process may be a stand alone application that interfaces with the above noted data store and or an applet application that is accessed via client applications . The above noted data store may be in whole or in part distributed in a cloud computing topology. In this way computer and storage device may refer to multiple devices which may also be distributed throughout the network. Conversation monitoring process may include one or more user interfaces such as browsers and textual or graphical user interfaces through which users may access conversation monitoring process .

Conversation monitoring process may be accessed via client applications . Examples of client applications may include but are not limited to a standard web browser email client application a customized web browser or a custom application. The instruction sets and subroutines of client applications which may be stored on storage devices respectively coupled to client electronic devices respectively may be executed by one or more processors not shown and one or more memory architectures not shown incorporated into client electronic devices respectively .

Storage devices may include but are not limited to hard disk drives flash drives tape drives optical drives RAID arrays random access memories RAM and read only memories ROM . Examples of client electronic devices may include but are not limited to personal computer laptop computer smart phone notebook computer a tablet not shown a server not shown a data enabled cellular telephone not shown and a dedicated network device not shown .

One or more of client applications may be configured to effectuate some or all of the functionality of conversation monitoring process . Accordingly conversation monitoring process may be a purely server side application a purely client side application or a hybrid server side client side application that is cooperatively executed by one or more of client applications and conversation monitoring process .

Users may access computer and conversation monitoring process directly through network or through secondary network . Further computer may be connected to network through secondary network as illustrated with phantom link line .

The various client electronic devices may be directly or indirectly coupled to network or network . For example personal computer is shown directly coupled to network via a hardwired network connection. Further notebook computer is shown directly coupled to network via a hardwired network connection. Laptop computer is shown wirelessly coupled to network via wireless communication channel established between laptop computer and wireless access point i.e. WAP which is shown directly coupled to network . WAP may be for example an IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g Wi Fi and or Bluetooth device that is capable of establishing wireless communication channel between laptop computer and WAP . Smart phone is shown wirelessly coupled to network via wireless communication channel established between smart phone and cellular network bridge which is shown directly coupled to network .

As is known in the art all of the IEEE 802.11x specifications may use Ethernet protocol and carrier sense multiple access with collision avoidance i.e. CSMA CA for path sharing. The various 802.11x specifications may use phase shift keying i.e. PSK modulation or complementary code keying i.e. CCK modulation for example. As is known in the art Bluetooth is a telecommunications industry specification that allows e.g. mobile phones computers and smart phones to be interconnected using a short range wireless connection.

Client electronic devices may each execute an operating system examples of which may include but are not limited to Apple iOS Microsoft Windows Android Redhat Linux or a custom operating system.

As discussed above and referring also to conversation monitoring process may provide using a processor of a computer e.g. computer at least a portion of text that may include a link e.g. link for use by a website e.g. website . For example text e.g. USER D TEXT LINK TEXT that may include link may be displayed at website . Website may request that its readers through conversation monitoring process reproduce or otherwise disseminate the contents of text which may include link . According to one or more embodiments dissemination may occur for example by text and link being reproduced e.g. via a third party application e.g. post this message user interface button at website cut and paste etc. at one or more online posts. However those skilled in the art will recognize that any method of reproducing text may also be used without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Those skilled in the art will recognize that computer may be for example any combination of client electronic devices as well as computer .

As will also be appreciated by those skilled in the art the term post may generally be associated with for example blog posts online social networking website posts etc. however such an exclusive interpretation is not intended as other types of interpretations such as SMS text messages emails etc. may also be considered a post .

A plurality of posts e.g. posts associated with a second website e.g. an online social network may be monitored by conversation monitoring process using the processor of computer to determine whether link is present in at least one post e.g. post of the plurality of posts . Posts may be monitored from for example an associated second website user profile page of second website or may be monitored at a public stream feed of second website . For instance an application programming interface API associated with second website may work in combination with conversation monitoring process to search for strings in any public or private posts for link . Additionally alternatively text in part or in whole may be searched to determine whether link is present in post . Additionally alternatively in an embodiment where link is not included in text the specific text of text may be what is searched for to determine whether text has been reproduced.

As a result of monitoring posts a first user e.g. user and or of second website that has link included in post may be identified by conversation monitoring process using the processor of computer . According to one or more embodiments post of the first user may be used by conversation monitoring process to identify a second user e.g. user and or of second website . For instance in the example message USER D TEXT LINK TEXT while USER B e.g. the first user may have been the one to post text via conversation monitoring process USER D may be the identified second user to which text is directed.

Information associated with the first user may be recorded by conversation monitoring process in the above noted data store using the processor of computer in response to conversation monitoring process identifying that the first user has link posted in post . For example the username handle or other identification of the first user e.g. USER B who posted text may be recorded to maintain a record of each user willing to reproduce text as suggested by website . Other information and or metadata associated with the first user may also be recorded. Such information may be used by conversation monitoring process for example to monitor an associated second website profile of the first user e.g. automatically follow the first user e.g. via the profile page and or future posts of the first user .

Additionally alternatively an associated second website profile of the second user identified by post may be monitored by conversation monitoring process using the processor of computer in a similar manner as described above. For example the second user s profile page and or public stream feed of website may be monitored to allow conversation monitoring process at computer to identify post of the second user which may be a direct or indirect response to post of the first user. Such identification of post may be in response to for example the second user including link in the response post . Post as well as other information about the second user may also be stored at the above noted data store.

Conversation monitoring process may receive at computer from the data store or elsewhere post of the second user responding to post of the first user. Post of the first user and the response post of the second user may be organized by conversation monitoring process using the processor of computer . An example of the type of organization may be seen at . For instance because post of the second user is in response to post of the first user both posts and may be organized together in order to better convey a conversation taking place. Thus the organized post of the first user and response post of the second user may be provided by conversation monitoring process for display by website using the processor of computer .

While a particular organization and display is illustrated by those skilled in the art will recognize that other modifications and or substitutions may be made without departing from the scope of the disclosure. For example COMMENTS may be provided and organized together with posts and to allow other users to leave their associated comments and opinions pertaining to the organized conversation. As another example posts and may be provided in a summarized view to recap the essence of the conversation. As such any particular description or illustration of the organization and or display of should be taken as an example only and not to otherwise limit the scope of the disclosure.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that text need not be limited to the conventional usage of the term and may include such things as media and images among other things. Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that link may be a conventional Uniform Resource Locator URL as is known in the art however link may also be a shortened URL e.g. bit.ly hypertext anchor text link label link text which may or may not be identical to the actual text of the associated URL as well as any other type of means capable of being monitored and or searched. Additionally alternatively the presence of link need not be visibly apparent in text to the human eye.

It is also contemplated that website may be for example any type of website e.g. an online social network website a blog etc . Further while the second website may be generally described as a social networking site e.g. Facebook Twitter etc. those skilled in the art will recognize that other non social networking sites such as blogs user review sites etc. may also be used. Additionally alternatively website may be a third party website and or the same website as website . As such the specific description of website being a social networking site and or a website that is separate from website should be taken as an example only and not to otherwise limit the scope of the disclosure.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present disclosure. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block s may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the disclosure. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps not necessarily in a particular order operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps not necessarily in a particular order operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the disclosure in the form disclosed. Many modifications variations and any combinations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the disclosure. The embodiment s were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the disclosure and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the disclosure for various embodiment s with various modifications and or any combinations of embodiment s as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

Having thus described the disclosure of the present application in detail and by reference to embodiment s thereof it will be apparent that modifications variations and any combinations of embodiment s are possible without departing from the scope of the disclosure defined in the appended claims.

