---

title: Method and system for providing conferencing services
abstract: An approach is provided for supporting multi-media conferencing. Textual information (e.g., text associated with a presentation) is received for display during a conference session to multiple participants. For a particular participant, configuration information corresponding to the participant specifies language assistance for the textual information. Language assistance involves augmenting the textual information according to the configuration information for comprehension of the textual information by the particular participant. In one embodiment, the augmented textual information includes language translation of the textual information. Additionally, the augmented textual information can encompass definitions of terms, including acronyms. The augmented textual information is forwarded for display to the participant during the conference session.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09661142&OS=09661142&RS=09661142
owner: OL Security Limited Liability Company
number: 09661142
owner_city: Dover
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120111
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 903 590 filed Jul. 30 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 140 980 which claims the benefit of the earlier filing date of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 492 597 filed Aug. 5 2003 the entireties of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to communications systems and more particularly to conferencing systems.

Network service providers recognize the key role that conferencing services play in the conduct of modern business. Despite the evolution in communications infrastructure and associated services advancements in conferencing facilities have remained relatively stagnant with the focus on improving audio conferencing systems. Collaborative applications such as whiteboarding have emerged as tools that are helpful in supporting productive meetings. However these applications have largely been implemented at the end user level with little or no coordination with the conferencing facilities.

Conventionally the approach to scheduling conferences among many participants is performed in an ad hoc manner and is manually intensive. For example when a manager wants to set up a meeting with his team members who are geographically dispersed the manager typically instructs an assistant to contact each of the potential participants either through e mail or telephone. Generally this invitation and response process is performed several times until the assistant can establish a time that is suitable for all of the team members. Thereafter the assistant can schedule a time slot with the service provider for reserving the conference bridge. Generally this conference bridge is reserved well in advance of the actual meeting date. Even up to this point in the process scheduling and coordinating calendars can be overly cumbersome particularly if the number of participants is large. Moreover during the time period between the set up and the meeting date invariably one or more of the team members will have a conflict that arises thereby necessitating rescheduling of the meeting. Consequently the assistant will need to begin this process anew to schedule the meeting otherwise absenteeism can hinder the productivity of the meeting or render it all together ineffective especially if the key members are not there to provide input.

Additionally after the extensive effort at scheduling the conference traditional conference facilities provide no services that assist with improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the meeting. That is the provider of the conferencing services now merely supplies circuits and ports on the conference bridge.

Therefore there is a need for providing enhanced conferencing services to facilitate the scheduling and conducting of the meeting.

These and other needs are addressed by the present invention in which an approach for providing multi media conferencing supplies enhanced services to the participants of the conference session. The scheduling of the conference can be conducted collaboratively in a communications environment that supports a variety of media e.g. e mail page instant messaging and Internet Protocol IP telephony . During the conference or meeting a language assistance application can be invoked to augment textual information for comprehension of the textual information. For a particular participant configuration information corresponding to the participant specifies the nature of the language assistance requested. Language assistance involves augmenting the textual information according to the configuration information wherein the augmented textual information can include language translation of the textual information as well as assistive or supplemental information for the textual information. In an exemplary embodiment the supplemental information conveys definitions of terms which can include acronyms and abbreviations. The augmented textual information is forwarded for display to the participant during the conference session. By supplying augmented textual information the participants are less likely to interrupt the flow of the conference session thereby enhancing the efficiency of the meeting. The above arrangement advantageously improves the efficiency and effectiveness of the conference session by conveying information tailored to individual participates. The above approach also permits the service providers to enhance their communication service offerings thereby providing new sources of revenue.

According to one aspect of the present invention a method for providing multi media conferencing is disclosed. The method includes receiving textual information for display during a conference session among a plurality of participants. The method also includes retrieving configuration information specifying language assistance for the textual information wherein the configuration information is associated with one of the participants. Additionally the method includes augmenting the textual information according to the configuration information for comprehension of the textual information by the one participant. Further the method includes forwarding the augmented textual information for display to the one participant during the conference session.

According to another aspect of the present invention a system for providing multi media conferencing is disclosed. The system includes a conference scheduling application configured to receive textual information for display during a conference session among a plurality of participants and to retrieve configuration information specifying language assistance for the textual information wherein the configuration information is associated with one of the participants. Also the system includes a language assistance application configured to augment the textual information according to the configuration information for comprehension of the textual information by the one participant wherein the augmented textual information is forwarded for display to the one participant during the conference session.

According to yet another aspect of the present invention a computer readable medium carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions for providing multi media conferencing is disclosed. The one or more sequences of one or more instructions including instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform the steps of receiving textual information for display during a conference session among a plurality of participants and retrieving configuration information specifying language assistance for the textual information. The configuration information is associated with one of the participants. Further steps include augmenting the textual information according to the configuration information for comprehension of the textual information by the one participant and forwarding the augmented textual information for display to the one participant during the conference session.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the present invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the present invention. The present invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Accordingly the drawing and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

A system method and software for providing multi media conferencing are described. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention can be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

Although the present invention is explained with respect to a specific communication and signaling protocols the present invention also has applicability to other equivalent protocols. By way of example these specific protocols include the Session Initiation Protocol SIP as specified in the Internet Engineering Task Force IETF Request For Comment RFC 3261 the Media Gateway Control Protocol MGCP according to RFC 2705 and the International Telecommunications Union ITU Recommendations H.323 and H.248 all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

The conference scheduling application provides resource management of both the telephone conference bridge and the IP conference bridge . A service provider may have an overall capacity of hundreds or thousands of conferencing ports referring to the number of separate connections that are supported at any one time. The conference scheduling application processes requests to schedule a conference for a certain data and time as well as a specified number of ports. The conference scheduling application determines whether the request can be fulfilled and reserves or allocates the appropriate conferencing facilities. Additionally the functions of the conference scheduling application includes verifying schedules of physical facilities or equipment as well as participants individual schedules.

The conference scheduling application also interacts with a calendar sharing application and collaborative applications . These applications can include a presentation sharing application a language assistance application an application integration and sharing program and a logging and recording application

These collaborative applications according to one embodiment of the present invention can run on servers not shown and are implemented as commercially hosted web services or are implemented as enterprise applications serving users within an enterprise or those who are able to access an enterprise network through for example a Virtual Private Network VPN arrangement.

Further any one or all of these applications can support a web accessible interface and can be hosted as a service on server facilities independent from the network service provider e.g. a third party apart from the network service provider and the enterprise . This type of service relates to so called web services which are web accessible applications hosted on for example server hardware of a first company and made available for use by or on behalf of a second company. In an exemplary embodiment the conference scheduling application can be accessible by web browser applications. In addition the conference scheduling application can also be a proprietary client server application that enables users to conveniently schedule conferences.

The service provider can deploy a web server not shown as an interface between systems external to the service provider and those systems that are internal to the service provider. It is contemplated that the web server supports adequate privacy and security measures via user authentication. The web server can provide the user with the following functions checking of status of a meeting obtaining status on acknowledgement of participating parties obtaining status on attendance confirmation of participating parties modifying parameters set by the conference wizard can be offered only for the initiator of the conference or a super user and reviewing and selecting and modifying the list of services resources available for the meeting.

The collaborative applications allow multiple parties using web browsers or specialized applications to simultaneously view and or act upon a common view of a document presentation or other data object. An example of a collaborative application is a document editor wherein multiple parties can view a common document and provide editing input or even share editing control to modify the document while viewing it. Another example is a common whiteboard wherein multiple parties can view a graphical workspace and may take turns modifying or adding to the content. Other advanced tools include collaborative computer aided design CAD tools whereby engineers working at different locations may collaboratively design and view manufacturable parts or data models. The collaborative applications can also provide for parallel text messaging and audio conferencing as part of the communication session as well as support live video to provide face to face interaction. Also these collaborative applications can provide for a session owner or moderator who exercises control over the session to delegate editing control to other parties.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the application integration and sharing is a server process for enabling collaboration among multiple client application instances.

The conference logging and recording application allows for logging of events pertaining to a conference session and recording of the conduct of the session as well as the content of the session. Logging of events include for example start time stop time sign on and sign off times of each participant along with indexing markers or annotations inserted during the session by a presenter or participants. The recording process for instance includes recording video audio textual messaging conversations presentations and collaborative work as well as data items such as documents or images which are introduced by participants in the course of the meeting. Recording may also involve manual or automatic note taking vote tallies meeting minutes or meeting transcripts.

The conference scheduling application accesses data from a database which stores records of allocated conferencing resources and other pertinent data. The database also connects to a billing system that provides Rating Billing and Authorization RBA functions. Thus the billing system can use the database to store account information or records of billing related events received from other elements. The rating billing and authorization functions measure the usage of the communication services offered by the network service provider and determine billing for the usage. The billing system receives notifications from other network elements indicating the nature and amount of services provided such as the duration of telephone calls or video conferences. The billing system can also be involved in determining whether to honor requests for service based upon the ability of parties accessing the system to arrange for payment to the service provider.

The network service provider employs a service management system in support of various management functions for controlling the conferencing services.

A communications network provides communications among the processes and sub systems of the network service provider. For the purposes of explanation numerous elements in are shown as having connections to the network . However it is recognized that the network can include multiple interconnected networks with connectivity for example to the global Internet not shown or other public data networks. The network in an exemplary embodiment is a data transport network such as an Internet Protocol IP based network an Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM network a frame relay network or a combination thereof. The network interfaces with telephony systems such as a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN and a Private Branch Exchange PBX via the following nodes an Intelligent Service Node ISN a network gateway and an enterprise gateway .

The ISN is a voice service platform that can include both human telephone operators and automatic voice response units VRUs capable of receiving telephone calls and providing interaction with callers. For example the ISN utilizes a VRU function by which a caller is provided with automatic prompts and may traverse a menu structure by providing Dual Tone Multi Frequency DTMF tones or spoken input to the system. The ISN as a voice service platform provides a service by taking action in response to caller input such as retrieving information for the caller connecting a telephone call or performing transactions.

The network gateway provides an interface between the network and the PSTN . For example the network gateway may participate in Session Initiation Protocol SIP signaling on the data network side and present an Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN interface or Signaling System 7 SS7 signaling interface to the PSTN . As for the bearer channel for carrying telephony audio signals the network gateway converts among streaming data representing digitized audio in the network and analog or Time Division Multiplexing TDM signals suitable for the conventional PSTN . The network gateway enables a party using a SIP phone to call or be called by a party using a conventional phone such as telephone or a wireless phone . It is noted that the SIP phone can be implemented as a stand alone device or a software client.

Similarly the enterprise gateway couples the network to a private branch exchange PBX which supports one or more PBX telephones . In this example the PBX resides at the customer premise of a business organization. The PBX is often of proprietary design and function but presents a standard signaling and trunk interface in order to be connected to conventional telephone networks. For phone to reach or be reached by other phones coupled through the network the enterprise gateway appropriately adapts signaling and bearer channel information to support such communication.

The Network Service Provider additionally utilizes a Presence and Instant Messaging IM server for determining whether a user is currently participating in an online communication session i.e. instant communication session. The Presence and IM server can be a real time communications server that supports text messaging and presence indication. As use herein presence generally refers to the technique of indicating to one party whether another party is available to communicate and often further indicating what mode of communication is available or preferred. The Presence and IM server may operate as a presence server of the type described in Request For Comments RFC 2778 and RFC 2779 developed by the Internet Engineering Task Force IETF these documents are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties. The Presence and IM server receives presence indication from parties usually through their use of client applications similar to client . Examples of such applications include AOL Instant Messenger AIM client and a Microsoft Real Time Communications RTC client such as Windows Messenger.

The Presence and IM server alerts interested parties whether a particular party has indicated that they are present. This facilitates the ease and spontaneity with which parties may initiate conversations with one another. For establishing communications among parties the server may employ the Session Initiation Protocol SIP as described in IETF RFC 3261 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. In addition to text messaging sessions the Presence and IM server may facilitate audio or video communications among IC clients 

The Presence and IM server exchanges presence information with SIP Network Server and Redirect Server NS RS which interact with the billing system via a Fraud Management System FMS . In an exemplary embodiment the Rating Billing and Authorization function may subsume or communicate with the FMS. FMS is used by the network service provider to detect and curtail fraudulent or abusive use of the network as well as misuse or hacking of network facilities and resources. As indicated previously the RBA function can receive event notifications from a wide variety of elements that experience or observe usage by users of the system. As various notifications are received from elements throughout the system related to usage or attempted usage much of the same information used for billing purposes may also be used for monitoring of activity for the purpose of detecting fraud or abuse. Commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 6 601 048 to Gavan et al. which is incorporated herein in its entirety describes a suitable method by which the FMS may process event notifications and facilitate the detection of possible fraud or abuse.

To further curb the possibility of unauthorized access or use of the system or its resources the RBA function or some other supervisory function operated for the benefit of the network service provider may coordinate with an enterprise security function. This interchange of information may be used to for example involve an employee directory or authorization records maintained by the enterprise in decisions by the service provider s system as to whether to fulfill requests to establish communications schedule conferences etc.

Yet another measure for detecting fraud or breaches of security and privacy relates to the manner in which presence information held in NS RS or Presence and IM server may be correlated with live conference attendee information known to collaborative applications or conference bridges in . Discrepancies in these pieces of information pertaining to the whereabouts and identity of a person can be detected. For example a person registering presence at a given SIP phone that is known to have a particular physical location at the same time that they are involved in a conference from what is known to be an entirely different location may signify falsification by another party at either the phone or the conference. This occurrence may have a logical explanation in some circumstances but may nevertheless warrant investigation.

Another protection may be realized in monitoring and controlling outbound dialing occurring from conferences that are already underway. Authorizations abusive patterns among call participants and account balances may all be applied to controlling aspects of conferencing and collaboration service invocation.

The NS RS is optionally implemented as a combination of two SIP components a network server NS or proxy function and a redirect server RS or location server function. The NS function has responsibility for locating and establishing contact with a party. The NS creates and dispatches messages to other elements to coordinate the providing of services. If there is any statefulness in the course of processing a session request e.g. a telephone call it is the NS that holds such state. For example in the context of a find me feature wherein a series of contacts is to be tried in sequence the NS sends SIP INVITE messages or the like to each contact and keeps track of which contacts have responded and which contacts have yet to be tried.

The NS RS can interface to a Service Control Point SCP not shown in a traditional telephony intelligent network IN environment for various purposes. For example in some implementations VPN routing of telephone calls are performed in both a conventional telephone network and a packet switched telephony system that uses the network . A single version of the routing information are maintained in the SCP rather than having to synchronize SCP contents and RS contents. The main purpose of the RS function is to maintain profile information pertaining to the users. In a sense the RS function also keeps track of where or how a user can be contacted at any point in time. As users move about physically or logically from one terminal device to another and register their presence the RS receives notifications from the users as to their latest location.

Presence type information maintained by the RS function of the NS RS is similar to information supplied by the Presence and IM server . Consequently a presence sharing connection is provided for sharing of such information among these entities . For example the indication of presence by a party via an instant communications client is used to update presence information in the NS RS . This information can be used for example to complete telephone calls to the relevant party.

The fact that the scheduling application or collaborative application may sense when a given party is involved in a scheduled conference may be used to temporarily alter behavior of a user s profile in a redirect server of NS RS such that inbound calls may be handled differently without the user having to explicitly make changes to the profile. Likewise the detection of the conclusion of the conference may cause the profile behavior to revert to normal in the office handling or whatever mode of operation is appropriate.

In contrast to the NS function the RS function generally does not maintain state information or carry out the mechanics of processing a call or session request. The RS is utilized as a repository for profile and contact information. Upon receiving a request from one party to establish communications with another party the NS consults the RS for routing information. The RS reviews user profiles of one or both of the communicating parties and applies any applicable features such as find me or call blocking that may affect the applicable contact list for a given party. The RS provides the list of contact information to the NS so that the NS may then commence to try the contacts.

The profiles that the RS uses to affect processing of session requests are maintained by the Service Management function . The Service Management function provides the capability to edit contents of stored profiles and to perform validity checking and policy enforcement on the profile contents. Additionally the Service Management function is employed by the network service provider to control user features. Some aspects of control through the Service Management function may also be made available to users of the network so that the users or subscribers can customize their own features.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the functions and services provided by the Presence and IM server can be supplied to the enterprise as a paid service.

To ensure acceptable performance a Service Quality Monitor server is utilized to track the parameters relating to the service quality of the communication sessions supported by the network .

Under this scenario the network serves the various communication needs of an enterprise which utilizes multiple hosts personal computers a Voice Over IP phone e.g. SIP phone and a number of enterprise applications . These enterprise applications can include e mail calendar workflow a project management and organization chart

The e mail application can be implemented in a typical e mail server for receiving storing and routing e mail messages among enterprise clients and outside parties. The workflow application is a business process automation tool which handles the routing of work items among different departments or individuals in an organization to implement a consistent business process. As will be more fully described with respect to the workflow process can be enhanced with presence information.

The enterprise calendar application provides scheduling function across the enterprise. Many other enterprise applications such as time sheet management and inventory tracking applications are well known and are included in the set of enterprise applications . On the client side the PCs also include calendar applications respectively. The PC can execute a program that acts as a background client database access point. The program has access to databases that store the user s information about calendaring and contacts. In an exemplary embodiment the program can access databases accessible by Microsoft Office Phone Accelerator. Further the program can contact the conferencing system to update the database with information maintained by the user s databases. The program can control certain resources of the user s PC act on behalf of the conferencing system.

The project management or organization chart application provides another form of application integration. For instance the invitees to a communications sessions such as conferences and collaborative sessions may change dynamically in response to groupings identified in a project management tool or a position in an organizational chart. It may be desirable to establish a conference or collaboration with whomever is serving in particular role regardless of the particular names involved. This approach allows the manager to change assignments in the project management environment and not have to go into a separate communications oriented address book to update such information or have to remember names and addresses corresponding to people performing in each role. The behavior of the communications support system automatically tracks the changes in assignments recorded in the project management application

In general communications may be addressed to a group name or a role name or title and the communications or scheduling system consults the other applications to resolve the group or role identifier to a list of one or more contacts.

A similar effect may be employed for temporary delegation for example when one party leaves another party in charge of certain duties while they are away. When a person indicates delegation of responsibilities such as signature authority in another tool such as a workflow tool a communications scheduling tool may correspondingly direct invitations to the delegate in lieu of the named party. Resolution may take place based on name or e mail address rather than requiring that the intended party be identified by role name as described above.

This delegation behavior may differ from the mere forwarding of e mail to the delegate that was originally addressed to the delegating party. The full richness of the delegate s own communications preferences such as Find me functionality and multiple modes of communication may be employed by the communications system to reach the delegate according to the various ways provided for in SIP controlled communications systems.

Also context sensitive delegation is possible. A selective delegation of responsibilities with regard to a specific topic or project may be supported across all manner of communications in the system of . E mail and workflow items may be routed to a delegate based upon content or subject line as described later with respect to . Even phone calls established using a SIP mechanism may bear a subject line header in the signaling information and may be selectively redirected based on this information.

It is contemplated that from within the project management or organization chart application the conferencing capabilities of the system of can be invoked based on the information contained within the application.

The enterprise applications can be hosted on computing servers maintained by the enterprise and housed at enterprise facilities. These applications are accessible to enterprise personnel through an enterprise data network. Although not shown the enterprise can employ one or more local area network LANs or wide area networks WANs to which the hosts e.g. workstations and servers can access the network and provide connectivity to the enterprise. Such internal networks can be protected by the enterprise security system which can implement a firewall for access to the Internet or to an external data network. For the purposes of explanation the network can effectively be regarded as a single contiguous information transport network.

Further the enterprise can deploy an enterprise security system for effecting security policies and mechanisms e.g. firewalls within the enterprise network. The system can communicate with the service provider over the network to coordinate and implement security measures.

As an example of the diversity of communication media within the enterprise it is assumed that user of the PC seeks to communicate with a user of the PC . Such communication can be accomplished in a variety of ways. These parties can perform text messaging chat with one another using applications such as instant communications client executed on the PCs . Alternatively these parties may converse by conventional telephones PBX telephones or by the use of SIP telephony applications on the computers or SIP phones coupled to the network .

These parties can also engage in live video or collaborative interactions wherein other modes of communication are used in parallel i.e. concurrently with the collaborative applications . For example the parties may collaborate on editing a document using their respective workstations while discussing the work over a telephone connection.

For collaborative interactions the PC can execute an application instance with collaboration capabilities the instance represents a client application for example a stand alone executable or an application provided by a web browser using such exemplary tools as applets Java Server Pages JSP etc. by which the PC can participate in collaboration via one or more collaborative applications . For example the application instance can be a Project Management Application a Resource Management Application or a Financial Management Application integrated with collaboration related tools or functions such as presence sharing and etc. The counterpart process to the application instance is the application integration and sharing program

With the services offered by the network service provider via the network the many network elements of can exchange various information including signaling digitized audio signals video data files SIP messages text messaging presence related registrations and inquiries images authentications billing related events etc. Both signaling and information traffic are communicated among the elements through the network . Digitized audio signals are as a stream of packetized data according to in an exemplary embodiment the International Telecommunications Union ITU H.225 protocol suite including the Real time Transport Protocol RTP .

With respect to the conferencing services the telephone conferencing bridge couples to the PSTN to provide an audio conferencing bridge that multiple parties may dial into to communicate with one another. Although shows the bridge interfacing with the PSTN it is contemplated that the service provider can own and operate some telephony switches such as Class 3 switches that are viewed as being a part of the PSTN and may couple parties over a wide geographical area into the bridge through a network of one or more Class 3 or Class 4 telephony switches.

Whereas the telephone conferencing bridge provides conferencing among parties who are coupled through the PSTN the Internet Protocol IP conferencing bridge serves parties who are engaging in telephony via the data network . It is recognized that by the presence of the network gateway either the IP conferencing bridge or the telephone conferencing bridge can be used to conference a mixture of parties who are using traditional telephony as well as voice over packet technologies. For example the SIP phone may participate in a conference along with one or more conventional telephones using the telephone conferencing bridge . To accomplish this the SIP phone can establish a two way RTP audio connection with the gateway which extends as a telephony connection through PSTN and to the bridge .

In a voice over packet environment the bridge performs the equivalent function of a conventional audio bridge in processing audio signals from multiple parties coupled to the bridge . The IP conferencing bridge can support two way RTP stream connectivity with multiple sources and processes wherein the various incoming digitized audio streams are combined or selectively gated and subsequently dispatched to the conference participants. The IP conferencing bridge may also operate to serve as a video or multimedia conferencing bridge. To establish the multiple packet telephony connections the bridge is configured to conform to such standard signaling protocols as International Telecommunications Union ITU H.323 or SIP. The IP conferencing bridge can also be referred to as a conferencing server. 

Yet another approach for accommodating both IP phones and conventional telephones involves coupling the two types of conference bridges to one another. This coupling can be readily accomplished particularly if both bridges are under control of a common service provider.

According to one embodiment of the present invention each conference participant has a corresponding data profile. The data profile may include an image a sound bite a video clip or an animated graphical presentation to be presented to callers either while in conference or while being summoned or while on hold.

The conferencing system may display each remote party by an image on the screen perhaps as a static image in lieu of full motion video. The view may show an array of head shots of each participant. As each person talks their corresponding image on the interface changes in some manner to highlight the source of the speaking. Alternatively to save space while using a collaborative whiteboard for example a single space for showing these images is provided and the image in this space changes to reflect whoever is speaking or dominating the bridge at that moment. The conferencing bridge or server can sense which input channel is dominant either due to automatic volumes sensing or due to active control by a moderator and send this information along to the various client applications or devices being used by each participant. It is contemplated that a person participating via a RTP audio session or a conventional telephone call might nevertheless have an interface on a workstation that displays the various parties on the call and indicates who is speaking at any given moment. This may be achieved by communications from the conferencing bridge or the collaborative application to a workstation application resident on PCs . Whereas the images or identifiers for the participants may have been communicated earlier at the commencement of the conference or as part of the invitation the real time display of currently talking parties may use the same identifiers or some other suitable mapping that adequately matches the dominant speaker to their respective display position.

Another data element available from the participant may be a business card resume or other textual data that is immediately viewable to other participants without having to be explicitly uploaded or displayed during the conference. In other words every time a person participates in a conference their electronic business card is automatically available to everyone else because it is provided in their profile information. Participant user interfaces may allow for selecting or activating a name identifier or image corresponding participant to have the corresponding data presented for viewing or downloaded such as into an address book or business contact database. An alternative may be a user interface control that when selected or activated performs a similar retrieval or display operation pertaining to whoever is speaking or dominating the bridge at that moment. The information may reside in a database e.g. NS RS that is accessible to conferencing or collaborative applications servers. This information may be cached as each participant enters the conference or may be obtained prior to the commencement of the conference session. Alternatively information such as SIP signaling messages used to join each participant to the conference may be augmented by a short data stream pertaining to the participant or pointing to a source of further information.

The conference scheduling application can also provide automatic identification of the caller. The capability is particularly useful in conferences that involve a very large number of participants. For example a company executive may wish to address a large number of employees and perform essentially a unidirectional broadcast. This situation is often handled differently than a conventional audio bridge conference session. To manage the large number of audio inputs and prevent talkers and extraneous noises from interrupting the conference the many channels are coupled to the audio bridge in a listen only mode. The incoming lines are coupled to a conference operator or moderator. If and when the session is opened for questions from the participants each participant wanting to talk may indicate a desire to do so by pressing a key on a telephone keypad or otherwise summoning the attention of the moderator so that the participant may be queued for being able to talk on the bridge.

Another aspect of these types of calls is that as each party joins the conference call the moderator asks each party to identify themselves. This may be used for authentication purposes and may also be used by the moderator to introduce the participant to the listening audience when the participant is later granted permission to speak. In accordance with the present teachings presence information maintained within Presence and IM server or NS RS may be used to provide or confirm the identity of a participant for the benefit of a moderator in these situations.

It is contemplated that system of support rollover into conferencing or collaboration from chat or other modalities. In other words users involved in communications sessions should be able to freely add or delete modes of communication e.g. chat voice shared whiteboard extra participants without having to drop communications altogether or make pre arrangements. The service provider should also be able to monitor the setup and dissolution of a variety of sessions and be able to accurately bill for such usage.

Throughout the description of various features and processes mentioned above there are opportunities to take into account relative priorities and deciding whether one interest prevails over another. Relative priorities may be applied as various parties or project activities vie for conferencing resources or as urgent work items and events compete for the time of a busy enterprise employee.

It is contemplated that the conferencing services supported by the bridges are provided as revenue producing services by the network service provider. Accordingly the billing system may play an integral role in a commercial service.

Referring now to the database comprises multiple databases in support of the billing rating and authorization function of the billing system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The billing database couples to a billing interface that creates billing records within the billing database in response to event notifications that are received from various network elements in the system of . These event notifications are indicative of service usage by the users. The billing system are implemented for example as one or more server computer systems that executes billing interface in software to collect usage related information from other elements. A similar billing function is operated by a service provider that hosts collaborative applications and or calendar sharing applications .

As mentioned the billing system collects and processes event notifications from other elements indicative of usage. The billing system also compares notifications or records from various sources to compile event records that are related to a common conference session or common instance of usage. Additionally the billing system determines apportionment of charges and resolves how charges should be billed and who should be billed. As evident in one option involves use of a credit card database that can be coupled to external credit card systems . This is noteworthy in that users who are not pre subscribed to some services may nevertheless use the system spontaneously as long as they are able to provide for some means of payment. This is referred to as walk in or random business as opposed to subscribed or contractually prearranged business arrangements.

Another role of the billing system is to authorize the accessing and usage of system resources based upon the ability of a party to pay for usage. In other words when a user initiates a scheduling request or an actual communications or conference session the billing system determines whether the user has an account in good standing to which charges are applied. Furthermore a balance related to a charge account limit or pre paid account of some nature are debited and tested while the user uses the system. The use of the system can be terminated perhaps with advance warning to the user upon the account balance being exhausted.

The billing database by way of example comprises a number of individual databases each representing a particular method of billing a Pre Paid database a Collect database a Subscriber database a Post paid database an Automatic Number Identification ANI database a Third Party database as well as an Other Billing database to accommodate various other billing methods. Each individual database can be implemented by a standalone database containing records of accounts or can be an interface to an external system such as a validation system operated by a credit card company. The description of the databases is enumerated below in Table 1.

As indicated by the Other billing database the above billing methodologies are not exclusive but are instead merely illustrative of some of the billing options that can be used to receive value in exchange for the provision of chat based services. It is noted that the various databases can communicate with external systems for maintaining its data. For example the Credit Card database couples to a credit card system . The billing functionality can be logically or physically centralized or distributed and can be integrated to varying degrees with other network elements within the system of .

As seen in a participant transmits a request via a user interface such as the collaborative application instance to the conference scheduling application . The application in turn accesses the necessary information from the database to create invitations to the other participants. In this example the database stores calendar information specifying schedules of the particular participants address book information and resource reservation information. The invitations are transmitted to the participants according to their respective profiles. For instance the invitations can be sent based on the delivery mechanisms specified in the profiles. These mechanisms can include e mail paging and instant messaging.

As an invitation to a meeting conference or collaboration session is sent out the invitation may contain elements that interact with a calendar application e.g. Microsoft Outlook to cause the meeting to be automatically noted as an event on the personal schedule of the invitee wherein an e mail notification contains information that causes a scheduled event to be added to a participant s calendar. The notification can include an icon signifying the nature of the event so that in a graphical rendering of the calendar the icon provides a visually compact reminder of the nature of the event such as a logo of a particular organization to denote a meeting of that organization.

Traditionally calendar applications employ a fixed set of symbols to represent various types of events. However the present invention according to one embodiment advantageously allows for sending of an arbitrary icon. This is highly flexible and enables the sender to make effective use of the invitation as a reminder.

In addition to the participants themselves having the capability to collaboratively establish a conference the conference scheduling application supports conference setup by a third party. For example in some environments it is desirable to allow a third party such as an administrative assistant to set up conferences and collaborative sessions on behalf of the participants. This is important where a physical conference room needs to be scheduled in conjunction with the reservation. Where a service provider operates or hosts a conference scheduling application an interface is provided wherein authorization to perform actions on behalf of others is configurable by the service provider or by a responsible party at the enterprise.

Upon receipt of the invitation the invitee can accept or decline the invitation to join the conference via a number of communication mechanisms as next described.

The composing and embedding of response addresses in an invitation to facilitate responding to the invitation may depend on the type of communications used to send the invitation. For example a telephone message can issue a callback telephone number before listing other response alternatives such as an e mail address. On the other hand an invitation sent via instant messaging may provide a response screen name first followed by e mail or telephone number information. An e mail invitation can supply a telephone number that is dialed and a Uniform Resource Locator URL hyperlink pointing to a web page or an IM chat icon. Of course the invitee can respond simply by replying to the e mail. The telephone number that is provided in the e mail invitation or page can be to an automated VRU such as the Intelligent Service Node to provide a response to the invitation. A connection is provided by which a voice response interaction with a user who has dialed in to respond to an invitation are used to update an invitation response status within conference scheduling application .

In addition a paging message can be sent to a pager to provide a telephone number or text message indicating how the invitation is answered. In the case of a two way pager acknowledgement of receipt of a page is monitored to indicate receipt status to a requestor. The two way paging system can provide for Yes No answers or even full text to be sent as a response via e mail. It is recognized that some paging systems can also detect successful dispatching or receipt of a page even if there is no capability to support full two way text messaging.

A web based application may receive responses to invitations so that a participant can respond from any workstation with a web browser application. Under this scenario network security measures can be taken such as secured VPN access to internal application or authentication procedures and secure communications to Internet accessible sites.

As noted the invitation can be dispatched by variety of means. Additionally this dispatch can be subject to a profile controlled find me function which may involve presence state employing a variety of contacts and a variety of modes of communication to reach an invitee party with the invitation.

It is recognized that under some circumstances the requestor of the meeting will contact prospective invitees before involving the reservation system. That is the person may seek to informally determine whether a meeting is worthwhile before involving the formal scheduling mechanism. When it is decided that a meeting is desired then the requestor can utilize the scheduling application to reserve resources and obtain particular information such as conference bridge dial in number and password physical location etc. The conferencing system is useful in this type of scenario because the system provides broadcast of the finalized meeting information and can provide invitation response status if needed. Upon sending out the invitations the scheduling application tracks the responses.

The conference requestor can elect to be actively notified of the invitation responses through the user interface . This notification can similarly be accomplished in a variety of ways through various devices including PDA pager telephone text message or e mail. The frequency of updates or conditions under which the requestor is to be contacted with update information is configurable as to suit the preferences of the requestor or in accordance with policies set at the enterprise level.

As explained previously the conference scheduling application processes input criteria from the requestor such as the meeting criteria the time limit for responding to the invitation and the settings and criteria for notifying the requestor. The application ensures that the criteria is satisfied in setting up the conference and determines whether to commit or release resources based on the received responses and the available resources as indicated in the resource reservation information within the database .

The conference scheduling application also supports the capability for the requestor to inquire about the meeting confirmation status. For example the requestor can determine the status by dialing via telephone to a VRU establishing an instant messaging session with a chat accessible service platform using a suitable workstation client application accessing a site on the web or corresponding with the system via e mail.

The conferencing system may also be configured to enforce any meeting confirmation criteria. For meetings involving selected groups of people such as a department or a committee an address book function is provided to maintain a corresponding list of attendees similar to an e mail distribution list. To facilitate assembling lists of participant information the contact information for a participant can be obtained from a variety of sources at the user s workstation e.g. PCs . Electronic mail applications commonly provide many features to facilitate addressing of return mail and for accumulating and managing address book lists.

In the context of conferencing collaboration scheduling and instant communications it is advantageous to be able to glean contact information from the data items or applications. A user can retrieve contact information from an identifier from any source including non e mail sources such as electronic business cards. The integrated desktop environment can utilize a clipboard feature or comparable facility in other user interface environments to collect or drag and drop names and addresses or information that could be interpreted and resolved to a contact among the various applications.

A conference event can be represented as a packaged data entity that is accessible by many applications and may exist as a desktop icon and exhibit menu activated and drag and drop activity. This data entity has several important attributes such as location actual or planned attendees scheduled times actual duration and pointers to supplementary materials or transcripts. As one example of the use of this entity a user may wish to set up a new conference having many or all of the same attributes as an existing planned or concluded conference. To schedule the new conference the user may first launch a scheduling interface that provides text entry or other controls for accepting input on conference parameters. Where the interface provides a place to accept attendees the user may drag and drop the former conference s data object onto the attendee entry area to have the attendee list from the former meeting applied to the new meeting. Where the interface is receptive to time and date information the data object representing the earlier conference is drag and drop manipulated to replicate its time and or date parameters in the new conference. It should be noted that these actions provide a starting point from which the attendee list time and date info or other attributes of the new conference may then be edited as needed before submitting the scheduling request to the scheduling application or engine .

Alternatively the user may perform a copy and paste operation involving the original conference object to create a duplicate as a starting point. The conference data object is used for entering into an active conference by being manipulated onto for example an instant communications client or a telephone dialing application. The entry into the conference may also be a menu option associated with the desktop icon of the conference event object.

It is noted that the conference session can involve instant messaging communication telephony communication or even launching of a collaborative application. To facilitate such use the user can be provided a menu option toolbar icon or other activatable user interface element which in the context of an e mail being selected or viewed by the user draws the contact information from the e mail and launches a communications interface having the same parties identified in preparation for engaging in instant communications with them.

This may also involve recognizing and converting names or e mail addresses to other forms of addressing such as chat screen names telephone numbers Uniform Resource Identifier URI aliases etc. which are suitable for establishing instant communication with the appropriate parties. An alternative is to have a system supporting instant communications scheduling conferencing etc. that accepts e mail addresses directly and performs a best effort resolution of addresses.

One approach in which a user may arrange a conference involves establishing a chat session with a chat accessible service. The user may converse with a human assistant or automated assistant via chat or using an instant communications client to request that a conference be scheduled to request information about a conference or to immediately have a conference session established.

A regular meeting or an impromptu meeting can be readily called by referring to a preset group of attendees. According to one embodiment of the present invention a meeting request may remain tentative until certain criteria are met. For example one may specify that the meeting is not confirmed until all of the invitees agree to meet or at least some minimum number or percentage of the invitees agree to meet. In other cases specific individuals are designated as required whereas other attendees are optional. The address book stores such information for specific groups or types of meetings such as a quarterly operations review. In other cases the conference requestor specifies these criteria on an ad hoc basis as part of the initial request. A maximum time i.e. time out for invitation responses can be set.

The conferencing system supports various interfaces whereby the requestor can be notified of which and or how many invitees have responded and whether the conference has been successfully reserved based on the criteria set forth. The interfaces for receiving this status of the conference reservation can include e mail phone text messaging etc. The requestor is also provided with a list of names of parties that have responded and or a list of those who have not responded. The frequency of updates or conditions under which the requestor is to be notified of the status of the meeting is optionally configurable by the requestor.

It is noted that at times a conferencing collaboration or instant communications session is desired with at least one member of a given group or category of invitees but without requiring any specific member. For example the invitation can be directed to a pool of employees within a particular department wherein any one of the employees possesses the appropriate authority to take action e.g. respond to requests or initiate work orders .

The various described procedures and mechanisms for setting up a conference can also be applied to reschedule conferences should the need arise.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the conferencing scheduling application provides a conferencing wizard which guides the user through screens and menus for setting up a conference. The wizard can prompt for information about the meeting and the participants. Meeting information can include parameters enumerated in Table 2 below and participant information can be those listed in Table 3. The complement of options provided to the user by the conferencing wizard may be affected by such factors as an assessment of resources that will be available during the desired meeting time the set of features that the user is authorized to employ for conference scheduling capabilities and schedule availability of invitees as may be determined in real time by checking calendar information or presence information or consulting of databases or directories or applications organizational chart project tracking application etc. which determine a set of invitees corresponding to a particular group or class of invitees.

The conference invitation or session request can be configured such that when any one member of a group responds affirmatively the conference is confirmed or the communications are initiated. Any concurrent invitations to other members of the group who were not the first to respond are optionally withdrawn or those members can simply be copied on the finalization details of the conference. The other members of the group are informed of which group member responded on behalf of the group or is indeed handling the matter.

Returning to the example of when a user receives an invitation the user can be presented with a meeting reminder in a calendar application e.g. Microsoft Outlook calendar application or a meeting invitation similar to Windows Messenger Sametime or AOL IM that allows the recipient to click one button for entry into the conference either through voice video and or data collaboration e.g. file sharing application sharing electronic white board etc. In this manner the participation process is automated such that the recipient need not perform any process manually.

In the response process a file containing a description and identification of the conference can be exchanged whereby the file can be input into and interpreted by a conference application within a host workstation or device of the participant. The file can be specified as a particular file type or extension that is readily recognized at the device thereby causing a conferencing application to be launched for handling the file to enter the conference with minimal additional input from the user.

The workstation can provide for entry into conference in a largely automatic manner without the user having to locate and act upon the invitation to enter into a conference. Entry into a conference is automatically triggered as a recurring event when a conference becomes active or when the scheduled start time of the conference arrives. Another type of automatic conference entry may occur when an immediate conference invitation is received. The user may configure the workstation or system profile information such that when a conference invitation from a certain party or concerning a certain subject arrives the user is automatically entered into the conference including any parallel sessions or applications required for participation.

Alternatively a user can select or activate this type of feature associated with an invitation whereupon the user is presented with a dialog box to verify that the user indeed wants to join the conference at that time. The option to enter the meeting immediately is conditionally presented to the user based upon whether the current time is within the published time frame of the conference or is responsive to sensing whether the conference is indeed underway as will be described later herein. The dialog box may provide an opportunity to authenticate the user attempting to enter the conference.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the information necessary to identify the conference and any required parameters for successfully joining the conference are embedded in or referenced by the invitations. When the user activates this feature in the invitation the user is automatically joined to the conference if the conference is underway. That is the user need not perform any additional steps to join the conference such as invoking a separate application and then specifying what conference is to be joined.

Data pertaining to the conference such as presentation handouts or e mails may also automatically be presented to the user upon entering the conference or as an option upon activating or selecting a feature embedded in the invitation.

Although the screen is shown as appearing in a user interface as list or table of invitee names or other identifiers along with one or more indicators representing whether each entry has received acknowledged accepted or declined the invitation those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that there are many possible configurations for presenting this type of information. For example the status fields can be represented by changes in the appearance e.g. color font style of the invitee s name or changes in the graphical icon associated with the name. Alternatively the list can selectively indicate only those parties who have or have not responded in some manner. Also the screen can display an array of images representing the invitees. The images may similarly change in appearance or placement so as to convey the acknowledgment acceptance status of invitees. Textual identifiers and graphical representations for invitees are used as alternatives or in combination subject to implementation display device capabilities and to the preferences of the user viewing the interface. The images can also change to represent the availability of the invitees based on the invitees electronic calendars.

The user interface for displaying the invitation response status for a given event can be provided via an application on a requestor s workstation corporate application or web service with due consideration for security measures. That is the screen can be displayed to the conference requestor through a web browser application or other equivalent client application.

The response status information is synchronized with the respective participants electronic calendar e.g. . For instance an acknowledged and accepted invitation is placed on the participant s calendar. The real time display of acknowledgement status may optionally be made available to other attendees so they can be notified whether a meeting is indeed materializing. In various embodiments of the present invention responses are received by a functional e mail account Real Time Communications RTC server web service application or requestor s workstation with application plug ins or helper applications.

With the graphical display of the conference status information the requestor is better informed in the instances where certain parties remain unaware of the invitation or cannot attend the meeting. The requestor can then decide to postpone or cancel a meeting based upon this feedback thereby reducing the probability of no shows at the meeting. By automatically informing the requestor in this manner the conference scheduling process is advantageously made more efficient.

In step the conference scheduling application initializes the conference state to be Inactive. If one or more party joins the session or session data has commenced per step then the conference state is set as Active step . Next the conference scheduling application in conjunction with the telephone conference bridge and or the IP conference bridge determines whether the conference has concluded for example based on either all the parties signing off the conference or the moderator conducting the conference has signed off as in step . If either of the condition has occurred then the conference state is set to Concluded per step .

As described earlier the conferencing system supports recording of the conference. In step the conference scheduling application determines whether the conference has been recorded and is available either through a transcript e.g. meeting minutes or recording. If such information is available the conference state can be set as in step to reflect this option i.e. Concluded Output is Available state.

Therefore a user who is not a participant in a given meeting can nevertheless be notified of the termination of the meeting. This information is useful in that the user may wish to know the schedule and location of a participant of the conference. The user can invoke a feature within the conferencing system to dispatch communications such as a text page or an instant messaging communication when the system detects the conclusion of the session or the conclusion of the particular attendee s involvement in the session.

Effectively the presence state is known to the conferencing system. This enables checking by users or by applications of whether a meeting or session is indeed active at any given time. This awareness can be used for example to signal would be participants that a scheduled meeting was terminated early saving them time and effort to log into a meeting only to find that it has already concluded. This capability can result in tremendous efficiency in time management particularly to those users who are extremely busy.

This integration of the conference status information with the calendaring function is diagrammatically illustrated in . A collaborative application or conference bridge e.g. bridges provides input to a conference state monitoring process . In an exemplary embodiment this process is executed as part of the conference scheduling application . The conference state monitoring process provides status update information to a presence server which stores conference presence state information. The presence server in turn provides the information to a presence watcher fetcher process which interfaces with a calendar application .

The calendar application operates in a real time to update the conference presence state per the real time clock . Accordingly the calendar application can graphically show for example that the meeting is in progress is running overtime or has concluded with the actual start and stop times depicted on the interface. The appearance of the calendar application can be manipulated to indicate when the meeting is actively in session and when the user is an invitee. The appearance may also communicate whether attendance of the particular user is imperative or optional. The size occupied by the indication e.g. a bar indicator superimposed in the calendar or day planner interface is indicative of actual start and stop times or overall duration. Hence the appearance of the calendar can be configured to convey whether the meeting is planned currently active or concluded or canceled as well as how many people have been invited are currently attending or did attend the subject meeting.

Furthermore various actions can be invoked by selecting icons images or text within the calendar associated with the particular meeting time slot as depicted on the user interface. For example by clicking within the meeting slot the meeting transcript chat retrieval of recording or retrieval of presentations documents used or contributed during the meeting. Other actions can be triggered such as copying the attendee list to the system clipboard.

Another action that may occur upon the user clicking or selecting the graphical representation of the meeting is to immediately connect the user to the conference including opening any additional interfaces and establishing sessions as needed. This capability facilitates the use of conferencing invitations and personal calendar interfaces. The graphical representation and its behavior may also be presented to the user as a standalone icon on the user s desktop.

As described above in the context of a conferencing event the notion of an event having a presence state relates to the ability to detect and indicate to a participant whether a given conference is available to engage in a communications session at a given moment.

As seen in a workstation e.g. PCs and of executes a calendar application which includes a calendar user interface a calendar engine and a calendar database file . The calendar application interacts with an extraction application which calls the calendar Application Programming Interfaces APIs of the calendar engine . The extraction application can be accessed through an optional user interface .

The extraction application communicates with a network service management system which exchanges information with a shared calendar application and by way of example a remote enterprise calendar . The workstation has connectivity to a data network e.g. enterprise network for communicating with the enterprise group scheduling application as well as a peer workstation .

For the purposes of explanation the calendar application includes a personal calendar and time management functions e.g. Microsoft Outlook . It is contemplated that selected information from the user s calendar are extracted and communicated to the scheduling application or communicated among other workstations e.g. workstation in a peer to peer fashion. For example unreserved times in the user s normal work schedule might be made known to others so that they may more effectively choose meeting or conferencing times that avoid scheduling conflicts.

The extraction application extracts personal calendar information resident on the user s workstation and reports the extracted information to for example the enterprise calendar or scheduling application . The extraction application according to various embodiments can range from a minimal process operating invisibly on the workstation to a complete standalone application providing a user interface by which the user can configure its operation such as controlling what information are extracted and presented to others. Alternatively the extracting process may operate elsewhere on another host wherein access to this type of information at the workstation is through file sharing or inter process communication.

As shown the users calendars can be maintained entirely in a central location such as the enterprise wide calendar and the group scheduling application . The information is readily accessible to a scheduling function and the parties can access their calendars through web browsers or other clients. The calendar information that is extracted remotely maintained and made available for scheduling processing or review by others are all inclusive or are selectively restricted. For example only unreserved or open or available time slots are extracted and provided to the scheduling application which can be deployed as a scheduling server . In other cases a user s entire schedule is remotely recorded whereby only free time slots are made visible to the scheduling application or to other parties. The ability of other users to access this information in an exemplary embodiment depends on their access privileges delegation of authority or their role within an organization. The access control parameters are configurable at an enterprise level according to policy and or by individuals associated with the calendar information.

In another embodiment of the present invention the users schedules are implemented as a server that is accessible by users from many enterprises or other parties outside of the enterprise. This type of server is depicted in as calendar sharing application which may or may not be hosted and controlled by the network service provider. It should be noted that the calendar sharing application enables sharing of availability information among users from different organizations in addition to users within the same organization. This capability is useful when two different organizations need to closely collaborate for example a team of designers from one company works with a group of manufacturing engineers from another company in a joint venture. For the benefit of the collaborative effort wherein the users from different companies will function temporarily as a single cohesive team the scheduling application supports scheduling of meetings or conferences with knowledge of the time slots available for the team members.

With due consideration for security and privacy issues the calendar sharing application may serve as a repository for limited personal schedule information to be shared among companies. This avoids the companies having to expose some of their network and computing infrastructure to one another. In this regard the calendar sharing application complements the common meeting point role served by the collaborative applications .

The manner and degree to which personal or resource schedule information is provided to the calendar sharing application and the control of who may access such information are administered by selected users in the enterprise or by a service provider or other entity having control of the application. For example limited sharing arrangements mutually agreed upon by collaborating organizations are configured for example through service management application .

Media crossover may involve for example having audio converted to from text messaging having graphical text converted to text messaging or audio and having snapshots of images sent via facsimile transmission. The collaborative applications are utilized to accommodate differences between presentation media and participant reception capabilities. This technique can be applied as seen in to a participant who is using only a telephone e.g. a SIP phone whereas other participants are engaging on chat or viewing textual information via a chat server . While monitoring the conference by listening through the telephone the participant can receive a low volume audio signal from a text to speech TTS converter . By the proper selection of speech characteristics for the speech rendering the text reading undertone can be readily distinguished from live conference speeches from the other participants connected to the audio bridge e.g. telephone conference bridge . The TTS converter can be controlled by user profile settings supplied by a NS RS server . For a SIP call the RTP mixing can be performed at the SIP phone alternatively if the call is a conventional telephony call i.e. circuit switched call then the TTS audio undertone can be supplied to the audio bridge .

As another example of media crossover a user can participate in the conference session by video through an instant communications client however the user may not have full access to a collaborative application by which to participate and view the shared whiteboard or workspace. In accordance with an embodiment of the present invention the participant who has a video connection may receive the whiteboard image as a converted video image. Under this scenario the participant s video feed can switch between the presenter and a video rendering of the whiteboard space. This switching may occur either automatically under the control of the presenter or as requested by the participant.

As shown multiple presentation application instances are executed wherein each of the respective instances loads a presentation file and transmits the file to corresponding device context modules . The instances in an exemplary embodiment are launched from the presentation sharing application of . Although shown as separate components the presentation application instances and the device context modules reside on a common server. In fact the collaborative applications can be executed on such a common server.

The presentation sharing application shown in supports the ability to show a view of the presentation file to users who do not have the presentation application on their computers or devices but instead have for example a web browser application. This approach advantageously minimizes the requirement of the end devices to have additional applications and avoids having to disseminate copies of the presentation before or during the conference. Additionally the approach ensures that proprietary presentations are not stored or distributed without the consent of the presenter.

In the course of providing slideshow presentations and whiteboarding display to a variety of participants the server customizes output in a variety of ways including language translation of text passages within presentations and messaging communications. Also the output of graphical information to participants is differentiated at the server. The presentation or collaboration server tailors the output format to suit various types of end user devices associated connection speeds and user preferences. Specifically each of the device context modules converts the file to accommodate the end device that is to display the presentation the conversion can involve altering the size resolution color format etc. of the presentation file . For example a lower resolution view of a presentation is suitable for using a PDA . Rather than sending a high resolution image to a small display the resolution is reduced and efficiently transmitted a lower resolution view. This avoids burdening the end user device with scaling down or re sampling the image on the fly. Having the server perform the display adaptation is especially practical if the server is already occupied in playing a presentation into a virtual display space as in the presentation sharing application .

Where a presentation includes animation or transitions between slides the server is able to render these effects whereby each receiving device will receive a best effort rendering limited primarily by the bandwidth or refresh rate afforded by the connection. As a further advantage having the server perform re sampling magnification color conversion scrolling rotating panning and other graphical tasks ensures that the handling of the image is not dependent upon specific applications being present and properly configured on the small device. In many cases generic web browsers are used as a common denominator client supported by a wide variety of receiving devices.

Rendering attributes are profile associated for the user or device. These attributes can be changed dynamically by commands sent from the device to the server during the communications session. In this example these commands are carried in the form of so called SIP re INVITE messages or in Session Description Protocol SDP content sent therewith.

The device context modules communicate with corresponding transmitters XMTs to the hosts or devices. In this example the PDA can view the presentation file which is adapted for the processing power and storage capability of the PDA . Additionally the presentation file can be processed by the language assistance intercept such that esoteric terminologies acronyms and abbreviations can be explained or defined.

If the presentation file includes audio the presentation sharing application may provide play out and feed audio into a conference bridge or as a RTP stream to an instant communications client. Consequently even non PC connected users or users accessing the conference by phone will receive the sound program from the presentation without manual intervention from the conference presenter who is likely remote from the conferencing application server and has to provide presentation audio feed through a separate connection into a bridge or conferencing application. Thus the audio associated with the presentation is fed to a bridge or broadcaster which outputs to the conference participants.

In step textual information e.g. text string is received. Next it is determined whether the full translation feature is active per step . If this feature is activated then full translation is performed on the received text and the text string is replaced with the translated text as in steps and .

When a participant is moderately fluent in a given language language assistance offers additional information such as a brief definition for selected words that are less frequently encountered or likely to be confusing to the participant. The supplemental information can be presented automatically by the application or elicited by the participant by for example clicking on the problematic word or phrase as it appears in the text. The availability of this supplemental information is represented by highlighting bolding underlining or italicizing of the text for which help is available.

If the selective translation feature is active as determined in step then the text is translated in part as assistive or supplemental information without replacement of the text per step . This assistive information is then sent to the participant client as in step . The received text is highlighted in some fashion as in step to indicate to the user that supplemental information is available.

Returning to step if the selective translation feature is not active then the language assistance application defaults to translating acronyms or providing definitions. This mode of operation is extended to conferencing that does not necessarily entail differing languages but instead involves specialized terminology such as technical legal or medical terms. The received text is compared with a predetermined list of terms and their definitions and or a list of acronyms per step . Even in the context where parties are very familiar with a topic it is desirable to ensure a common understanding of certain terminology. In some cases operational definitions are set forth by a presenter to facilitate clear communications. As one advantage of the presently taught mode of operation the availability of definitions in this manner may avoid participants having to interrupt the presenter to ask for clarification especially in cases where a participant is late and misses the beginning of a conference when such operational definitions may have been introduced. Even in the case where a participant receives the initial presentation of a definition the participant may want to recall the information later during the presentation.

These lists can be third party provided definitions such as known dictionaries or technical dictionaries or terminologies and definitions supplied by the user organization. That is the language assistance application can incorporate special data repositories offered by third party suppliers. For example depending on subject matter it is useful to recognize key words phrases or acronyms and to insert information drawn from resources such as Newton s Telecom Dictionary Black s Law Dictionary or a medical encyclopedia. Such assistive or supplemental information is useful for example in the case where different engineering teams across the same organization use different terms for the same meaning. In step it is determined whether the received text matches any terms or acronyms on the list. If so the term is retrieved as supplemental information for the received text per step . If no match is found the received text is passed unchanged as in step .

The language assistance application advantageously improves the conference sessions by monitoring communications such as text messaging for the presence of passages that need to be translated or augmented with assistive or supplemental information. It is contemplated that assistive information provided in response to a passage in the presentation or conversation conference may include many types of helpful information including links or pointers to other sources of further information such as Uniform Resource Locators URLs of the type commonly used to indicate web sites.

It is contemplated that language assistance such as translation of text may occur within presented materials even without the presenter having to foresee this possibility and make special accommodations within the materials. For example where presentation slides e.g. MS Powerpoint are played into a presentation space it is possible to recognize text passages or calls to text rendering functions in the application or operating system and to perform translation of text or augmentation with added information as mentioned above. With this approach the invocation and behavior of these features are more subject to the preferences of the receiving party.

The processes of can be offered by a network service provider as a service whereby the users pay for each instance of use or in proportion to volume of use. The users can also or alternatively be billed for having the feature available on demand.

In addition to the language assistance service the conferencing system supports recording of the conference sessions as next described.

The annotation and bookmarking of specific points in a session are performed before during or after a conference interaction and are performed by a presenter a receiving participant or a third party. The annotations and bookmarks may selectively be available to all participants a selected subset of the participants or only to a single participant. In some instances a presenter or conference leader may mark specific time offsets into a conference and make the marker information conveniently available to all participants via a recording application .

In the exemplary scenario of a workstation of a participant includes a personal marking annotation application and a conference presentation application these applications receive a conference feed. Each participant is able to insert private markers and notes that are only available to the participant using the personal marking annotation application . The personal marking annotation application obtains time stamp information while the conference presentation application processes the media associated with the conference session. Information identifying the conference session marker time offset marker name and the actual annotation are stored in a marker file .

When the conference is later played back by the participant the private annotations and index markers applied by the participant are presented along with any shared annotations and markers that are generally available to all of the participants.

Annotations can be simple chapter headings or more extensive information. For example the annotations can be textual information or involve recorded audio. A participant engaged in an audio conference can momentarily mute the audio feed into a bridge to record or dictate a brief private audio annotation to be associated with that point in the conference in progress. In this example the workstation includes a microphone for providing audio annotation. Text annotation can be input using a keyboard . Also a mouse is utilized to select a marker location and type.

For parties who are participating by a conventional telephone station not shown with DTMF signaling and who want to provide verbal annotation during a conference a specific DTMF key sequence or some other in band or out of band signaling mechanism is used to cause the telephone s microphone to be momentarily decoupled from being input to the bridge so that the caller s voice are separately recorded. The verbal annotations are intercepted and recorded by the conferencing system and stored in a file to be later accessed or downloaded by the participant who recorded the annotation or by others if so authorized. To conclude the verbal annotation the caller may press another key sequence.

To prevent the DTMF tones or other in band signals used in this manner from interrupting the conference audio the conference bridge are designed with a modified gating behavior so that it recognizes and switches to a dominant signal only if the signal does not conform to the standard frequencies and amplitudes specified for DTMF tones. In the case of a bridge that mixes signals rather than switching on a dominant signal each audio input may undergo signal processing with a slight delay to detect and squelch such tones before they enter the audio program that is heard by all of the bridge participants.

It is noted that recording of a conference or collaboration may extend to textual transcription and meeting notes either of which are offered as a service by another party or commercial service provider.

With respect to the playback of the annotated conference session the workstation receives the recorded conference session which is stored remotely by the recording application . For example the service provider can elect to store recorded conferences in the database of . This session can be transmitted to the workstation in any number of media such as a streaming media or file transfer. In addition public markers and annotations if any are provided. The workstation can store the conference session file in a local cache for retrieval by a marker corrector logic . The logic generates a new media file with all the markers both public and personal and the public and personal annotations.

In some instances it is advantageous to integrate conferencing collaboration scheduling and instant communications with other applications. For example information maintained in a database application such as Microsoft Access Microsoft Active Directory X.500 Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP may be accessible to these communications oriented tools. This might enable a scenario wherein an account executive may with a single action initiate a communication session with a customer and have the appropriate cognizant engineer or salesman automatically included in the session. The engineer associated with the customer as well as the contact information for the engineer may be obtained from a table in the database. The database may be primarily maintained for reasons other than such communications but may nevertheless be tapped in this manner to facilitate communications sessions.

A wide variety of PC based and mainframe database applications could be accessed. In the case of MS Access the Jet database DLL functions may be called from Visual Basic or compiled executable code with appropriate link libraries. In general many methods of accessing or providing database contents are well known among those of ordinary skill.

In response to receiving an e mail corresponding to a work item step the process sends the work item to an addressee specified as one of the e mail recipients. In step it is determined whether the addressee is presently available. If the addressee is available based on the presence information conveyed by the conferencing system the work item is forwarded to the addressee per step .

If the addressee has established a delegation in a workflow tool such that inbound work items pertaining to a given project are routed to the delegate then communications traffic such as e mail messaging and meeting notifications pertaining to the project might also be channeled to the delegate. There may also be an overarching delegation from one person to another at an organizational level. Delegation may also be multi layered meaning different delegations may selectively apply to communications signature authority workflow etc. In the case where the addressee has an associated delegate who can act on behalf of the addressee the delegate s availability is determined per step . The work item is then sent to the delegate as in step if the delegate is available.

In step the process checks whether there are time frame requirements associated with the work item. The work item is sent to the addressee per step if no time frame requirements are imposed. Workflow processing is made presence aware by interaction with Presence and IM server or NS RS . When an item of work needs to go to any one of several people in a department and needs to be handled immediately presence information may contra indicate individuals who either are not registered as being available or who are known to be occupied elsewhere perhaps offsite or in a conference or meeting. The user s personal calendar is consulted in this determination as well.

In other instances presence information is obtained for a particular person to whom a given work item must be routed. If the person is not indicated as being available by conventional means e mail messaging a personal calendar may then be consulted to determine how soon the person might have unscheduled time to be able to address the work item. This is compared against the time frame allowed for processing the item and the relative importance of adhering to that time frame. If it is imperative that the item be handled within 24 hours and the addressee is out of the office for several days then a delegate is sought. If no delegation has been provided or the delegate is similarly unavailable then a more extensive procedure is undertaken to reach the addressee by an NS RS driven find me function involving phone paging etc. so that they may handle the item in some fashion.

If there are time frame requirements the calendar of the participant is accessed per step . Based upon the calendar information it is determined whether the addressee will be available within the time frame requirement step . If the schedule permits the work item is transmitted to the addressee as in step .

Depending upon implementation and circumstances the person may have options such as handling the item remotely delegating the task remotely or indicating that further action on the item by the workflow application is to be withheld for the time being. If the work is sufficiently important and the person who needs to handle the item cannot be contacted the matter is escalated to a supervisor to ensure that the work item is processed.

Specifically in the event that the addressee is not available within the time frame the process determines whether the work item is of sufficient priority to justify immediately notifying the addressee step by any available communication modes. If not the request can be escalated or an indication is provided that the request for handling the work item cannot be processed per step . In step a message is prepared for notifying the addressee that the work item has been received and that based on calendar or presence information that the work item may need to be handled before the addressee returns to the office or is otherwise made available. Per steps and if the addressee is successfully notified appropriate instructions are provided by the addressee to take the proper action on the work item.

The system of provides for a person contacted in this manner to instruct the workflow application as to how the item should be handled. This interaction may take place through two way paging push to talk wireless device telephone call to a VRU platform e mail instant messaging etc.

Another way that the workflow tool may operate is to allow the work item to be queued for a certain number of hours or days and to exercise progressively more aggressive measures resort to immediate find me function to reach the responsible party as a deadline draws nearer. The workflow system may even in a sense camp on to a user s presence indication and provide notification to the user the instant they become available in some fashion.

In some respects the information maintained by the RS and provided upon request by other functions is similar to information maintained in the Presence and IM server . Furthermore a wide variety of functional components and applications shown in may need to access such information or receive contact information that is subject to profiles and features operable within an RS or similar functionality. Accordingly RS according to an embodiment of the present invention may be modified to provide a form of redirect or location server which provides differentiated responses depending upon the type of information that is sought the type of communications modality to which a request pertains the type of server or application making the request or other circumstances pertaining to the request for information solicited from the RS.

In step a routing request is received. The request may originate from an NS or SIP proxy server e.g. NS RS . In addition the routing request may stem from any one of a number of other functions of the system of . For example the conference scheduling application may call upon a redirect server or location server in the course of dispatching invitations to various invitees to a given event. In response the redirect server or location server may provide a mixture of telephone paging instant messaging contact information or other addresses appropriate for other modes of communication. It should be particularly noted that such response to the conference scheduling application for a given user may well be different than the response that would be given to an NS or SIP proxy server at the same moment in time for the same user. Furthermore the response to the conference scheduling application and the response to the SIP proxy server may be affected by the same feature set or profile options configured for the user or may be handled by different features or profiles. It is also contemplated that the same feature or profile option may handle the two types of requests differently. For example even though both responses may include telephone contact information the complement of telephone contacts provided may be different for a live originator versus an automatic meeting notification application.

After the receiving of a routing request the source of the request is determined per step . Next in step it is determined whether the source of the request implies a particular form or type of request which may have an effect upon how the redirect server responds to the request. If the source of the request directly determines the nature of the request and how it is to be handled then the type of response required is determined as in step . Otherwise if the type of request cannot be inferred merely from the source of the request then the request may be parsed or analyzed to interpret the type of request that has been submitted per step . For example the process may differentiate a request from a SIP proxy seeking to establish a streaming media session versus a request from a calendar scheduling application which is trying to send out meeting notifications using both real time and non real time e mail paging communications. The formats of these requests may be quite similar and differentiated by the content of particular fields or header information in the requests. In some cases all requests serviced by the redirect server may be submitted in a generally consistent format such as a SIP message but may be differentiated by the presence of or values of specific headers in the SIP message. In other implementations requests to the redirect server may be received in a variety of formats to better accommodate the native capabilities and protocols used by the various requestors. Whereas a SIP proxy server may submit requests in a format similar to a SIP INVITE message other processes or applications may submit requests in the form of XML Java byte code arbitrarily formatted flat text data structures having particular formats and semantics telephony signaling messages or virtually any other format that can be used to achieve data communication as will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art.

Whether the request requires interpretation or such interpretation is unnecessary due to the source of the request in step a response appropriate for the request is prepared accounting for the formatting of the response as well as the complement of features profile and presence information. The response may also relate to the nature of the request for example whether the contact that is sought relates to establishing a real time telephony communication from a live originator as opposed to a meeting notification being sent out by an automated application. Thereafter the response is sent to the requestor as in step .

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for controlling cursor movement on the display .

According to one embodiment of the invention the processes of the conferencing system are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiment of the present invention. Thus embodiments of the present invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Model ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN or the global packet data communications network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an embodiment of the present invention through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the present invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

While the present invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the present invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims.

