---

title: End-to-end trusted communications infrastructure
abstract: A method of delivery of medical data via a trusted end-to-end communication link. The method comprises obtaining a measurement of a parameter of a human being by a first sensor, obtaining a biometric from the human being by a second sensor, receiving input from the first and second sensors by a secure application executing in a trusted security zone of a processor, whereby access to the input from the first and second sensors by applications executing in a normal partition of the processor is blocked, wherein the input from the first and second sensors comprises the measurement of the parameter and the biometric, and transmitting a message based on the input from the first and second sensors via a trusted end-to-end communication link to a medical data server, wherein an application that receives the message executes in a trusted security zone of the server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09282898&OS=09282898&RS=09282898
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 09282898
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120625
---
Electronic communications may carry a wide variety of content for example electronic mail medical records financial transactions and other confidential information. The electronic communications may travel for some of the communication end to end path over unsecured communication links where the content may be subject to tampering or intrusion. A variety of security measures have been applied to provide increased security and to raise the level of difficulty for nefarious actors attempting to access the confidential information.

In an embodiment a method of delivery of medical data via a trusted end to end communication link is disclosed. The method comprises obtaining a measurement of a parameter of a human being by a first sensor obtaining a biometric from the human being by a second sensor receiving input from the first and second sensors by a secure application executing in a trusted security zone of a processor whereby access to the input from the first and second sensors by applications executing in a normal partition of the processor is blocked wherein the input from the first and second sensors comprises the measurement of the parameter and the biometric and transmitting a message based on the input from the first and second sensors via a trusted end to end communication link to a medical data server wherein an application that receives the message executes in a trusted security zone of the server.

In an embodiment a method establishing a trusted end to end communication link is disclosed. The method comprises executing a communication application in a trusted security zone of a mobile access terminal sending a message from the mobile access terminal to a trusted communication application executing in a trusted security zone of a trusted enterprise edge node and sending the message from the trusted enterprise edge node to a trusted cloudlet executing on in a trusted security zone of a cloud based server.

In an embodiment a method of accessing medical diagnostic information is disclosed. The method comprises obtaining a measurement of a parameter of a human being from a first sensor and a biometric from the human being from a second sensor transmitting the measurement of the parameter and the biometric from the first and second sensors and receiving the measurement of the parameter and the biometric from the first and second sensors by a processor executing in a trusted security zone of a mobile access terminal whereby access to the measurement of the parameter and the biometric from the first and second sensors by applications executing in a normal execution mode is blocked. The method further comprises transmitting a first message based on the measurement of the parameter and the biometric by the mobile access terminal via a trusted end to end communication link to a medical data server wherein the trusted end to end communication link comprises a wireless communication link and receiving the first message by an application that executes in a trusted security zone of the medical data server. The method further comprises transmitting a second message based on the measurement of the parameter and the biometric by the medical data server via a trusted end to end communication link to a computer associated with a medical doctor and determining a medical care instruction for the human being based on the second message.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

In an embodiment a system and methods of providing a trusted end to end communication link are described. Trusted communication can be established between two devices each of which are executing their communication processing in a trusted security zone. As described further below trusted security zones reduce the ability of nefarious applications that may have infiltrated an electronic processing device to read from or write to memory to read from or write to input output devices or to read from or write to communication ports while the subject processor and or electronic processing device is executing in the trusted security zone. A communication application executing in a trusted security zone can have a high level of confidence that an untrusted application is not executing on the electronic processing device for example a mobile telephone at the same time and hence is prevented from interfering with or monitoring the activities of the communication application.

A trusted end to end communication link may be established by assuring that all communication applications in the end to end communication link that execute at the network layer and or higher layers execute in trusted security zones of the subject electronic processing devices for example a mobile phone a base transceiver station a media access gateway Internet routers switches server computers and the like. Prior to a first node transmitting a message over a trusted end to end communication link to a second node the first node may handshake with or otherwise communicate with the second node to pre arrange for the second node to handle the forthcoming message from the first node in the trusted security zone of the second node. This handshaking may comprise the first node validating the trusted status of the second node. Said in other words the handshaking may promote the first node evaluating whether the second node is configured to support the trusted end to end communication link.

As an electronic message is passed from one network node to the next each successive node in the trusted end to end communication link may validate the continuity of trust by examining and validating trust tokens that are accumulated by the message as it transits the trusted end to end communication link. The trust tokens are built and provided by the previous node and or previous nodes in the trusted end to end communication link. The trust tokens comprise indications or information about how the subject message was handled e.g. processed in a trusted security zone and may be viewed as a kind of birth certificate or pedigree of the message. Some or all of the trust token may be encrypted to avoid monitoring or tampering by untrusted nodes. Trust tokens may be created by a secure application such as the communication application that is executing in the trusted security zone to conduct communication over the trusted end to end communication link or by a base layer of functionality and or utilities provided by the trusted security zone itself.

For example a secure application executing in the trusted security zone of a mobile phone may send a message to a first trusted network node. The message may comprise content and a first trust token that encrypts information about the mobile phone that establishes that the message was generated by the trusted security zone of the mobile phone. The message may be verified to be trusted by the first trusted network node by examining the first trust token. The first trusted network node may then build a second trust token extend the message by the addition of the second trust token and transmit the extended message to a second trusted network node. The message may be verified to be trusted by the second trusted network node by examining the second trust token alone or by examining both the first and the second trust tokens. Through the remainder of the trusted end to end communication link every network node that handles the message at the network layer or higher layer handles the message in a trusted security zone of that node verifies the continuity of trust by examining one or more trust tokens builds an additional trust token extends the message with the additional trust token and sends the message on to the next trusted network node. At the endpoint of the trusted end to end communication link the message may be consumed by a secure application executing in a trusted security zone of the endpoint device after the continuity of trust of the message is verified. In an alternative embodiment rather than the message being accompanied by a plurality of trust tokens the message may be accompanied by a single trust token that may be extended and or appended to by each successive trusted network node.

In an embodiment the trusted end to end communication link may extend from a mobile access terminal to a base transceiver station BTS to an enterprise network via a virtual private network VPN connection. The continuity of trust of the connection between the mobile access terminal and the base transceiver station may not be explicitly verified because the air interface of the base transceiver station may be considered to be invulnerable to a hacking attack. The continuity of trust of the virtual private network connection into the enterprise network may not be explicitly verified because it likewise may be considered to be invulnerable to a hacking attack. If the trusted end to end communication link then extends out of the enterprise network through a firewall or through a multi protocol label switching MPLS port into the Internet and on to an endpoint device such as a secure cloudlet executing on a trusted security zone of a server computer operated in a cloud computing service trust may be provided as described above with the subject message being handled at the network layer or above layers only by applications executing in trusted security zones on the subject network nodes each trusted security zone verifying the continuity of trust of the received message and adding an additional trust token or extending the trust token when transmitting the message on to the next node. At the server computer in the cloud the secure cloudlet executes in a trusted security zone of the server computer and verifies the continuity of trust of the received message and or the trusted end to end communication link.

In an embodiment a monitor device may comprise a sensor and a biometric scanner or sensor. The sensor may measure or sample a bodily parameter of a human being such as a blood sugar level a blood thickness a blood pressure a bodily temperature a pulse rate a heart rhythm or another parameter. At the same time that the bodily parameter is being sampled the biometric scanner may capture a biometric signature of the human being whose bodily parameter is being measured. In an embodiment the monitor device is configured such that taking the sample of the bodily parameter of the human being is inseparably linked to capturing the biometric signature of the same human being. The biometric signature may be used to establish and or to corroborate the identity of the human being. The biometric signature may be a finger print a retinal scan a face scan a DNA signature or other. A secure application executing in a trusted security zone of a mobile access terminal or a computer reads the bodily parameter sample and the biometric signature from the monitor device.

The secure application may then package the bodily parameter sample and the biometric signature into a medical record content build a trusted token and send a message comprising the medical record content and the trusted token through a trusted end to end communication link to a corresponding trusted application executing in a trusted security zone of a medical data server. Alternatively the trusted token may be built by a base layer of functionality and or utilities provided by the trusted security zone itself. Sending the message over the trusted end to end communication link may assure that the medical record content is maintained in confidence for example in compliance with FDA and or HIPAA privacy regulations. In an embodiment medical records maintained by the medical data server may be accessed over a trusted end to end communication link to analyze the medical records for a variety of purposes for example to conduct treatment efficacy studies and or to diagnose and determine a treatment regime for a patient while assuring compliance with FDA and or HIPAA privacy regulations.

A trusted security zone provides chipsets with a hardware root of trust a secure execution environment for applications and secure access to peripherals. A hardware root of trust means the chipset should only execute programs intended by the device manufacturer or vendor and resists software and physical attacks and therefore remains trusted to provide the intended level of security. The chipset architecture is designed to promote a programmable environment that allows the confidentiality and integrity of assets to be protected from specific attacks. Trusted security zone capabilities are becoming features in both wireless and fixed hardware architecture designs. Providing the trusted security zone in the main mobile device chipset and protecting the hardware root of trust removes the need for separate secure hardware to authenticate the device or user. To ensure the integrity of the applications requiring trusted data such as a mobile financial services application the trusted security zone also provides the secure execution environment where only trusted applications can operate safe from attacks. Security is further promoted by restricting access of non trusted applications to peripherals such as data inputs and data outputs while a trusted application is running in the secure execution environment. In an embodiment the trusted security zone may be conceptualized as hardware assisted security.

A complete Trusted Execution Environment TEE may be implemented through the use of the trusted security zone hardware and software architecture. The Trusted Execution Environment is an execution environment that is parallel to the execution environment of the main mobile device operating system. The Trusted Execution Environment and or the trusted security zone may provide a base layer of functionality and or utilities for use of applications that may execute in the trusted security zone. For example in an embodiment trust tokens may be generated by the base layer of functionality and or utilities of the Trusted Execution Environment and or trusted security zone for use in trusted end to end communication links to document a continuity of trust of the communications. Through standardization of application programming interfaces APIs the Trusted Execution Environment becomes a place to which scalable deployment of secure services can be targeted. A device which has a chipset that has a Trusted Execution Environment on it may exist in a trusted services environment where devices in the trusted services environment are trusted and protected against attacks. The Trusted Execution Environment can be implemented on mobile phones and tablets as well as extending to other trusted devices such as personal computers servers sensors medical devices point of sale terminals industrial automation handheld terminals automotive etc.

The trusted security zone is implemented by partitioning all of the hardware and software resources of the mobile device into two partitions a secure partition and a normal partition. The secure partition may be implemented by a first physical processor and the normal partition may be implemented by a second physical processor. Alternatively the secure partition may be implemented by a first virtual processor and the normal partition may be implemented by a second virtual processor. Placing sensitive resources in the secure partition can protect against possible attacks on those resources. For example resources such as trusted software applications may run in the secure partition and have access to hardware peripherals such as a touchscreen or a secure location in memory. Less secure peripherals such as wireless radios may be disabled completely while the secure partition is being accessed while other peripherals may only be accessed from the secure partition. While the secure partition is being accessed through the Trusted Execution Environment the main mobile operating system in the normal partition is suspended and applications in the normal partition are prevented from accessing the secure peripherals and data. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from breaking the trust of the device.

The trusted security zone is implemented by partitioning the hardware and software resources to exist in a secure subsystem which is not accessible to components outside the secure subsystem. The trusted security zone is built into the processor architecture at the time of manufacture through hardware logic present in the trusted security zone which enables a perimeter boundary between the secure partition and the normal partition. The trusted security zone may only be manipulated by those with the proper credential and in an embodiment may not be added to the chip after it is manufactured. Software architecture to support the secure partition may be provided through a dedicated secure kernel running trusted applications. Trusted applications are independent secure applications which can be accessed by normal applications through an application programming interface in the Trusted Execution Environment on a chipset that utilizes the trusted security zone.

In an embodiment the normal partition applications run on a first virtual processor and the secure partition applications run on a second virtual processor. Both virtual processors may run on a single physical processor executing in a time sliced fashion removing the need for a dedicated physical security processor. Time sliced execution comprises switching contexts between the two virtual processors to share processor resources based on tightly controlled mechanisms such as secure software instructions or hardware exceptions. The context of the currently running virtual processor is saved the context of the virtual processor being switched to is restored and processing is restarted in the restored virtual processor. Time sliced execution protects the trusted security zone by stopping the execution of the normal partition while the secure partition is executing.

The two virtual processors context switch via a processor mode called monitor mode when changing the currently running virtual processor. The mechanisms by which the processor can enter monitor mode from the normal partition are tightly controlled. The entry to monitor mode can be triggered by software executing a dedicated instruction the Secure Monitor Call SMC instruction or by a subset of the hardware exception mechanisms such as hardware interrupts which can be configured to cause the processor to switch into monitor mode. The software that executes within monitor mode then saves the context of the running virtual processor and switches to the secure virtual processor.

The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system that is not accessible to the device users. For security purposes the trusted security zone is not open to users for installing applications which means users do not have access to install applications in the trusted security zone. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from executing powerful instructions reserved to the trusted security zone and thus preserves the trust of the device. The security of the system is achieved at least in part by partitioning the hardware and software resources of the mobile phone so they exist in one of two partitions the secure partition for the security subsystem and the normal partition for everything else. Placing the trusted security zone in the secure partition and restricting access from the normal partition protects against software and basic hardware attacks. Hardware logic ensures that no secure partition resources can be accessed by the normal partition components or applications. A dedicated secure partition operating system runs in a virtual processor separate from the normal partition operating system that likewise executes in its own virtual processor. Users may install applications on the mobile device which may execute in the normal partition operating system described above. The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system for the secure partition that is installed by the mobile device manufacturer or vendor and users are not able to install new applications in or alter the contents of the trusted security zone.

Turning now to a first system for providing trusted end to end communication links is described. In an embodiment the system comprises a mobile access terminal MAT a base transceiver station BTS a plurality of network nodes and a secure cloudlet executing in a trusted security zone of a server computer located in a cloud computing facility . The MAT may be any of a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a media player a laptop computer a tablet computer a notepad computer or other portable communication device. The network nodes may comprise a first network node a second network node and a third network node . It is understood that the system may comprise any number of network nodes . The network nodes may be any of network routers network switches media access gateways MAGs and other data communication networking equipment. The network nodes may be abstracted as a network cloud or as a communication infrastructure. While the description below refers to the MAT it is understood that at least some of the teachings may be implemented by a desktop computer or other substantially stationary computer that is coupled to the network nodes by a wired connection instead of by a wireless connection.

The base transceiver station may provide a wireless communication link to the MAT providing edge access from the MAT to the network nodes for example to the first network node . The base transceiver station may provide a wireless communication link according to one or more of a code division multiple access CDMA a global system for mobile communications GSM a long evolution LTE a worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX or other wireless communication protocol.

In an embodiment the MAT comprises a radio transceiver a trusted security zone and a secure application . For example the radio transceiver may comprise a cellular communication transceiver that is operable to provide a wireless communication link according to one or more of a code division multiple access CDMA a global system for mobile communications GSM a long term evolution LTE a worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX or other wireless communication protocol. The MAT may comprise other radio transceivers in addition to the radio transceiver for example a near field communication NFC radio transceiver a Bluetooth radio transceiver a WiFi radio transceiver or other short range radio transceiver.

As described above the trusted security zone may be provided by a physically separate processor or by a virtual processor. The secure application may be any of a variety of applications that process and or transmit confidential information. The confidential information may comprise sensitive business documents such as electronic mail marketing literature business plans client lists addresses employee data intellectual property documents and the like. The confidential information may comprise personal medical records or medical data that are subject to privacy requirements enforced by government regulatory bodies or commercial standards. The confidential information may comprise financial information such as account numbers authentication identities account balance information and the like.

When processing and or transmitting the confidential information the secure application executes at least partially in the trusted security zone . It is a characteristic or feature of the trusted security zone as described more fully above that when the secure application executes in the trusted security zone untrusted applications are prevented from executing and or accessing trusted memory partitions and or accessing the display or input devices of the MAT thereby reducing the opportunity for malware that may have infiltrated the MAT to corrupt or to monitor the confidential information. When the confidential information is transmitted by the secure application via a trusted end to end communication link to the secure cloudlet the trusted security zone builds a message that comprises the confidential information which may be referred to as a content portion or a content of the message and a first trust token. In some contexts the message may be said to incorporate or to encapsulate the content portion and the first trust token. The first trust token comprises information that may be used by another trusted security zone to verify a trust level of the message. The first trust token may comprise indications or information about how the message was handled e.g. processed in the trusted security zone and may be viewed as a kind of birth certificate or pedigree of the message. Some or all of the trust token may be encrypted to avoid monitoring or tampering by untrusted nodes. In some contexts the verification of the trust level of the message by analyzing the trust token or a plurality of trust tokens incorporated in encapsulated in or adjoined to a message may be referred to as verifying a continuity of trust of the message and or verifying a continuity of trust of at least a portion of the trusted end to end communication link.

Each of the network nodes comprises a trusted security zone . In some contexts the network nodes may be referred to as trusted network nodes or trusted nodes. The first network node comprises a first trusted security zone the second network node comprises a second trusted security zone and the third network node comprises a third trusted security zone . In an embodiment the network nodes may be dedicated solely to providing trusted end to end communication links and may carry no untrusted message traffic. Alternatively the network nodes may carry both trusted and untrusted message traffic suspending handling of all untrusted message traffic when handling a trusted message. In an embodiment communication devices that do not process the message at the network layer of the open system interconnect OSI model or above are assumed to be trusted and are not burdened with verifying the continuity of trust of the message before forwarding the message on along the trusted end to end communication link.

The Internet protocol is an example of a network layer process and the transfer control protocol TCP is an example of a process that processes messages at a layer above the network layer. Data communication hubs and the base transceiver station are examples of communication devices or nodes that do not process messages at the network layer or above. In another embodiment however lower layer communication devices perform some verification of the continuity of trust of the message.

In an embodiment the processing of a message at one network node at each of a plurality of communication layers at or above the network layer is performed by one or more applications executing at least in part in the trusted security zone of the subject network node . For example if the first network node processes the message at both the IP layer and at the UDP layer the processing at the IP layer is conducted by an application executing at least in part in the trusted security zone and the processing of the message at the UDP layer is conducted by an application executing at least in part in the trusted security zone . In an embodiment a trusted token may be generated and associated with the message by an application processing the message at a first communication layer and a second trusted token may be generated and associated with the message by an application processing the message at a second communication layer. For example a first application processing the message at the IP communication layer and executing at least in part in the trusted security zone may generate a first trust token and associate it with the message and a second application processing the message at the UDP communication layer and executing at least in part in the trusted security zone may generate a second trust token and associate it with the message. In an embodiment the first and second trust tokens may be generated by a base layer of functionality and or utilities of the trusted security zone that is invoked by the first and second applications.

When the message is received by the network node the message is identified as a message to be processed by the trusted security zone for example the message may be identified as a trusted message by a field of the message or by the presence of a trust token in the message. The message is analyzed by the trusted security zone to determine the trust level of the message for example by examining one or more trust tokens that may be encapsulated in the message or associated with the message. If the trust level of the message is sufficient the network node processes the message builds a new trust token encapsulates the new trust token into the message and sends the message on to the next network node for handling. The message processing trust token creation and message transmitting are performed in the trusted security zone of the network node . The new trust token comprises information that may be used by another trusted security zone to verify the trust level of the message for example to verity that the subject network node processed the message in such a manner as to maintain trust continuity of the message.

When the message has transited the trusted end to end communication link and is received by the trusted security zone of the server located in the cloud computing facility the trust level of the message is analyzed to determine that the continuity of trust of the message has been maintained and that the trust level of the message is sufficient. In an embodiment the trust level may be a figure of merit that varies over a range of numerical values for example from 0 to 1 from 0 to 10 from 1 to 10 from 0 to 100 from 1 to 100 or over some other numerical range. The numerical values may be integer values or decimal values. Alternatively the trust level may be a binary value either trusted or untrusted. In another embodiment some other scale of trust level may be implemented. If the trust level of the message is sufficient the message is provided to the secure cloudlet executing in the trusted security zone and the secure cloudlet consumes the message. For example the secure cloudlet may process the message in any of a variety of ways including storing the content of the message in a data store analyzing the content aggregating the content with other previously received content and or other processing.

The communication infrastructure and processing method described above can be said to provide a trusted end to end communication link because processing of the message at the network layer and above is performed by applications executing at least in part in a trusted security zone that first verifies the continuity of trust of the message before processing it. This infrastructure and processing method promotes a communication end point for example the secure cloudlet being able to have a high level of confidence that the content of the message has not been intercepted and copied and or tampered with.

Turning now to an example of message propagation through the trusted end to end communication link is described. The MAT builds a first message comprising a content and a first trust token . For example the trusted security zone and or the secure application executing in the trusted security zone creates the content builds the first trust token and composes the first message from the content and the first trust token . As described above trust tokens may comprise information that may be used by another trusted security zone to verify the trust level of the message. Trust tokens may be analogized to a birth certificate and or a pedigree. The trust token may comprise encrypted data and or identity codes that can be decrypted by a trusted security zone to assure that the sending network element has maintained the continuity of trust of the message. The identity codes may identify a network node or other communication device in the path of the trusted end to end communication link. The MAT and or the trusted security zone transmits the first message to the first node

The first node processes the first message in the first trusted security zone by analyzing the first message to verify the continuity of trust of the first message . For example the first trusted security zone or a secure communication application executing in the first trusted security zone reads and validates the first trust token which may be referred to as verifying the continuity of trust of the first message . In an embodiment the first trusted security zone may determine a trust level of the first message . If the first message has an acceptable trust level the first trusted security zone builds a second trust token and composes a second message from the content the first trust token and the second trust token . Alternatively the second message may not comprise the first trust token and the second trust token may comprise information about the level of trust determined by the first trusted security zone when verifying the continuity of trust of the first message . The first network node and or the first trusted security zone transmits the second message to the second network node

The second network node processes the second message in the second trusted security zone by analyzing the second message to verify the continuity of trust of the second message builds a third trust token and builds a third message comprising the first trust token the second trust token and the third trust token . Alternatively only the third trust token is encapsulated in the third message and information about the level of trust associated with the first message determined by the first network node and the level of trust associated with the second message determined by the second network node is included in the third trust token . The second network node and or the second trusted security zone transmits the third message to the third network node

The third network node processes the third message builds a fourth message including a fourth trust token in a similar fashion and transmits the fourth message to the trusted security zone and or the secure cloudlet . While the propagation of the content through the trusted end to end communication link has been described by speaking of a plurality of different but related messages a first message a second message a third message and a fourth message according to a different manner of speaking or a different abstraction it could be said that one message propagates through the trusted end to end communication link where the one message is extended or progressively composed in its transit of the link. In an embodiment rather than a trust token or trust tokens being encapsulated in the messages the trust token and or trust tokens may be linked to the messages such as being linked by being contained within a single payload of an IP packet.

Each of the messages and may be encapsulated as a payload of a data packet for example as a payload of an IP packet or an IP datagram. Depending on the size of the content and the one or more trust tokens the content may be segmented into multiple segments and each segment sent separately in a message as described above. It is understood that the trusted end to end communication link may comprise any number of network nodes and that any number of corresponding messages may be built in communicating the content from the MAT to the secure cloudlet .

Turning now to and a monitor and a second system for providing trusted end to end communication links is described. In an embodiment the monitor comprises a biometric sensor and a human body parameter sensor . The trusted network nodes may be abstracted to be parts of a network . Network may comprise additional nodes and or communication devices and may comprise one or more public networks private networks or a combination thereof. The body parameter sensor may measure or sample a bodily parameter of a human being such as a blood sugar level a blood thickness a blood pressure a bodily temperature a blood oxygen saturation level a pulse rate a heart rhythm or another bodily parameter. In some contexts the body parameter sensor may be referred to as a transducer or as comprising a transducer. The body parameter sensor may capture only raw data values that may not be directly related to a standard measurement value and the raw data values may be processed by another device for example processed by the secure application executing in the trusted security zone of the MAT to represent the value of the sensed parameter in standard or customary units. For example the secure application may process blood thickness raw data received from the monitor and or the body parameter sensor to determine an international normalized ratio INR value of blood thickness based on the raw data. Alternatively the body parameter sensor and or the monitor may process the raw data and output these bodily parameter values in standard units.

The biometric sensor captures a biometric signature of the human being for example a finger print a retinal scan a face scan a DNA signature or other biometric signature. In some contexts the biometric sensor may be referred to as a biometric scanner. In an embodiment the biometric sensor and the body parameter sensor may capture a biometric signature and a body parameter value substantially concurrently. In an embodiment the monitor may be configured such that the process of sensing the body parameter value by the body parameter sensor and of capturing the biometric signature by the biometric sensor are inseparable processes. For example in an embodiment the body parameter sensor and the biometric sensor are integrated into a single package such as a pulse oximeter clamp that also captures a finger print biometric. As is known by those skilled in the art a standard oximeter clamp may be clamped to a finger to read both a pulse rate and a blood oxygen saturation percentage. The biometric signature may be associated with the body parameter value to identify and or corroborate the identity of the human being .

The monitor may be communicatively coupled to the MAT for example via a wired communication link or via a short range wireless communication link such as NFC Bluetooth or WiFi wireless links. The monitor transmits the body parameter value and the biometric signature to the secure application executing in the trusted security zone of the MAT . The communication from the monitor to the MAT is assumed to be trusted and or substantially invulnerable to hacking. The secure application may produce a medical record content that comprises the body parameter value and the biometric signature. The biometric signature may be encoded and or compressed in one or more ways and may be encapsulated in the medical record content in the form of a pleogram. In an embodiment the medical record content may comprise additional supporting information such as a date and a time of day. The secure application may create a message comprising the medical record content and a trust token and send the message over a trusted end to end communication link to a secure application executing in a trusted security zone of a medical data server . The propagation of the message over the trusted end to end communication link may be substantially similarly to the process described above.

The secure application may provide for storing the medical record content in a data store coupled to the medical data server . The secure application or a different secure application executing in the trust zone of the medical data server may process a plurality of medical record contents of a single human being to track a chronic condition of the human . Alternatively the secure application may process a plurality of medical record contents associated with a plurality of selected humans for example to calculate an efficacy of a medical treatment or drug.

In an embodiment a secure application executing in a trusted security zone of a medical data analyzer requests medical record contents from the medical data server and the medical data server sends the requested medical record contents via a trusted end to end communication link as described above. The medical records may be said to be verifiably confidential medical records. In some circumstances regulatory agencies such as the FDA may inspect the use and communication of medical records to confirm the compliance with medical record privacy regulations. The secure application may analyze the medical record contents to diagnose a condition of the human and or to recommend a medical treatment program for the human. A medical doctor using the medical data analyzer for example may write a prescription for the human being and send the prescription to a pharmacy that is customarily used by the human being . The secure application may analyze medical records of a plurality of humans to determine an efficacy of a medical treatment or drug.

Turning now to a method is described. At block a measurement of a parameter of a human being is obtained by a first sensor and a biometric of the human being is obtained by a second sensor. For example a parameter of a human being is obtained by the body parameter sensor and a biometric signature of the human being is obtained by the biometric sensor as described above. At block input from the sensors is received by a secure application executing in a trusted security zone of a processor whereby access to the input from the sensors by applications executing in a normal partition of the processor is blocked wherein the input from the sensors comprise the measurement of the parameter of the human being and the biometric of the human being. At block a message based on the input from the sensors is transmitted via a trusted end to end communication link to a medical data server wherein an application that receives the message executes in a trusted security zone of the server. The message may be substantially similar to the first message described above and may comprise a content portion and one or more trust tokens.

Turning now to a method is described. At block a communication application is executed in a trusted security zone of a mobile access terminal. For example the secure application executes in the trusted security zone of the MAT as described above. At block a message is sent from the mobile access terminal to a trusted communication application executing in a trusted security zone of a trusted enterprise edge node. For example the secure application and or the trusted security zone builds the message comprising the content and the trust token and sends the message to the first network node . In an embodiment the message may be sent from the MAT to an enterprise communication network via a virtual private network VPN session. The message may be directed to a device or service outside the enterprise communication network and may then propagate in the external Internet. The first network node may be an enterprise firewall or a multi protocol label switching port of a router. Thus in this embodiment the enterprise network edge may have a trusted security zone to support a trusted end to end communication link from the enterprise network to external devices and or external functionalities. At block the message is sent from the trusted enterprise edge node to a trusted cloudlet executing on a trusted security zone of a cloud based server according to the processes for providing continuity of trust in the propagation of the message described above.

Turning now to a method is described. At block a measurement of a parameter of a human being is obtained by a first sensor and a biometric from the human being is obtained by a second sensor. For example the body parameter sensor obtains a parameter value and the biometric sensor obtains a biometric signature from the human . At block the measurement of the parameter and the biometric signature is transmitted from the sensors for example the parameter value and the biometric signature are transmitted by the monitor to the MAT . At block the measurement of the parameter and the biometric signature are received by a processor executing in a trusted security zone of a mobile access terminal from the sensors whereby access to the measurement of the parameter and the biometric from the sensors by applications executing in a normal execution mode is blocked. For example the parameter and the biometric signature are received by the secure application executing in the trusted security zone of the MAT .

At block a first message is transmitted based on the measurement of the parameter and the biometric by the mobile access terminal via an trusted end to end communication link to a medical data server wherein the trusted end to end communication link comprises a wireless communication link. For example the first message is the first message and the wireless communication link is established between the radio transceiver and the base transceiver station .

At block the first message is received by an application that executes in a trusted security zone of the medical data server. At block a second message based on the measurement of the parameter and the biometric is transmitted by the medical data server via an end to end trusted communication link to a computer associated with a medical doctor. At block a medical care instruction for the human being is determined based on the second message. For example a medical doctor using the medical data analyzer diagnoses a condition or status of the human and prescribes a medication to treat the condition or status.

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD . The GPS receiver is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable storage media and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 4generation 5generation and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data structures executable instructions and other computer usable program code. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . Alternatively the processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures by remotely accessing the computer program product for example by downloading the executable instructions and or data structures from a remote server through the network connectivity devices . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

In some contexts the secondary storage the ROM and the RAM may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium or a computer readable storage media. A dynamic RAM embodiment of the RAM likewise may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power and is operated in accordance with its design for example during a period of time during which the computer is turned on and operational the dynamic RAM stores information that is written to it. Similarly the processor may comprise an internal RAM an internal ROM a cache memory and or other internal non transitory storage blocks sections or components that may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

