---

title: Glovebox air intake emergency safety shutoff
abstract: A glovebox air intake emergency safety shutoff system includes a glovebox; a first manual valve operatively connected to the glovebox, wherein the first manual valve articulates between an open position and a closed position; an automatic valve operatively connected to the manual valve, wherein the automatic valve articulates between an open position and a closed position; an air intake component that inputs air into the glovebox; an air exhaust component that discharges air from the glovebox; and a pressure monitor that detects a level of pressure in the glovebox. The pressure monitor includes a pressure sensor that measures a pressure in the glovebox and transmits a signal associated with the measured pressure; and a pressure controller that receives the signal and responds according to the measured pressure. The pressure controller operatively closes the automatic valve upon the measured pressure increasing above a predetermined limit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08667841&OS=08667841&RS=08667841
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08667841
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120410
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 493 714 filed on Jun. 6 2011 the contents of which in its entirety is herein incorporated by reference.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government.

The embodiments herein generally relate to emergency control mechanisms and more particularly to an emergency safety shutoff system for a glovebox air intake.

Environmental accidents toxic chemical spills and testing to support verification inspections are examples of situations where chemical and biological testing may be required. Gloveboxes are used for such testing. The availability of safe reliable and efficient containment vessels such as gloveboxes and fume hoods for conducting environmental tests help to protect the investigators and preserve the evidentiary value of the collected materials and the on site tests.

The glovebox serves as engineering control and primary protection during a hazardous test operation. During the test in the event of pressure loss due to power failure or exhaust blower malfunction there is a potential for containment loss through the air intake valve which would allow for hazardous materials to enter into the operators breathing zone. It is desirable to eliminate the potential hazard with an improved glovebox system.

In view of the foregoing an embodiment herein provides a glovebox air intake emergency safety shutoff system comprising a first manual valve configured to operatively connect to a glovebox wherein the first manual valve articulates between an open position and a closed position an automatic valve operatively connected to the manual valve wherein the automatic valve articulates between an open position and a closed position an air intake component configured to input air into the glovebox an air exhaust component configured to discharge air from the glovebox and a pressure monitor configured to detect a level of pressure in the glovebox. The pressure monitor may comprise a pressure sensor configured to measure a pressure in the glovebox and transmit a signal associated with the measured pressure and a pressure controller that receives the signal and responds according to the measured pressure. The pressure controller may operatively close the automatic valve upon the measured pressure increasing above a predetermined limit. The pressure controller may use an external device to actuate the automatic valve.

The external device may comprise any of a relay and a solenoid. The automatic valve may close pneumatically or electrically. The automatic valve may open upon the measured pressure reaching the predetermined limit. The system may further comprise an airlock component configured to operatively connect to the glovebox. The system may further comprise a plurality of pipes configured to operatively connect each of the air intake component and the air exhaust component to any of the glovebox and the airlock component. The system may further comprise an air inlet plenum operatively connected to the air intake component and an air exhaust plenum operatively connected to the air exhaust component. The system may further comprise a second manual valve operatively connected to the air exhaust component. The system may further comprise a third manual valve operatively connected to the air inlet plenum and a fourth manual valve operatively connected to the air exhaust plenum.

Another embodiment provides an apparatus comprising a negative pressurized glovebox a support structure that holds the glovebox an air inlet plenum operatively connected to the glovebox a first manual valve operatively connected to the air inlet plenum wherein the first manual valve articulates between an open position and a closed position an automatic valve operatively connected to the manual valve wherein the automatic valve articulates between an open position and a closed position an air intake component that inputs air into the negative pressurized glovebox an air exhaust component that discharges air from the negative pressurized glovebox a pressure sensor that measures a pressure in the glovebox and transmits a signal associated with the measured pressure a pressure controller that receives the signal and responds according to the measured pressure and an external device operatively connected to the pressure controller wherein the external device operatively closes the automatic valve upon the measured pressure increasing above a predetermined limit.

The external device may comprise any of a relay and a solenoid. The external device may close the automatic valve pneumatically or electrically. The external device may open the automatic valve upon the measured pressure reaching the predetermined limit. The apparatus may further comprise an airlock component operatively connected to the glovebox. The apparatus may further comprise a plurality of pipes operatively connecting each of the air intake component and the air exhaust component to any of the glovebox and the airlock component. The apparatus may further comprise an air exhaust plenum operatively connected to the glovebox and the air exhaust component wherein the air inlet plenum is operatively connected to the air intake component. The apparatus may further comprise a third manual valve operatively connected to the air inlet plenum and a fourth manual valve operatively connected to the air exhaust plenum.

These and other aspects of the embodiments herein will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments herein without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments herein include all such modifications.

The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments herein may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments herein. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments herein.

The embodiments herein provide an emergency safety shutoff system for a glovebox air intake. The system allows for complete containment in the event of glovebox pressure loss. This enhances safety for the operator when working with dangerous materials. Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to where similar reference characters denote corresponding features consistently throughout the figures there are shown preferred embodiments.

As mentioned the glovebox serves as engineering control and primary protection during a hazardous test operation. During the test in the event of pressure loss due to power failure or exhaust blower malfunction there is a potential for containment loss through the air intake valve which would allow for hazardous materials to enter into the operators breathing zone. To eliminate the potential hazard the glovebox is equipped with a pressure monitor and an automatic valve. The pressure monitor continuously monitors glovebox pressure and if the pressure drops below the set limit the automatically actuated valve mounted to the air intake immediately closes thereby isolating the glovebox environment and preventing the potential release of hazardous materials.

The apparatus further includes a valve assembly and an air intake component supported by a support member and operatively connected to an air inlet plenum . Pipe is connected to air inlet plenum and the associated valve is used to attach an external decontaminating system not shown to glovebox . A high efficiency particulate air HEPA filter is attached to air inlet plenum that allows connection to the interior of the glovebox wherein all air entering at air intake component is HEPA filtered before entering the glovebox . A pipe connects the air inlet plenum to the airlock component . A manual valve controls the flow of air through the air intake component . An exhaust component is operatively connected to an air exhaust plenum . Pipe is connected to air exhaust plenum and the associated valve is used to attach an external decontaminating system not shown to glovebox . A HEPA filter is attached to air exhaust plenum that allows connection to the interior of glovebox wherein all air exiting at air exhaust component is HEPA filtered before exiting the glovebox . A pipe connects the air exhaust plenum to the airlock component . A manual valve controls the flow of air through the exhaust component . Pipes and have an in line NEPA filter not shown whereby all air entering the airlock component through pipe is HEPA filtered and all air exiting the airlock component is HEPA filtered prior to entering plenum .

A control panel is positioned adjacent to the airlock component and comprises a pressure monitor and a pressure controller further shown in that is operatively connected to the glovebox and uses a pressure sensor further shown in to measure the pressure inside the glovebox . A valve assembly is positioned on a support member and further supports an automatic actuator . The automatic actuator opens closes the valve assembly automatically either pneumatically or electrically.

The pressure sensor measures the pressure in the glovebox and sends a signal of the pressure in glovebox to the pressure controller . The pressure monitor displays the pressure readings. The pressure controller responds according to the pressure signal. If the pressure reaches the setpoint the pressure controller actuates an external device such as relay or solenoid which in turn actuates the automatic actuator either pneumatically or electrically to close the valve assembly . Once pressure is restored in the glovebox the automatic actuator returns to its original position prior to closure. The automatic valve assembly is normally closed but during operation is open and is controlled by the pressure controller and is closed in case the pressure in the glovebox increases above the set limit. The automated valve assembly is configured to respond quickly and the pressure within the glovebox is continuously monitored such that the automatic actuator activates and the valve assembly closes when the pressure increases above the set limit. An example of an automatic valve which could be used in accordance with the embodiments herein is a Top Line SRS 50 3 Bio Pro Forged Automated Diaphragm Valve available from Top Line Process Equipment Pennsylvania USA.

Conventionally the air intake for the glovebox is open to the room and can be shut off with the manual valve . However the time of response is critical when working with very hazardous materials and is completely dependent on the operator s response time. The introduction of the automatic actuator eliminates the risk associated with the operation of shutting down the glovebox in the event of pressure loss.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

