---

title: Confounder generation in knowledge-based authentication for an enterprise
abstract: An improved technique generates confounders for KBA questions from personal information management (PIM) data created from within an organization. An enterprise KBA (eKBA) server collects PIM data such as email data for a particular member of the organization. For email data, the eKBA server extracts facts from the headers of emails and generates queries having a corresponding correct answer from a first subset of the facts. Moreover, the eKBA server extracts a set of confounders from a second subset of the facts. The eKBA server then forms a multiple-choice KBA question from the query, the corresponding correct answer, and selected confounders.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09177127&OS=09177127&RS=09177127
owner: EMC Corporation
number: 09177127
owner_city: Hopkinton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121231
---
Conventional knowledge based authentication KBA involves deriving questions regarding a particular user from facts in a publicly available database and asking that user one or more of the derived questions to verify the authenticity of the user. For example conventional KBA accesses facts such as addresses mortgage payments and driving records from a LexisNexis server a credit bureau or a motor vehicle registry.

Suppose that a user wishes to make a purchase at a store using a store account. In conventional KBA the store may ask the user a set of questions derived from a set of facts concerning the user in order to complete the purchase. Such questions may include where did you live in September 1998 what is your current mortgage payment to within 20 dollars and what make and model car did you drive in February 2001 . If the user answers the questions correctly the store completes the purchase. On the other hand if the user answers questions incorrectly the store may take remedial steps to verify the authenticity of the user. For example the store may ask for further proof of identity such as a driver s license.

In many scenarios the questions used in conventional KBA take the form of multiple choice questions. Such multiple choice questions include a correct choice and a set of wrong choices. In conventional KBA software packages such as IBM Smart Analytics System provides the set of wrong choices for a KBA question from data in the publicly available database.

Unfortunately there are deficiencies with the above described conventional KBA approach. For example the nature of the confounders drawn from publicly available databases by the above mentioned third party software may not be appropriate for authenticating members of an organization having limited numbers. For example for questions about the names of people having some relation to a user in question such third party software is typically trained to generate incorrect answers based on ethnicity. Along these lines consider a user in Israel being asked about a roommate s name. The third party software would likely present Israeli names as non trivial incorrect answers. Nevertheless within an organization that is a multinational corporation where users of all ethnicities interact on a regular basis such incorrect answers may not provide the most effective authentication results.

Furthermore the cost of third party software packages that generate incorrect answers to KBA questions is typically very high. Further the publicly available databases are very large and require vast resources to manage. For example consider a medium size organization of about 2000 people that wishes to authenticate a person claiming to be a member of that organization. While the publicly available databases store data for potentially millions of people data for incorrect answers to KBA questions need only be drawn from that pool of 2000 people in order to provide effective authentication for those 2000 people. Software having such limited scope would necessarily be able to generate better incorrect answers for someone wishing to authenticate as one of those 2000 people at a lower cost and complexity.

Moreover facts obtained from a publicly available database may be known by members of the public. Consequently incorrect answers to KBA questions derived from such facts may be insecure because an imposter may have examined facts relevant to a particular legitimate user.

In contrast to conventional KBA which uses expensive third party software to derive potentially ineffectual incorrect answers to KBA questions from insecure publicly available databases an improved technique generates confounders for KBA questions from personal information management PIM data created from within an organization. An enterprise KBA eKBA server collects PIM data such as email data for a particular member of the organization. For email data the eKBA server extracts facts from the headers of emails and generates queries having a corresponding correct answer from a first subset of the facts. Moreover the eKBA server extracts a set of confounders from a second subset of the facts. The eKBA server then forms a multiple choice KBA question from the query the corresponding correct answer and selected confounders.

Advantageously the improved technique provides an inexpensive yet secure eKBA system for generating confounders for multiple choice KBA questions for use inside of an organization. The eKBA system is inexpensive because it is designed to work with a limited data set that pertaining to email data inside of an organization. The eKBA system is secure for the same reason. Further the system generates confounders based on peer circles deduced by the eKBA system from email headers rather than ethnicity which can lead to ineffective confounders.

One embodiment of the improved technique is directed to a method of generating a knowledge based authentication KBA question configured to be provided to a person requesting authentication as a user that is a member of an organization the KBA question including a query a correct answer corresponding to the query and a set of incorrect answers corresponding to the query. The method includes producing personal information management PIM data from communications involving members of the organization PIM data from communications involving a particular member of the organization including a reference to the particular member. The method also includes obtaining a set of user facts from the PIM data that includes a reference to the user. The method further includes generating a set of confounders from user facts of the set of user facts. The method further includes selecting incorrect answers from the set of confounders to form the set of incorrect answers corresponding to the query of the KBA question.

Additionally some embodiments of the improved technique are directed to a system constructed and arranged to. The system includes a network interface memory and a controller including controlling circuitry constructed and arranged to carry out the method of generating a knowledge based authentication KBA question configured to be provided to a person requesting authentication as a user that is a member of an organization.

Furthermore some embodiments of the improved technique are directed to a computer program product having a non transitory computer readable storage medium which stores code including a set of instructions to carry the method of generating a knowledge based authentication KBA question configured to be provided to a person requesting authentication as a user that is a member of an organization.

An improved technique generates confounders for KBA questions from personal information management PIM data created from within an organization. An enterprise KBA eKBA server collects PIM data such as email data for a particular member of the organization. For email data the eKBA server extracts facts from the headers of emails and generates queries having a corresponding correct answer from a first subset of the facts. Moreover the eKBA server extracts a set of confounders from a second subset of the facts. The eKBA server then forms a multiple choice KBA question from the query the corresponding correct answer and selected confounders.

Advantageously the improved technique provides an inexpensive yet secure eKBA system for generating confounders for multiple choice KBA questions for use inside of an organization. The eKBA system is inexpensive because it is designed to work with a limited data set that pertaining to email data inside of an organization. The eKBA system is secure for the same reason. Further the system generates confounders based on peer circles deduced by the eKBA system from email headers rather than ethnicity which can lead to ineffective confounders.

Communication medium provides network connections between eKBA system PIM server enterprise app server and authentication terminal . Communications medium may implement a variety of protocols such as TCP IP UDP ATM Ethernet Fibre Channel combinations thereof and the like. Furthermore communications media may include various components e.g. cables switches routers gateways bridges NAS SAN appliances nodes interfaces etc. . Moreover the communications medium are capable of having a variety of topologies e.g. queue manager and spoke ring backbone multi drop point to point irregular combinations thereof and so on .

PIM server stores applications and data concerning personal information including email for members of an enterprise. For example the enterprise may be a corporation whose members are employees. Data stored in PIM server takes the form of email messages between members of the enterprise. In some arrangements the email messages may be exchanged between members of the enterprise and other people external to the enterprise.

eKBA system obtains facts from PIM server stores facts on fact server generates KBA questions from facts and provides selected KBA questions to authentication terminal via enterprise app server . KBA system includes a fact server a question server a query generator and a confounder generator .

Fact server is an electronic system in communication with question generator . Fact server acquires facts from PIM server and stores facts within a fact database see . In some arrangements fact server generates facts from documents stored on PIM server .

Question server is an electronic system in communication with query generator confounder generator and communications medium . Question server stores queries generated by query generator confounders generated by confounder generator and KBA question . Question server also selects confounders to be used as incorrect answers for KBA question .

Query generator is an electronic system in communication with fact server and question server that generates queries from a subset of facts . Query of KBA question is the question statement as opposed to the multiple choices provided with the query as part of KBA question . Query generator is also configured to produce the correct answer to query of KBA question .

Confounder generator is an electronic system in communication with fact server and question server that generates confounders from another subset of facts . A confounder is a possible answer to query of KBA question that is incorrect but is configured to appear as a plausible answer to the query.

Enterprise app server provides an application programming interface API for providing questions to user .

Authentication terminal receives questions from enterprise app server and presents them to user in some cases through a service representative. In some arrangements authentication terminal is a Netview terminal.

During operation eKBA system extracts a set of facts from emails stored on PIM server . In some arrangements eKBA system performs the extraction on a periodic basis e.g. a nightly run. In other arrangements however eKBA system performs the extraction in response to an event.

It should be understood that as a consequence of facts being derived from emails stored on PIM server each fact includes a reference to at least one user identifier of a member of the organization that controls PIM server . In this way facts are in many cases expressions of a relationship between members of the organization For example one fact derived from an email states that Member A sent Member B an email on Day C at Time D about Meeting M. 

eKBA system then generates queries from subset of facts using query generator . In this way for each member of the organization eKBA system stores a set of queries on question server . Along these lines eKBA server may derive the query Which Member sent Member A an email on Day C based on the fact Member A sent Member B an email on Day C at Time D. Alternatively eKBA server may derive the query About what meeting did Member A mention to Member B in the email sent on Day C based on the fact Member A sent Member B an email on Day C about Meeting M. 

It should be understood that query generator produces a correct answer along with query . In the case of the former example above correct answer corresponding to query takes the form Member B. In the case of the latter example above correct answer corresponding to query takes the form Meeting M. 

eKBA system also generates confounders from subset of facts using confounder generator . In some arrangements subset is distinct from subset in that every element of subset is not an element of subset . In some further arrangements subset is derived from a first subset of emails and subset is derived from a second subset of emails .

Along these lines suppose that the second subset of emails includes emails between Member A and Member C Member D and Member E concerning Meeting N Meeting P and Meeting Q respectively. One set of confounders corresponding to a user identifier context takes the form of the set Member C Member D Member E . Another set of confounders corresponding to a topical context takes the form of the set Meeting N Meeting P Meeting Q .

In some arrangements eKBA system scans headers of emails for information regarding other contexts that may not be explicitly stated in a subject line. For example eKBA system may extract geolocation information from headers of emails for use in facts . Confounder generator may use the geolocation information for additional confounders . Further details of extraction of data from email headers will be described below with respect to .

At some time after queries and confounders have been generated user sends to eKBA system a request to access resources . Request includes a user identifier associated with a member of the organization.

Upon receipt of request eKBA system provides user with a selected KBA question that includes a query a correct answer to query and a set of incorrect answers selected from confounders . In some arrangements eKBA system selects set of incorrect answers at random from confounders . Further details concerning the selection of confounders for set of incorrect answers will be described below with respect to .

User provides eKBA system with an answer in the form of a selection of either the correct answer or one of incorrect answers to query and based on the answer eKBA system authenticates user .

Network interface takes the form of an Ethernet card in some arrangements network interface takes other forms including a wireless receiver and a token ring card.

Memory is configured to store code which includes query code configured to generate a set of queries from facts see stored in facts database on fact server . Queries in turn are stored in queries database on question server . Memory is also configured to store confounder code configured to generate a set of confounders from facts . Memory is further configured to store fact code configured to produce facts from emails see . Memory generally takes the form of e.g. random access memory flash memory or a non volatile memory.

In some arrangements query code is configured to extract a first subset of facts see with regard to a particular member of the organization. Confounder code then is configured to extract a second subset of facts that is distinct from subset

Processor takes the form of but is not limited to Intel or AMD based MPUs and can include a single or multi cores each running single or multiple threads. Processor is coupled to memory and is configured to execute instructions from query code confounder code and fact code . Processor includes query engine confounder engine and fact engine .

During operation processor accesses emails over network interface . For example PIM server may include a database not pictured on which emails are stored. In some arrangements PIM server stored emails in an Active Directory details about such an arrangement will be discussed below with respect to .

Fact engine forms facts from emails accessed on PIM server . In some arrangements fact engine parses headers of emails for particular keywords e.g. meeting travel etc. Further details of fact engine parsing email headers will be discussed below with respect to .

Suppose that eKBA server derives facts regarding Member A of the organization from email in order to derive queries . Fact engine see scans header for particular keywords especially To From CC Subject and Date . With these particular keywords fact engine extracts the text immediately following the keywords. In some arrangements fact engine also scans header for location data that may be derived from an IP address within a Return Path entry. For example header contains information that Member B who sent email to Member A is at a geolocation determined from IP address 156.158.39.119. Further fact engine may also include information about other people mentioned in the email Member C as well as a context in which to place the people included in the email Weekly Meeting . An example of a fact derived from header is Member A Member B and Member C are scheduled to attend a weekly meeting on November 5. 

In a similar fashion eKBA system derives facts regarding Member A from email in order to derive confounders . As with header above fact engine scans header of email for particular keywords. An example of a fact derived from header is Member A Member D and Member E had lunch on November 1. 

Query engine derives queries from facts such as that involving the weekly meeting above and stores derived KBA queries and corresponding correct answers in question database . Similarly confounder engine derives confounders from facts such as that involving the lunch above and stores confounders in confounder database . An example KBA question see takes the following form 

In some arrangements when there are many confounders stored in confounders database processor selects incorrect answers from confounders at random. In other arrangements however processor may select an incorrect answer from confounders based on an elapsed time since that incorrect answer was stored in confounders database . Further details of how confounders are stored in confounder database are discussed below with respect to .

In some arrangements table takes the form of an inverted list. That is each entry in the confounders field points to an index at which further information about the entry may be found. An advantage of formatting table as an inverted list is that processor see may locate confounders in a similarly rapid manner as would a search engine.

Entries and reference the user identifier of Member A about whom eKBA system is preparing KBA questions. These entries however refer to different contexts entry refers to Weekly Meeting November 5 while entry refers to Lunch as described in the examples above. It should be understood that processor extracted these context values from subject lines in emails and see . In some arrangements processor may extract values of context field from other portions of header e.g. geolocation as derived from a return IP address.

In constructing table confounder engine see extracts a fact from subset see and parses that fact according to user identifier field and context field . Confounder engine selects confounders from the fact according to the value of the context field and a value of a confounder context not pictured . For example the confounders listed in entry are user identifiers corresponding to those members of the organization who were not at the weekly meeting on November 5 i.e. the value of context field . Confounder engine found sources for such user identifiers in facts derived from emails other than email e.g. email .

Because table is arranged as an inverted list confounder engine provides links from values of confounders field to particular entries in confounders database where information about the confounders is located. For example in entry the value Member D in confounders field has a link not pictured to entries in confounders database that have Member D as a value in user identifier field . Such links provide verification that the information extracted from email is correct.

In some arrangements eKBA system imposes policies that restrict certain KBA questions from being posed to user . For example the organization may not wish for particular details concerning a merger to be leaked to user while the merger is taking place. In such a case eKBA system modifies confounder code to reflect such policies. In many cases these policies vary between groups of members. Emails see being arranged in an Active Directory structure allows eKBA system to apply different policies to different groups organized within the organization. Details of such an application of policies to confounder generation is discussed below with respect to .

Processor see translates rules in policies into confounder code see . Confounder engine then excludes user identifiers with values Member F and Member G from confounder database see and consequently table see .

While various embodiments of the invention have been particularly shown and described it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

For example eKBA system can also determine peer circles from emails . For example using link analysis eKBA system can determine which members have which degrees of interactions with a particular member of the organization. A particular policy can then have a rule stating that confounder engine may only select confounders from members included in such a peer circle i.e. when the value of a link is stronger than a threshold.

Further it should be understood that while the examples above were directed to deriving confounders from PIM data taken from members of an organization the above described improved techniques also apply to PIM data taken from users outside of the organization. Along these lines suppose that a member of the organization works with an external supplier and receives email communications from that supplier. eKBA server can then find all instances of that supplier stored on PIM server and create a table of relationships between the supplier and members of the organization within a database in eKBA server .

Furthermore it should be understood that some embodiments are directed to eKBA system which is constructed and arranged to generate a knowledge based authentication KBA question configured to be provided to a person requesting authentication as a user that is a member of an organization. Some embodiments are directed to a process of generating a KBA question. Also some embodiments are directed to a computer program product which enables computer logic to generate a KBA question.

In some arrangements eKBA system is implemented by a set of processors or other types of control processing circuitry running software. In such arrangements the software instructions can be delivered within eKBA system respectively see in the form of a computer program product each computer program product having a computer readable storage medium which stores the instructions in a non volatile manner. Alternative examples of suitable computer readable storage media include tangible articles of manufacture and apparatus such as CD ROM flash memory disk memory tape memory and the like.

