---

title: Mid-infrared photodetectors
abstract: Nanoparticles, methods of manufacture, devices comprising the nanoparticles, methods of their manufacture, and methods of their use are provided herein. The nanoparticles and devices having photoabsorptions in the range of 1.7 μm to 12 μm and can be used as photoconductors, photodiodes, phototransistors, charge-coupled devices (CCD), luminescent probes, lasers, thermal imagers, night-vision systems, and/or photodetectors.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09318628&OS=09318628&RS=09318628
owner: The University of Chicago
number: 09318628
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120521
---
The benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 488 563 filed May 20 2011 is claimed the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with governmental support under grants from the U.S. National Science Foundation NSF DMR 070626 and U.S. Department of Energy DOE DE FG02 06ER46326 . The government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to methods and devices in the field of infrared imaging more specifically mid wavelength infrared imaging at a wavelength in a range of 1.7 m to 12 m.

InSb and HgCdTe are currently the most common materials for mid wavelength infrared detectors. They are both mature material technologies that allow imaging chips called Focal Plane Arrays FPAs with good quantum efficiencies but they remain very expensive and require cooling. Over the past decade the trend to dual color FPA to improve thermal imaging has increased complexity and cost. As an alternative to bulk materials wavefunction engineering with epitaxial quantum wells and dots has also been explored with some success.

Colloidal quantum dots could present significant advantages over epitaxial dots. These quantum dots theoretically have a much higher packing density and an improved ease of processing but the fundamental molecular vibrations of the organic surfactants inherent to the quantum dots are believed to block their applicability. These molecular vibrations typically above 3 microns introduce picosecond nonradiative recombination of the infrared electronic excitation. Still further the large surface to volume ratio in colloidal quantum dot systems which often induces quenching through unpassivated surfaces suggests their inoperability in mid wavelength detectors.

Herein described are nanoparticles and methods of making the same. Moreover provided herein are methods of manufacturing nanoparticles comprising admixing a mercury II salt Hg and tellurium Te at a temperature below 100 C. thereby forming HgTe nanoparticles and isolating the nanoparticles wherein the nanoparticles comprise mercury and tellurium and have a size sufficient to provide a photoluminescence peak at a wavelength in a range of 1.7 m to 12 m.

Further provided herein are methods of manufacturing a device comprising providing the HgTe nanoparticles as described herein providing a first plurality of electrical connections and forming a first photoabsorptive layer that comprises the HgTe nanoparticles has a thickness in a range of 10 nm to 50 m 0.05 m to 25 m 0.1 m to 12.5 m or 0.5 m to 10 m and is in contact with the first plurality of electrical connections. The method can further comprise providing a second plurality of electrical connections and depositing HgTe nanoparticles as a second photoabsorptive layer that comprises an adjacent plurality of the HgTe nanoparticles an increased conductivity under illumination with light at a wavelength in a range of 1.7 m to 12 m has a thickness in a range of 10 nm to 50 m 0.05 m to 25 m 0.1 m to 12.5 m or 0.5 m to 10 m and is in contact with the second plurality of electrical connections wherein the size of the HgTe nanoparticles deposited in the second photoabsorptive layer differs from the size of the HgTe nanoparticles deposited in the first photoabsorptive layer as indicated by a difference in the corresponding photoluminescent peaks of at least 200 cm.

Further provided herein are photoconductors photodiodes or phototransistors comprising a photoabsorptive layer comprising a plurality of the HgTe nanoparticles a first electrical connection and a second electrical connection bridged by the photoabsorptive layer and an increased conductivity from the first electrical connection to the second electrical connection and across the photoabsorptive layer under illumination with light at a wavelength in a range of 1.7 m to 12 m.

Also provided are devices comprising a plurality of the photoconductors photodiodes or phototransistors as described herein and a readout circuit electrically connected to the plurality of the photoconductors photodiodes or phototransistors. The plurality of photoconductors photodiodes or phototransistors can comprise a first plurality of photoconductors photodiodes or phototransistors and a second plurality of photoconductors photodiodes or phototransistors and wherein a photoluminescence peak frequency of the HgTe nanoparticles of the first plurality is different from a photoluminescence peak frequency of the HgTe nanoparticles of the second plurality.

Further provided herein are charge coupled device CCD photodetectors comprising a first region that comprises a plurality of the first photoconductors photodiodes or phototransistors a second pixel region that comprises a plurality of the second photoconductors photodiodes or phototransistors and a pixel circuit for each pixel region each pixel circuit including a cathode layer and an anode layer and further comprising a charge store and a read out circuit. The photodetector can further comprise circuitry that includes the pixel circuits configured to measure a photoresponsive current through each pixel region over a period of time.

Also provided herein are methods of producing an image comprising providing a device as described herein exposing the device to light at wavelengths absorbed by the HgTe nanoparticles disclosed herein to provide a photoresponsive current and rendering the photoresponsive current as an image or image data file.

While the disclosed compositions method and apparatus are susceptible of embodiments in various forms there are illustrated in the examples and figures and will hereafter be described specific embodiments with the understanding that the disclosure is intended to be illustrative and is not intended to limit the invention to the specific embodiments described and illustrated herein.

Herein are described materials methods and apparatus with nanoparticle materials that exhibit photoabsorptions at frequencies greater than 2000 cm. These materials and the methods and apparatus that employ them exhibit photoabsorptions in the mid infrared mid IR region of the electromagnetic spectrum in some cases in the atmospheric mid IR transparency window between 3 m and 5 m.

In various embodiments the materials methods and apparatus of the current disclosure include nanoparticles having a discrete size and shape. Herein nanoparticles include but are not limited to nanocrystals nanorods nanowires and the like. Nanoparticles generally refers to a particle that exhibits one or more properties not normally associated with a corresponding bulk material e.g. quantum optical effects . The term also generally refers to materials having at least two dimensions that do not exceed about 1000 nm. In various embodiments described herein these dimensions are even smaller. Typically nanocrystals have three dimensions that do not exceed 1000 nm herein and in some cases do not exceed 500 nm or more preferably do not exceed 250 nm 100 nm 50 nm or 25 nm. Typically the nanocrystals can have an average diameter in a range of about 1 nm to about 25 nm about 5 nm to about 15 nm or about 7 nm to about 11 nm.

The nanoparticles have a size sufficient to provide a photoluminescence peak at a frequency greater than 2000 cm. The nanoparticle can have a size sufficient to provide a photoluminescence peak in the range of 2000 cmto 6000 cm. In some embodiments the nanoparticles comprise HgTe and have a size sufficient to provide a photoluminescence peak at a frequency between 2000 cmand 6000 cm. In various embodiments the nanoparticles have a size sufficient to provide a photoluminescence peak at a wavelength in a range of 1.7 m to 12 m 2 m to 6 m 3 m to 5 m 7 to 12 m or 8 to 11 m.

A measure of the uniformity of nanoparticle size is obtained by the measurement of the photoluminescent peak s width at half height. In various cases the herein disclosed nanoparticles have a low size dispersity e.g. nearly monodisperse or monodisperse . The photoluminescence peak of certain embodiments of the herein disclosed nanoparticles has a peak width at half height less than 1000 cm less than 750 cm or less than 500 cm. The peak width at half height can be in a range of 50 cmto 800 cm 100 cmto 700 cm or 400 cmto 600 cm.

In various embodiments the nanoparticles disclosed herien have a size sufficient to provide an absorption edge at a wavelength in a range of 1.7 m to 12 m 2 m to 6 m 3 m to 5 m 7 to 12 m or 8 to 11 m. For example see that shows a series of herein described HgTe nanoparticles having an absorption edge at wavelengths in a range of about 1.7 m to about 5 m.

The nanoparticles can have a cap capping ligand or passivation layer that can provide solubility stability quantum confinement or reactivity to the underlying nanocrystal. Herein the terms nanoparticle and nanocrystal expressly include the cap capping layer or passivation layer unless an express statement distinguishes between the underlying nanocrystal and the cap capping ligand or passivation layer.

In various embodiments the underlying nanocrystal comprises a mercury II containing nanocrystal. In some embodiments the mercury containing nanocrystal includes a chalcogenide e.g. selenium tellurium or a mixture thereof. In various embodiments the nanocrystal is a mercury telluride nanocrystal HgTe . In various embodiments the nanocrystal is a mercury selenide nanocrystal HgSe . In some embodiments the nanocrystal is a core shell nanocrystal for example a nanocrystal that includes a HgTe core and a CdTe shell HgTe CdTe . Alternative core and shell arrangements can also be used for example HgTe HeSe or HgTe CdHgTe . In some cases the shell does not include a chalcogenide that exchanges with the tellurium of the core which would quench some or all of the photoabsorption in the mid IR region.

The cap capping ligand or passivation layer can be an organic fragment or an inorganic fragment. The organic fragment can for example be selected from the group consisting of alkylamines alkylthiols alkylselenol alkylphosphine alkylphosphine oxide alkylphosphine sulfide alkylphosphine selenide alkylphosphine telluride and mixtures thereof. In one embodiment these organic fragments are understood to encompass both the protonated and unprotonated forms where appropriate. An example of the protonated form is dodecantethiol RSH an example of the deprotonated form is dodecanesulfide RS . The inorganic fragment can for example be selected from As As As As As AsS AsSe AsTe AsTe AuTe AuTe Bi Bi Bi Bi GaTe Ge Ge GeS HgSe InSe InTe NiSb Pb Pb Pb PbSb Sb Sb Sb SbSe SbSe SbTe SbSe SbTe SbTe SbTe SbTe Se Se Se Se Se Sn Sn Sn Sn SnS SnSe SnTe SnSMn SnS SnSe SnTe SnBi SnSb Te Te Te TlTe TlSn TlSn TlSn TlTe and a mixture thereof.

In some embodiments HgTe nanoparticles as described herein are made at low temperatures below about 100 C. useing tellurium 0 . The method includes admixing a mercury II salt Hg and tellurium Te at a temperature below about 100 C. thereby forming the nanoparticles in the resulting reaction mixture and then isolating the nanoparticles from the reaction mixture. As described above the resulting nanoparticles have a size sufficient to provide a photoluminescence peak at a frequency greater than 2000 cm.

The method can further comprise admixing the tellurium with a trialkylphosphine. Herein the phosphine telluride is considered a form of Te 0 . Alternatively and as understood by one of ordinary skill the methods can include admixing a mercury II salt Hg tellurium II Te and a pentavalent phosphine P . The method can further include admixing the tellurium with an excess of trialkylphosphine wherein an excess is determined by a molar ratio moles trialkylphosphine moles Te of greater than 1 for example the molar ratio can be in the range of 1 to 10 1.5 to 7.5 or 2 to 5.

The trialkylphosphine can have a range of carbon atoms the range including from 3 to 60 carbon atoms from 6 to 36 carbon atoms or from 12 to 30 carbon atoms. Examples of contemplated trialkylphosphines include but are not limited to triethylphosphine tributylphosphine tripentylphosphine trihexylphosphine trioctylphosphine and tridecylphosphine.

The admixing of the mercury II salt Hg and tellurium Te can include injecting a mercury solution into a tellurium solution. The method can further include preparing a tellurium solution or preparing a mercury solution prior to admixing. In various cases the tellurium or tellurium solution just prior to admixture with the mercury or mercury solution is at a temperature in a range of about 0 C. to about 90 C. Preparing the tellurium solution can include admixing the tellurium and the trialkylphosphine. Preparing the mercury solution can include dissolving a mercury salt in a nitrogen base e.g. pyridine a mercury salt with a nitrogen base in a solvent or dissolving a mercury amine salt in a solvent. Contemplated solvents include butanol pentanol hexanol heptanol octanol nonanol decanol dodecanol and combinations thereof.

In some embodiments the method of making nanoparticles as disclosed herein includes a reaction mixture that is substantially free of an alkane thiol. As used here substantially free means that the molar concentration of alkane thiol in the reaction mixture is less than 10 less than 5 less than 3 or less than 1 of the molar concentration of the mercury salt in the reaction mixture. In some cases there is less than 0.5 or no alkane thiol in the reaction mixture.

Isolating the nanoparticles from the reaction mixture can include admixing a thiol with the reaction mixture thereby forming a quenched mixture and then extracting the nanoparticles from the quenched mixture. The thiol can be an alkane thiol having between 6 and 30 carbon atoms for example hexane thiol octane thiol decane thiol dodecane thiol hexadecane thiol eicosanethiol or a combination thereof.

Isolating the nanoparticles from the reaction mixture can include admixing the reaction mixture with a precipitation solvent in which the nanoparticles are insoluble or sparingly soluble e.g. have an appreciably low solubility and or centrifuging the reaction mixture or the quenched mixture to yield isolated nanoparticles. The isolated nanoparticles can be washed and or redispersed in a solvent e.g. tetrachloroethylene. The redispersed nanoparticles can be precipitated from the solution by the addition of a precipitating agent that is an agent that causes the precipitation of the nanoparticles e.g. acetonitrile or methanol. The isolated then precipitated nanoparticles can again be dispersed in a suitable solvent for the preparation of devices that include the nanoparticle.

In various embodiments the HgTe nanoparticles can be used in a photoconductor photodiode or phototransistor device. The photoconductor photodiode or phototransistor includes a photoabsorptive layer comprising an adjacent plurality of the HgTe nanoparticles as described above a first electrical connection and a second electrical connection bridged by the photoabsorptive layer and an increased conductivity from the first electrical connection to the second electrical connection and across the photoabsorptive layer under illumination with light at a wavelength in a range of 1.7 m to 12 m. As shown in the herein described photoilluminated nanoparticles have an increased conductivity over the dark current. Further the responsivity increases as a function of the applied bias see e.g. . In some cases the photoabsorptive layer of the photoconductor photodiode or phototransistor has a thickness in a range of 15 nm to 10 m.

As used herein increased conductivity is proportional to the product of the material s e.g. nanoparticle matrix including the nanoparticle film or layer electrical mobility and carrier concentration. The carrier concentration is herein influenced by the addition of irradiation at a wavelength sufficient to cause the formation of electron hole pairs.

The photoconductor photodiode or phototransistor device can include a plurality of photoconductors photodiodes or phototransistors and a readout circuit electrically connected to the plurality of the photoconductors photodiodes or phototransistors. In some cases the plurality of photoconductors photodiodes or phototransistors comprises a first plurality of photoconductors photodiodes or phototransistors and a second plurality of photoconductors photodiodes or phototransistors and wherein a photoluminescence peak frequency of the HgTe nanoparticles of the first plurality is different from a photoluminescence peak frequency of the HgTe nanoparticles of the second plurality. In one aspect the difference between the photoluminescence peak frequencies is at least 100 cm.

In various embodiments the photoconductor photodiode or phototransistor device can be selected from the group consisting of a charge coupled device CCD a luminescent probe a laser and a photodetector.

In various embodiment the photoconductor photodiode or phototransistor device further includes a charge store and a read out circuit and which in some cases are individually connected to each photoconductor photodiode or phototransistor. Optionally the photoconductor photodiode or phototransistor device further includes circuitry configured to measure a photoresponsive current through each photoconductor photodiode or phototransistor over a period of time.

In some embodiments the device comprises a first cathode layer the cathode layer electronically coupled to a first photoabsorptive layer that comprises the HgTe nanoparticles described above and the first photoabsorptive layer electronically coupled to a first anode layer. The first photoabsorptive layer can have a thickness in a range of 10 nm to 50 m 0.05 m to 25 m 0.1 m to 12.5 m or 0.5 m to 10 m. Furthermore the first photoabsorptive layer can comprise a plurality of adjacent HgTe nanoparticles arranged in an orientation that includes a minimum spacing between adjacent HgTe nanoparticles the orientation of the HgTe nanoparticles being sufficient to provide a prolonged photoexcitation of the HgTe nanoparticle and result in a photoresponsive current.

In various embodiments the device also includes a second cathode layer coupled to a second photoabsorptive layer that comprises HgTe nanoparticles and the second photoabsorptive layer is electronically coupled to a second anode layer. Notably the size of the HgTe nanoparticles of the second photoabsorptive layer can be different from the size of the HgTe nanoparticles of the first photoabsorptive layer. The size difference is indicated by a difference in the photoluminescent peaks corresponding to the HgTe nanoparticles in the respective photoabsorptive layers. In some cases the device further comprises a second photoabsorptive layer that has a thickness in a range of 10 nm to 50 m 0.05 m to 25 m 0.1 m to 12.5 m or 0.5 m to 10 m. The photoluminescence peak and peak width are determined from the respective photoabsorptive layer.

In various embodiments the device can be manufactured with the HgTe nanoparticles and a first plurality of electrical connections by forming a first photoabsorptive layer that comprises the HgTe nanoparticles and has a thickness in a range of 10 nm to 50 m 0.05 m to 25 m 0.1 m to 12.5 m or 0.5 m to 10 m in contact with the first plurality of electrical connections. As noted above the HgTe nanoparticles can have a size sufficient to provide a photoluminescence peak at a frequency between 2000 cmand 6000 cmwith a peak width at half height in a range of 100 cmto 1000 cm a range of 200 cmto 800 cm or in a range of 300 cmto 700 cm. Additionally the first photoabsorptive layer can comprise an adjacent plurality of the HgTe nanoparticles and an increased conductivity between the electrical connections under illumination with light at a wavelength in a range of 1.7 m to 12 m.

In various embodiments the device can be manufactured with a plurality of second electrical connections by depositing HgTe nanoparticles as a second photoabsorptive layer that comprises an adjacent plurality of the HgTe nanoparticles an increased conductivity under illumination with light at a wavelength in a range of 1.7 m to 12 m has a thickness in a range of 10 nm to 50 m 0.05 m to 25 m 0.1 m to 12.5 m or 0.5 m to 10 m and is in contact with the second plurality of electrical connections. The size of the HgTe nanoparticles deposited in the second photoabsorptive layer can differ from the size of the HgTe nanoparticles deposited in the first photoabsorptive layer as indicated by a difference in the corresponding photoluminescent peaks of at least 200 cm.

In some embodiments the method of manufacturing the device excludes annealing the deposited HgTe nanoparticles. Annealing comprises heating the HgTe nanoparticle to a temperature above about 100 C.

The herein described devices can be used in a variety of applications depending on the organization of the photodiodes and phototransistors. In some embodiments the device is used to produce or store an image the method includes providing a device as described above exposing the device to light at wavelengths absorbed by the HgTe nanoparticles to provide a photoresponsive current and rendering the photoresponsive current as an image or image data file.

Regarding the HgTe nanoparticles shows the absorption spectra of solutions of HgTe nanoparticles in tetrachloroethylene from the near IR to the mid IR. The absorption spectra also show the hydrocarbon vibrational absorption around 3.4 m which arises from the dodecanethiol ligands and remains of similar magnitude to the dot electronic absorption.

Although the absorption edge implies quantum confinement Dynamic Light Scattering DLS indicates partial aggregation of the nanoparticles in the solution. Aggregation in an extended necklace structure is also seen in TEM images shown in . Nevertheless particles are distinguishable. In one example a sample had a diameter of 10.5 2.5 nm diameter and an absorption edge just past 5 m and in another example a sample had a diameter of 7.1 1.0 nm and absorbed to just beyond 3 m. Films prepared from these solutions of these particles are herein referred to as 5 m and 3 m samples respectively. In the inset shows interference fringes with a 3.7 interplanar distance consistent with the spacing along the 111 direction of the zinc blende structure with a 6.46 HgTe unit cell parameter.

The particle aggregation which without wishing to be bound by theory is thought to arise from the synthetic scheme plays a beneficial role by providing electronic coupling between particles. In contrast to typical drop cast colloidal quantum dot CQD films where ligand exchange or sintering is essential to achieve conductivity the HgTe dot films disclosed herein are readily conductive without any treatment. As shown in films show nearly linear IV curves in the dark as well as under illumination 10 10photon s at room temperature. For a 3 m sample film with a thickness of 300 nm the dark conductivity a 10Scm while for a 5 m sample with a thickness of 450 nm the dark conductivity is 1.3 10Scm.

As shown in and the dark current is thermally activated. The activation energies are 106 10 meV for the 5 m sample and 201 20 meV for the 3 m sample and close to half of the optical gaps just as for intrinsic semiconductors. Without being bound by theory the thermally activated conductance is believed to come primarily from the thermal creation of carriers which is possible in such narrow gap materials. Within the intrinsic regime the number of carriers of a given sign per dot should be n nn exp E 2kT where nand nare the number of electron and hole states thermally accessible per dot. Taking n n 2 for the non degenerate S states and E 400 meV for the 3 micron sample gives n 10at 300K. With a close packed dot density estimated as N 5 10cm a mobility Nne 10cmVsis then obtained where e is the elementary electric charge. For such a simply drop cast film this is an unexpectedly high mobility value and without being bound by theory is thought to reflect the partial aggregation discussed above. This mobility is an averaged value for the disordered material and additional states will increase the carrier density and reduce the estimate. The photocurrent as a function of chopper frequency is given in the range of 0.1 4.4 kHz in . In this range the response decreases only slightly. Transient photocurrent following a 10 ps 1064 nm pulse is provided in .

The spectral response of devices can be acquired with a step scan Michelson interferometer. The SiC lamp output is mechanically chopped at 1.5 KHz. A Keithley 6487 pico ammeter biases the sample and amplifies the current which is then detected by a lock in amplifier PAR model 124 . The analog signal from the lock in as a function of the mirror displacement is Fourier transformed to provide the photocurrent spectra shown in . The spectrometer uses a CaFbeam splitter and operates up to 8.5 microns. The spectra are not corrected for the lamp spectrum and the spectrometer transmission and the response of a cooled HgCdTe MCT detector with 11 microns peak detectivity is shown as a comparison. Spectra normalized to the MCT response are shown in . The spectra demonstrated a cut off at 3 microns for the 3 m sample device and 5 microns for the 5 m sample device in agreement with their optical absorption edge. Although the spectra do not change with applied bias the cut offs redshift with cooling consistent with the shift of the bulk band parameters with temperature.

To determine the responsivity a blackbody source at a short distance 5 cm was used to reduce air absorption. The photon flux reaching the detector is given by equation 1 .

The responsivity is obtained by dividing the measured photocurrent by the calculated incident power between the Ge filter cutoff of 1.7 m and the cut off of the sample. The responsivity of two devices as a function of the applied bias is shown in showing a nearly linear dependence with bias. The 3 and 5 m detector responsivities at 10 V bias are 0.15 A Wand 0.25 A Wrespectively. Typical mid wavelength IR MWIR detector responsivities are presented in Table 1. Surprisingly the colloidal HgTe films compare well with quantum well infrared photodetectors QWIP and type II strained superlattice detectors yet the herein described films are without any optimization.

This successful operation of the 5 micron sample CQD detector indicates that significant charge separation takes place within the exciton lifetime in spite of the expected quenching by the ligand molecular vibrations. For example the charge separation rate constant is sufficiently high to compete with the molecular vibrational quenching rate constant.

Finally the noise current density Iis measured. shows that the 1 f noise prevails at room temperature and low frequency and is well above the Johnson noise 9 10A Hzat 295K . 1 f noise is problematic for applications but it is expected in granular films. A change in the film morphology can contribute to a decrease of the noise. The specific detectivity given by

Notably the HgTe nanoparticle films described herein are photoconductors in the MWIR e.g. between 3 and 5 m. They are stable in ambient conditions and have unexpectedly high detectivities in spite of the significant ligand vibrational absorption remaining in the film and the simple drop cast film preparation.

In yet other embodiments the herein described photoabsorptive layer can further comprise a plasmonic antenna. For example the plurality of HgTe nanoparticles can be coupled e.g. covalently physiochemically ionically electrostatically or electromagnetically to a plasmon resonating particle or surface. In some examples a plasmon resonating nanoparticle e.g. nanocrystal or nanowire is admixed with the plurality of HgTe nanoparticle and the admixture is used to form or forms the photoabsorptive layer. In other examples the HgTe nanoparticles are deposited onto a plasmon resonating surface e.g. a surface comprising a material that yields a surface plasmon resonance. In various cases the plasmon overlaps with the absorbance of the HgTe nanoparticles for example with a wavelength in a range of 1.7 m to 12 m.

In some embodiments the herein described photoabsorptive layer comprises the plurality of HgTe nanoparticles within an inorganic matrix. As used herein the inorganic matrix may have if crystalline larger crystal domains than the nanoparticles and importantly separates the nanoparticles. The inorganic matrix can be a glass a solid or a crystalline material. Additionally the order of the array of nanoparticles can be short range or long range. Very dilute samples of nanoparticles in the inorganic matrix are expected to have lower relative ordering than concentrated samples wherein the nanoparticles can be ordered prior to and or after the formation of the inorganic matrix.

In various embodiments the HgTe nanoparticles described in the devices and methods of manufacturing devices described above can be supplemented or admixed with other nanoparticles including for example HgSe nanoparticles PbSnTe nanoparticles InAsSb nanoparticles or mixtures thereof. That is the devices and methods of manufacturing devices described above can include nanoparticles that comprise or consist of for example HgTe HgTe HgSe HgTe PbSnTe HgTe InAsSb HgSe HgSe PbSnTe HgSe InAsSb PbSnTe PbSnTe InAsSb or InAsSb.

Nanoparticles and devices comprising nanoparticles are further described in U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 12 733 679 11 327 655 12 780 420 12 728 181 12 728 184 12 506 233 12 506 236 12 426 854 and 12 852 328 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 326 908 7 746 681 7 742 322 7 881 091 7 923 801 and 7 773 404 all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Infrared thermal imagery mostly uses two ranges of atmospheric transparency the 3 5 m Medium Wave Infrared MWIR and the 8 12 m range Long Wave Infrared LWIR For these two ranges mature technologies have been developed and infrared imagery now faces the two challenges of increasing the detector operating temperature and decreasing the cost of the focal plane array.

Quantum Dot Infrared Photodetectors based on molecular beam epitaxy MBE grown III V semiconductors have been reported and can have improved performance compared to quantum well devices. CQDs offer several attractive features for imagery. The cost of films deposited from solution is reduced by orders of magnitude compared to epitaxial growth which may lead to significantly decreased costs. Since there is no need for epitaxial matching the material can be deposited on any substrate including glassy or flexible material. Colloidal solution can be spin coated or inkjet printed. Using CQDs infrared absorption can be accessed with interband or intraband transitions as shown in . Multicolor detectors can be achieved using two different sizes of nanomaterials. Because films of colloidal dots are close packed the absorption is much stronger than in Stranski Krastanov grown quantum dot. Fully absorbing films remain thin and allow coupling with plasmonic structures.

Colloidal nanomaterials can also be challenging to prepare. Strategies for obtaining chemical stability and electronic passivation of the nanomaterials is not as mature as with epitaxial materials. Nonradiative processes are of a more diverse nature than in epitaxial system due to the large role of the interfaces. Electron transfer through a nanomaterial solid with many high barrier interfaces can be slow and lead to insulating behavior. The long term stability of nanomaterials can be uncertain given the large density of interfaces with atoms presenting different or weaker chemical binding. Electrical noise is can limit detection ability of the materials and disordered granular systems are prone to high 1 f noise.

Colloidal nanomaterials have been researched for visible and near IR applications such as biological labeling and solar energy. In these spectral ranges they compete with small organic molecules and polymers. However organic molecules cannot sustain mid IR electronic transitions due to intramolecular vibrational relaxation. Thus colloidal inorganic nanomaterials are uniquely capable to serve as solution processable infrared electronic materials.

Chemical control of CQDs is improving. For example core shell systems allow an increasing degree of surface control. Molecular vibrations of ligands still quench the nanocrystals electronic transitions in the mid IR but removal or replacement of organic ligands with inorganic matrices allow for better control. There has been progress in the device arena since the observation of ohmic conductivity in monodispersed colloidal nanocrystal films nearly a decade ago field effect transistors of ever increasing mobilities high sensitivity photoconduction and improving photovoltaic performance.

The physical principles behind a colloidal quantum dot detector are the same as for a bulk semiconductor detector. The thermal generation of carriers Gand the specific detectivity D 

With CQDs the absorption a will be maximized since without wishing to be bound by theory the oscillator strength of bulk HgTe concentrates on the first excitonic transitions of the dots and the dots assemble in a close packed arrangement. Therefore while the weak absorption of QDIP is one of their major issues CQDs provide some benefits.

The other parameter is the carrier lifetime . Unlike in a bulk semiconductor there is no specific limit on the lifetime in a CQDs system. It can be very long leading to ultrasensitive near IR PbS CQDs photodetectors. Indeed is related to the rates of the radiative and non radiative recombination in the dots as well as the hopping rates of the carriers between dots. Through chemistry this can be adjusted at will a limitation being the requirement on the response time of the detector.

As one example if one considers bulk Mercury Cadmium Telluride MCT the limit on the lifetime is imposed by the Auger rate n at the operating temperature. Auger may still take place in a very short time in a dot that has more than two carriers typically on 100 ps time scales but it is quenched if the carriers are on separate dots. Taking into account that electrons sample dots at a rate given by the hopping time then the effective Auger rate in the film is given by n n V . If the hopping time is very fast this becomes V . However since previous studies in direct band gap semiconductor nanocrystals indicate that V likely because of the smaller density of state in the dots the Auger rate in the CQDs film will always be slower than in the bulk.

In CQDs films the hopping time between dots is an essential time constant which is related to the mobility. Mobilities in films of colloidal dots are typically many orders of magnitude lower than in the bulk and depend essentially on the barrier material and thickness between the dots. It was discovered that with nearly no effort to couple the dots electronically mobilities of 0.1 cm Vs are readily achieved. This corresponds to a hopping time of 0.5 ns.

To some degree this hopping time determines the responsivity both by its effect on the quantum yield and through the mobility. Charge separation is affected by this hopping time and the competing recombination time for radiative and nonradiative process. Therefore the quantum yield in Eq.1 can be written as . For mid IR CQDs the radiative recombination is 100 ns or longer and therefore not a limitation however nonradiative processes can be much faster. For example nonradiative energy transfer to organic ligands shell can easily be in the picoseconds regime Error Bookmark not defined. but it can be lengthened to beyond a nanosecond by minimizing the infrared absorption of the ligands or interdot material. Mobilities of 0.1 cm s are not so low as to prevent high quantum yields in principle and excellent responsivities are expected from CQDs films.

Initial studies showed that at 1 kHz 1 f noise dominates starting at temperatures of 100K and increases dramatically with higher temperatures.

Candidates for colloidal quantum dot absorbing in the mid IR can be found among small gap binary and ternary semiconductors as well as semimetals. Among the binaries PbSe is a popular IR colloidal dot. However PbSe is limited by its bulk band gap of 0.27 eV at room temperature. SnTe has a slightly smaller gap and can also be synthesized as a highly monodisperse material. InSb is another binary material with a smaller gap at 0.19 eV 6.5 microns but its synthesis as a colloidal material has not yet yielded good optical properties. Ternaries allow shifting the gap further such as for PbSnTe which has a 0 eV gap for x 0.6. The colloidal synthesis of PbSnTe showed that the gap of 7.5 nm diameter nanocrystals decreased from 0.7 eV to 0.3 eV as the Sn concentration reached 50 and increased back to about 0.7 eV for pure SnTe. InAsSbhas a gap at 11.5 m 0.11 eV at x 0.3. In contrast to InSb good quality relatively monodispersed and near IR luminescent InAs colloidal dots have been synthesized as well as core shells. Starting from the InAs route one could make InAsSbcolloidal dots. Semimetals can afford an IR gap if one considers quantum confinement. HgTe 300 meV elemental Bi 40 meV and Sb 180 meV have all moderate effective mass and are expected to exhibit confinement effects. In Sb nanowires a gap is expected to open only around 9 nm diameter. Small pockets at the Fermi level suggest however that neither Bi nor Sb are widely tunable IR materials.

On the other hand both HgSe and HgTe nanocrystals colloids have been reported in the literature with evidence of strong confinement and near IR gaps. HgTe is better characterized as a colloidal quantum dot material. shows the extraordinary quantum confinement 2 eV achieved in that system. The initial HgTe nanocrystals emitting in the near IR were made by the partial replacement of Cd by Hg in CdTe nanocrystals. The aqueous synthesis of such small HgCdTe by Rogach et al. led to efficient near IR luminescence up to 2 m. Their emission lifetime in the 50 ns range was much faster than for PbSe at a similar wavelength reflecting the much larger oscillator strength HgTe Kane parameter Ep 20 eV and weaker dielectric screening. Pure HgTe affords the same optical advantage while allowing better control a priori. Kovalenko et al. introduced a synthetic method that led to a fairly clean band edge up to 3 m and PL tunable from 1.2 to 3 microns. The Kovalenko et al. strategy involved a low temperature reaction in aqueous solution to form small dots followed by Ostwald ripening in nonpolar solvent. The Te source was in situ electrochemically generated H2Te. This procedure can make dots with an IR gap up to 3 microns but in low yield.

The spectral range of colloidal HgTe has been further expanded as shown in . Using a higher reaction temperature different solvent and a less reactive Te source HgTe nanocrystals are synthesized with an absorption edge at 5 microns and in good yield. There is no reason to expect 5 microns to be a limit. For surface passivation R S is a soft nucleophile which binds strongly to the soft electrophile Hg and HgTe nanocrystals and thus passivates the dots.

HgTe nanocrystals can in principle tune across the mid and long wave IR. For a spherical dot and an infinite confinement potential using R for the momentum in the 2 band k p approximation the energy of the first transition as a function of radius R is given by

The HgTe nanocrystals also fluoresce at their band edge41 but the efficiency drops dramatically as the wavelength tunes to the mid infrared. Without wishing to be bound by theory one possible explanation for this effect is the very efficient near field coupling between the emitting dipole and the weak infrared absorption of the ligand layers which are used for solubility in organic solvent. Although a monolayer of such ligands can only absorb a minute amount of IR radiation in the far field with transmittance larger than 99.9 the near field coupling completely changes the situation leading to more than 99.9 of the emission of the dipole being absorbed. shows the expected emission quantum yield for a dipole inside a sphere taking into account the energy transfer to a 1 nm thick shell of alkane ligands. It is seen that the quantum yield drops precipitously in the mid IR. Core shells and or IR transparent ligands or matrix can be used to improve the luminescence.

For conductivity and photoconductivity characterization the HgTe colloidal dots are drop cast as films on interdigitated electrodes. The conductivity and mid infrared response photoconductivity of HgTe CQD solid films has been investigated as a function of temperature and particle size and the cut off wavelength has been tuned from the near infrared up to 7 m. The measured responsivity already competes with devices such as QWIP or type II superlattices and further improvements are expected with optimized thicker films. In films made of HeTe CQDs the dark current showed a thermal activation with an energy close to half of the energy gap. This suggests that at room temperature most carriers are thermally generated. From the conductivity and the estimated carrier density the mobility of 0.1 1 cmVswas extracted. These mobility values have been confirmed by direct measurements where the carrier concentration was modulated by electrochemical gating. Other HgTe CQD materials which are more monodisperse exhibit sharper photoresponse edges as shown in . However the films require ligand exchange to provide mobilities of 10 2 cm V s which are still lower than in the first generation unprocessed material.

The temperature dependence of the responsivity is much weaker than that of the dark current being essentially constant around room temperature and dropping only at lower temperatures. Without wishing to be bound by theory this behavior may arise from already efficient charge separation at room temperature.

As shown in the films show 1 f noise at low frequency. From an estimate of the carrier density values of the Hooge s constant were a few orders of magnitude larger than for clean homogeneous metals. The 1 f noise decreases strongly with temperature leading to an optimum operating temperature. The best detectivity values for a 450 nm thick film are about 2 10Jones at 130K and the fastest response times are below 100 ns at room temperature. A detectivity map is shown in . These results have been obtained with no processing of the films other than simply drop cast from solutions.

Since the mobility and carrier generation efficiency are already high it seems that further improvement can come from the improved optical absorption edge longer carrier lifetime and reduced noise. Improved optical properties can also come from thicker films that absorb all the light around a couple microns thick and materials with improved monodispersivity. Higher monodispersivity will also reduce the concentration of large dots which may act as recombination centers. Reducing the noise will involve investigating the effect of film processing to possibly reduce a current crowding effect which maybe the source of excess 1 f noise.

Colloidal quantum dots have just started being investigated for their potential as mid infrared detectors. The chemistry is still under development to improve the range of materials that can be synthesized. The responsivity and noise are likely to be extremely sensitive to the surface chemistry and the matrix material surrounding the dots and there is a vast range of possible chemical processes that can be optimized. At present detectivities between 10and 10Jones at 5 microns have been demonstrated while maintaining a fast response time at moderate cooling temperatures consistent with imaging operation and these performances were obtained with simple drop casting.

Room temperature photodetection with HgTe colloidal quantum films is reported between 2 and 5 microns for particles of sizes between 5 and 12 nm diameter and photodetection extends to 7 microns at 80K. The size tuning of the absorption of HgTe colloidal quantum dots their optical cross section and the infrared absorption depth of films are measured. The tuning with radius is empirically given by

Colloidal nanomaterials are widely investigated for their potential in electronic and optical applications. Colloidal quantum dots CQDs provide specific opportunities with early developments focusing on the visible spectrum primarily with the highly monodisperse cadmium chalcogenides. In the past decade the near infrared has become of interest with the most studied materials being the lead chalcogenides lately motivated largely by the hope of creating cheap photovoltaic thin films. With CQDs of the appropriate inorganic materials the optical response can be extended into the mid infrared which may lead to a lower cost alternative to the currently expensive infrared imaging technology. The mercury chalcogenides with a zero bulk band gap fulfill this opportunity and HgTe CQD films have recently enabled photodetection in the mid IR. HgTe colloids have been synthesized for more than a decade but the materials remained restricted to the near infrared with broad absorption edges. Recently more monodisperse HgTe colloidal dots have been synthesized providing materials with excitonic transitions well into the mid infrared. Disclosed herein are investigations into the optical properties of these new materials. shows that the spectral photocurrent response of thin films of these HgTe CQD films is widely tunable with different sizes of particles. In addition shows that the spectral response also tunes with temperature showing a strong redshift with decreasing temperature. With these new colloidal semiconductor materials some of the optical properties are characterized such as the size tuning the optical cross sections in solution and the absorption depth of the films. The temperature tuning of the absorption is also of practical importance for detection and the shift and its size dependence are investigated. The measured properties of the materials are compared to expectations based on the k p model of bulk HgTe.

HgTe colloidal dots are synthesized as follows. Briefly HgCland oleylamine are heated to 100 C. under vacuum for 1 hour. The mixture is then heated or cooled to the appropriate growth temperature for the target size with higher temperature giving larger particles and Te dissolved in trioctylphosphine is quickly added. Growth is stopped by quenching the solution into dodecanethiol in tetrachloroethylene and the particles purified by precipitation with methanol. Typical growth times are between 1 and 90 min with longer times giving larger particles. Various shapes including spheres tetrahedra or even multipods are obtained as shown in . In spite of the variety of morphology the HgTe CQDs are always zinc blende as shown by X ray diffraction XRD data in . The particle sizes studied here range from 5 to 12 nm as determined by TEM which results in the band edge energy tuning from the near to mid IR. The size tuning of the absorption edge is shown in .

The sizes in were determined from TEM images as an effective diameter. Due to the significant variation in particle shape and the tendency of the particles to aggregate XRD was used to obtain another measure of size using the Debye Scherrer formula.

The optical cross sections of colloidal dots are useful to determine the concentrations of colloidal solutions but they have not been reported previously for HgTe dots. The cross sections reported here are obtained by first measuring the absorption in the UV visible and infrared and determining the QD size from XRD. Then the samples are acid digested and the mercury content is measured by titration with dithizone. As shown in the cross section of the HgTe QDs per Hg atom at 415 nm is almost constant over 6 sizes of nanoparticles. Thus 2.6 0.4 10cmwas used to directly estimate the number of Hg atoms. Using the size determined from the XRD data to estimate the number of Hg atoms per particle and the optical densities at 415 nm and at the first exciton peak or plateau the band edge particle cross section is obtained. The band edge particle cross section is typically around 1.5 10cm.

From sample to sample the band edge cross section is affected by the size dispersion and the width of the exciton peak. This can be circumvented by using the integrated cross sections which may then be compared to theoretical oscillator strengths. To get the integrated cross section the band edge is fitted to a Gaussian giving square root over 2 where is the Gaussian standard deviation in cmdetermined for each sample. The results are shown in . The integrated cross section are in the 10 12 cm range with rather large error bars resulting from the uncertainty in the value of the uncertainty in the optical density at the band edge and the uncertainty in the volume of a quantum dot extracted from the XRD width.

For the absorption measurements of films as well as for photodetection the CQD are dispersed in hexane octane 9 1 and drop cast leading to homogeneous films of 50 nm thickness. Then the films are immersed in a 1 solution of ethanedithiol in ethanol for 1 min. As the bulky ligands are exchanged with shorter ones the molecular vibrational absorption is reduced the absorption slightly red shifted the thickness of the film decreases and the optical dielectric constant increases. To make thicker films the process is repeated several times. For absorption the films are drop cast on polished silicon wafers and their thickness is measured using an ellipsometer Gartner L116S while the film optical density is measured using an FTIR Nicolet magna IR 550 see the inset of . The optical absorption depth of the material is an important parameter for infrared detection. With self assembled epitaxial quantum dots a long standing problem has been the low volume fraction which results in a small absorption coefficient. Here the close packed colloidal dots give short absorption depths between 1 and 2 microns as shown in . The absorption coefficient of the CQD material is in fact similar to the one reported for bulk HgTe 5 10cm and HgCdTe alloys with the same cut off wavelength while the liquid processing of the colloidal quantum dots is a major advantage.

For photoconduction measurements the films are drop cast on to interdigitated planar Pt electrodes with 50 periods 10 m spacing and 5 mm length ABTech IME 1050 . The photocurrent spectra are acquired with a Nicolet Magna IR 550 FTIR and are normalized to the response of a DTGS detector. To investigate the effect of the temperature on the spectra the samples are mounted on the cold finger of a closed cycle He cryostat. Photocurrent spectra for different sizes and temperatures are presented in . shows the thermal shift of the band edge energy extracted from the photocurrent spectra shift. Using the empirical Varshni expression

Early work comparing small HgTe quantum dots with calculations based on the effective mass and the negative band gap predicted the 6 and 8 gap but not the optical gap. More recently k p calculations of HgTe spherical nanocrystals have been reported and include the mixing of the bands in the envelope functions. In a comparison with the experimental results indicates that prior work vastly overestimates the energies in particular for the smaller sizes. The 8 8 k p matrix leads to the numerically calculated band diagram shown in for the range of k vectors relevant to the particles in this study. Parameters used are summarized in Table 1. The photonic transition takes place between the two 8 bands in the HgTe CQD. solid line shows the expected tuning of the first exciton with size for a spherical HgTe particle where the momentum k of electron and hole wavefunctions are given by k Rwith Rthe nanoparticle radius. This neglect of band mixing in the envelope function should be appropriate in the limit of infinite confinement potential and nondegenerate band structure. The k p size tuning obtained here is in fair agreement with the experimental data within the errors in the size determination. The discrepancy with prior works might be due to the use of different parameters. In particular prior works used EG 0.3 eV while a room temperature value of EG 0.15 eV was used here.

For practical use empirical relations between the band gap in m and the particle size in nm is provided here 

To estimate a theoretical absorption coefficient for the films the integrated cross section expression in equation 6 is used. A FWHM of 15 is assumed which is consistent with the width of the band edge absorption to get a peak cross section . The film absorption coefficient is then taken as

The thermal shift of the absorption edge and its size dependence are shown in . Without wishing to be bound by theory a possible origin of the size dependence is the change of the band structure as the gap energy changes. shows the k p bulk bands at 80 and 300 K with the empirical value of the gap at that temperature. shows that k p leads to a red shift with decreasing temperature of the right order of magnitude but wrongly predicts an increase in the thermal shift with smaller sizes larger k in contradiction to observations. There is no reasonable choice of parameters that could reverse the trend. Since the size dependence of the temperature effect is not accounted for by simply changing the bulk bandgap parameter in the k p model one needs to look at the source of the thermal shift.

In general without wishing to be bound by theory the thermal shift of the gap is assigned to electron phonon effects and thermal lattice expansion such that E T E T E T . The thermal shift for CQDs can then be discussed by starting from the bulk properties and including the effect of confinement.

Thermal expansion The effect of lattice thermal expansion is given by the deformation potential D and the lattice expansion such that

Expansion of the lattice also changes the size of the particle which in turn will affect the band gap energy as

Electron phonon effects The remaining cause can be a change of the band edge energy due to electron phonon effects. At constant volume the energy of the electron wavefunction changes with temperature due to the interaction with phonons and depends on the electronic and phonon density of states. While the literature varies in the assessment of the accuracy of the electron phonon calculation in accounting for the bulk thermal shift of the mercury chalcogenides it is in fact apparent that it is the dominant contribution. The electron phonon coupling H treated in second order perturbation theory leads to an energy shift of an occupied electronic state n of the general form 

In summary presented herein are several optical properties of HgTe colloidal quantum dots that allow for tuning absorption from 2 to 5 microns at room temperature. The size tuning and the optical cross section of the colloidal solutions are reported. Films have also a strong optical absorption suitable for thin film photodetectors. The observations agree rather well with calculations using the k p model. The photodetection range of HgTe colloidal quantum dots thin films tunes with temperature and the shift is significant. For example the detection cut off tunes from 5 m at room temperature to 7 m at low temperature for the largest particles studied here. The magnitude of the shift decreases at small sizes and this is suggested to arise from the reduced electron phonon coupling at higher confinement energy.

The following examples are provided to illustrate the invention but are not intended to limit the scope thereof.

13 mg of tellurium powder Aldrich pieces 99.999 0.1 mmol are introduced with 2 mL of butanol Aldrich 99.8 anhydrous and 0.1 mL of trioctylphosphine TOP Aldrich technical grade 90 into a 50 mL round bottom three neck flask. The mixture is heated to 90 C. under argon and agitated for 20 minutes in order to dissolve the tellurium yielding a clear yellow solution. In the meantime 32 mg of mercury II acetate Aldrich 99.999 0.1 mmol white powder is dissolved in 2 mL of butanol and 2 mL pyridine Aldrich 99.98 anhydrous forming a clear colorless solution. Solutions of Hg II salts are toxic and should be handled carefully. The mercury solution is rapidly injected into the flask immediately forming an opaque black solution. The final particle size depends on the temperature of the flask at the time of injection of the Hg precursor ranging from 0 to 90 C. with larger particles and faster reaction at higher temperatures. The particles grow over a period of several minutes after which they precipitate and cannot be recovered. To monitor the progress of the reaction 1 mL aliquots were removed at intervals and quenched by injection into a room temperature solution of 0.1 mL dodecanethiol Aldrich 98 in 0.9 mL ethanol Pharmco Aaper 200 proof . The dodecanethiol quenches the reaction by binding the HgTe surface and Hg ion precursor. The solution is centrifuged and the precipitate is redispersed in tetrachloroethylene. Addition of acetonitrile Aldrich 98 anhydrous and centrifugation leads to a precipitate which redisperses readily again in tetrachloroethylene. It was found that acetonitrile removes excess ligands with only one precipitation. The product tetrachloroethylene solution is centrifuged to remove insoluble material and is then stable in ambient storage for weeks. TEM sample preparation was done by drop casting directly from a very dilute tetrachloroethylene solution.

HgTe nanoparticles were also synthesized as follows 0.1 mmol of HgClin oleylamine is heated under argon to 70 100 C. for 90 minutes before 0.1 mL 1M Te in trioctylphosphine TOP is quickly injected. When the desired size is reached indicated by the position of the optical absorption edge the reaction is quenched by extracting into a room temperature solution of 1 dodecanethiol and TOP in tetrachloroethylene. The size can be tuned to larger particles and longer wavelength by lengthening the time of the reaction.

Films were made by simply drop casting directly in air the concentrated tetrachloroethylene solution. Drying takes several minutes and was found to produce a more homogeneous film over the active area by elevating one end of the substrate slightly to advance the drying edge in one direction. From ellipsometry measurements of thin films on Si substrates the dielectric constant of the films is 2.1. The film thicknesses are measured with an Atomic Force Microscope Digital instruments Nanoscope IIIa and a fine scratch made with a razor blade. Electrical measurements were performed on glass substrates with platinum interdigitated electrodes ABTech IME 1050 4.9 mm length 10 m spacing and width 50 periods . For noise measurements the sample is placed in a Wheatstone bridge configuration powered by a battery. The bridge output is amplified National Semiconductor LF356 and read by a spectrum analyzer.

The spectral responses are obtained with a home made step scan interferometer with gold mirrors. The beamsplitter is based on CaFwith a long wavelength cut off of 8.5 m. The illumination is provided by a 1.0 3.8 mm SiC source element Oriel 80030 heated to 1200 C. The samples are mounted on the cold finger of a closed cycle cryostat and surrounded by a cold shield.

The carrier properties have been tested using FET and electrochemical charging. The electrochromic effect may be of some interest as well for cloaking. shows the change of the optical spectra as the HgTe dots are doped p type. The bleach negative absorbance takes place at the absorption edge of the dots while an induced absorption takes place at the hole intraband transitions. Therefore the sample looks cooler at 3 microns and hotter from 10 to 15 microns. The electrochromic effects of increasing hole injection left and electron injection right are shown for a film of HgTe dots with an infrared interband absorption at 3 microns arrow position .

The foregoing description is given for clearness of understanding only and no unnecessary limitations should be understood therefrom as modifications within the scope of the invention may be apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art.

