---

title: Intelligent prioritization of activated extensions
abstract: Extension prioritization may be provided. Upon opening a document in a software application, a determination may be made whether the document satisfies a respective activation rule for each of a plurality of application extensions associated with the software application. In response to determining that the document satisfies a respective activation rule for each of a plurality of application extensions associated with the software application a priority may be identified for each of the plurality of application extensions and a user interface element associated with at least one of the plurality of application extensions may be displayed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08843822&OS=08843822&RS=08843822
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08843822
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120130
---
Related U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 361 097 filed on Jan. 30 2012 and entitled Extension Activation for Related Documents assigned to the assignee of the present application is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Related U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 361 140 filed on Jan. 30 2012 and entitled Dynamic Extension View With Multiple Levels of Expansion assigned to the assignee of the present application is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Extension prioritization may be provided. Software application extensions are computer executable programming modules that may provide additional information displays and or functionality to existing software applications. In conventional systems these extensions can be difficult to manage via a traditional menu or multi pane structure. In many situations extension lists are presented to end users in a rectangular pane wherein multiple contextual extensions may be shown at once. Since each extension needs its own rectangular pane to provide information or functionality to the user showing multiple extensions can quickly clutter the host application s user interface.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter. Neither is this Summary intended to be used to limit the claimed subject matter s scope.

Extension prioritization may be provided. Upon opening a document in a software application a determination may be made whether the document satisfies a respective activation rule for each of a plurality of application extensions associated with the software application. In response to determining that the document satisfies a respective activation rule for each of a plurality of application extensions associated with the software application a priority may be identified for each of the plurality of application extensions and a user interface element associated with at least one of the plurality of application extensions may be displayed.

Both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description provide examples and are explanatory only. Accordingly the foregoing general description and the following detailed description should not be considered to be restrictive. Further features or variations may be provided in addition to those set forth herein. For example embodiments may be directed to various feature combinations and sub combinations described in the detailed description.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers are used in the drawings and the following description to refer to the same or similar elements. While embodiments of the invention may be described modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible. For example substitutions additions or modifications may be made to the elements illustrated in the drawings and the methods described herein may be modified by substituting reordering or adding stages to the disclosed methods. Accordingly the following detailed description does not limit the invention.

Software application extensions are computer executable program modules that may provide additional information displays and or functionality to existing software applications. Such extensions may be distributed by the original developer of the software application and or developed by companies and or individuals not associated with the original developer of the software applications. For example a third party may develop a mapping extension for use in an e mail application. Such extensions may be activated within the user interface of the software application and or may be displayed in new user interface panes e.g. a separate window. 

Extensions may be activated by trigger conditions such as those described in the related co pending application entitled Inference Based Extension Activation filed on Dec. 9 2011 and having Ser. No. 13 315 314 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. For example documents opened within the software application may result in multiple extensions being activated. Such extensions may be displayed according to an ordering scheme that assists users in focusing on extensions that may be more meaningful and or important in the context of the document being read.

Contextual extensions may be activated based on rules that are defined in the extension s manifest file. Rules may comprise the type of item the user is currently looking at e.g. activate this extension if the item is a message and or whether some trigger information can be found in the item s body e.g. activate this extension if the item s body contains a hyperlink . The more restrictive the rule the fewer items will actually contain the trigger information. An ordering scheme may therefore assume that more restrictive rules are associated with higher priority extensions. Such higher priority extensions may be displayed more prominently than an extension without such a rule. The ordering scheme may take into account other factors such as alphabetical order order of installation and or explicit application programming interface API calls to request a priority level.

As an example a document may be scanned to determine if assorted application extensions may be activated. Extension A may activates if the item being read is a message and if its body contains a video link Extension B may activate if the item being read is a message Extension C may activate if the item being read is a message AND if its body contains a phone number and Extension D may activate if the item being read is a message. Extension B and Extension D are much more likely to activate than Extension A and Extension C. Thus Extension B and D may comprise frequent extensions and Extension A and C may comprise infrequent extensions. 

A user interface UI may display activated extensions in a tabular interface according to display rules such as infrequent extensions may be shown first in alphabetical order followed by frequent extensions in alphabetical order alphabetical order order of installation and or order of most recent use. For example given the example extension activation triggers above the interface may display a tabular interface such as Extension A Extension C Extension B Extension D. Furthermore in an effort to declutter the UI the full list of activated extensions may not be shown. Instead text such as Show N more extensions may be displayed where is the name of the first infrequent extension in alphabetical order and N the number of additional activated extensions. In the above example the text may read Show Extension A 3 more extensions . This intelligent ordering allows the user to view the name of the extension determined to be most relevant. By choosing to show the name of an infrequent extension the UI provides more valuable information to the end user by default.

UI element may list the name of an available extension and may also indicate the number of additional extensions that are available. For example if only one extension is available UI element may read Show . If more than one extension is available UI element may read Show N more extensions. When UI element is clicked by a user an extension pane may be expanded as illustrated in below and display the content of the extension that is explicitly named in the entry point. In at least some embodiments of the invention selection of UI element may result in display of a tabular interface comprising a tab for each of the available extensions.

Method may then advance to stage where computing device may retrieve a plurality of activation triggers. For example each of the plurality of activation triggers may be associated with an application extension for the software application. Such triggers may be stored in configuration manifests associated with each of the plurality of application extensions.

Method may then advance to stage where computing device may determine whether the document satisfies a respective activation rule for at least a subset of a plurality of application extensions associated with the software application. For example a plurality of application extensions in extension repository may be associated with document processing application . The related documents may comprise for example a thread of email messages that may be scanned to determine whether content of at least one of those messages satisfies an activation trigger for one and or more of the application extensions such as where an address block triggers a map display application extension. Each message may comprise elements that trigger more than one of application extensions such as where a time and date element triggers a meeting setup extension a suggested location triggers a map extension and contact information in a signature block triggers an add contact extension.

If the document is determined to satisfy a respective activation rule for at least the subset of the plurality of application extensions associated with the software application method may advance to stage where computing device may identify a priority for each of at least the subset of the plurality of application extensions. For example the identified priority may be based on an order of satisfying at least one of the plurality of activation triggers in the document e.g. the earlier in the document the trigger is satisfied the higher the priority an order of installation of each of the extensions a frequency of activation of each of the extensions a priority defined by the document a priority defined by the software application and or a placement of an element in the document that satisfies the activation trigger.

Method may then advance to stage where computing device may display a tabular interface comprising a plurality of tabs each associated with a one of at least the subset of the plurality of application extensions. For example tabular interface may display selectable tabs for each extension which may be ordered from left to right according to the priority identified for each of the extensions. Method may then end at stage .

An embodiment consistent with the invention may comprise a system for providing application extension management. The system may comprise a memory storage and a processing unit coupled to the memory storage. The processing unit may be operative to open a document in a software application and determine whether the document satisfies a respective activation rule for each of a plurality of application extensions associated with the software application. In response to determining that the document satisfies a respective activation rule for each of a plurality of application extensions associated with the software application the processing unit may be operative to identify a priority for each of the plurality of application extensions and display a user interface element associated with at least one of the plurality of application extensions.

Another embodiment consistent with the invention may comprise a system for providing extension prioritization. The system may comprise a memory storage and a processing unit coupled to the memory storage. The processing unit may be operative to open at least one document in a software application retrieve a plurality of activation triggers wherein each of the plurality of activation triggers is associated with an extension for the software application and determine whether at least a subset of the plurality of activation triggers is satisfied by the at least one document. In response to determining that the at least a subset of the plurality of activation triggers is satisfied by the at least one document the processing unit may be operative to identify a priority for each extension associated with each of the at least a subset of the plurality of activation triggers and display a user interface element associated with the extension associated with a one of the at least a subset of the plurality of activation triggers comprising a highest priority.

Yet another embodiment consistent with the invention may comprise a system for providing extension prioritization. The system may comprise a memory storage and a processing unit coupled to the memory storage. The processing unit may be operative to open a document in a software application operative to display at least a list of a plurality of documents retrieve a plurality of activation triggers each of which may be associated with at least one of a plurality of application extensions for the software application and determine whether the document satisfies a respective activation rule for at least a subset of a plurality of application extensions associated with the software application. In response to determining that the document satisfies a respective activation rule for at least the subset of the plurality of application extensions associated with the software application the processing unit may be operative to identify a priority for each of at least the subset of the plurality of application extensions and display a tabular interface comprising a plurality of tabs each associated with a one of at least the subset of the plurality of application extensions wherein the plurality of tabs are ordered from left to right according to the priority identified for each of the extensions.

The embodiments and functionalities described herein may operate via a multitude of computing systems including wired and wireless computing systems mobile computing systems e.g. mobile telephones tablet or slate type computers laptop computers etc. . In addition the embodiments and functionalities described herein may operate over distributed systems where application functionality memory data storage and retrieval and various processing functions may be operated remotely from each other over a distributed computing network such as the Internet or an intranet. User interfaces and information of various types may be displayed via on board computing device displays or via remote display units associated with one or more computing devices. For example user interfaces and information of various types may be displayed and interacted with on a wall surface onto which user interfaces and information of various types are projected. Interaction with the multitude of computing systems with which embodiments of the invention may be practiced include keystroke entry touch screen entry voice or other audio entry gesture entry where an associated computing device is equipped with detection e.g. camera functionality for capturing and interpreting user gestures for controlling the functionality of the computing device and the like. and the associated descriptions provide a discussion of a variety of operating environments in which embodiments of the invention may be practiced. However the devices and systems illustrated and discussed with respect to are for purposes of example and illustration and are not limiting of a vast number of computing device configurations that may be utilized for practicing embodiments of the invention described herein.

With reference to a system consistent with an embodiment of the invention may include a computing device such as computing device . In a basic configuration computing device may include at least one processing unit and a system memory . Depending on the configuration and type of computing device system memory may comprise but is not limited to volatile e.g. random access memory RAM non volatile e.g. read only memory ROM flash memory or any combination. System memory may include operating system one or more programming modules and may include document processing application . Operating system for example may be suitable for controlling computing device s operation. Furthermore embodiments of the invention may be practiced in conjunction with a graphics library other operating systems or any other application program and is not limited to any particular application or system. This basic configuration is illustrated in by those components within a dashed line .

Computing device may have additional features or functionality. For example computing device may also include additional data storage devices removable and or non removable such as for example magnetic disks optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by a removable storage and a non removable storage . Computing device may also contain a communication connection that may allow device to communicate with other computing devices such as over a network in a distributed computing environment for example an intranet or the Internet. Communication connection is one example of communication media.

The term computer readable media as used herein may include computer storage media. Computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all computer storage media examples i.e. memory storage. Computer storage media may include but is not limited to RAM ROM electrically erasable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device . Computing device may also have input device s such as a keyboard a mouse a pen a sound input device a touch input device a capture device etc. A capture device may be operative to record a user and capture spoken words motions and or gestures made by the user such as with a camera and or microphone. The capture device may comprise any speech and or motion detection device capable of detecting the speech and or actions of the user. For example the capture device may comprise a Microsoft Kinect motion capture device comprising a plurality of cameras and a plurality of microphones. Output device s such as a display speakers a printer etc. may also be included. The aforementioned devices are examples and others may be used.

The term computer readable media as used herein may also include communication media. Communication media may be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may describe a signal that has one or more characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media.

As stated above a number of program modules and data files may be stored in system memory including operating system . While executing on processing unit programming modules may perform processes and or methods as described above. The aforementioned process is an example and processing unit may perform other processes. Other programming modules that may be used in accordance with embodiments of the present invention may include electronic mail and contacts applications word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications slide presentation applications drawing or computer aided application programs etc.

Generally consistent with embodiments of the invention program modules may include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that may perform particular tasks or that may implement particular abstract data types. Moreover embodiments of the invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Embodiments of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Furthermore embodiments of the invention may be practiced in an electrical circuit comprising discrete electronic elements packaged or integrated electronic chips containing logic gates a circuit utilizing a microprocessor or on a single chip containing electronic elements or microprocessors. Embodiments of the invention may also be practiced using other technologies capable of performing logical operations such as for example AND OR and NOT including but not limited to mechanical optical fluidic and quantum technologies. In addition embodiments of the invention may be practiced within a general purpose computer or in any other circuits or systems.

Embodiments of the invention for example may be implemented as a computer process method a computing system or as an article of manufacture such as a computer program product or computer readable media. The computer program product may be a computer storage media readable by a computer system and encoding a computer program of instructions for executing a computer process. The computer program product may also be a propagated signal on a carrier readable by a computing system and encoding a computer program of instructions for executing a computer process. Accordingly the present invention may be embodied in hardware and or in software including firmware resident software micro code etc. . In other words embodiments of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable or computer readable storage medium having computer usable or computer readable program code embodied in the medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system. A computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific computer readable medium examples a non exhaustive list the computer readable medium may include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber and a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM . Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

Embodiments of the invention may be practiced via a system on a chip SOC where each and or many of the components illustrated above may be integrated onto a single integrated circuit. Such an SOC device may include one or more processing units graphics units communications units system virtualization units and various application functionalities all of which may be integrated or burned onto the chip substrate as a single integrated circuit. When operating via an SOC the functionality described herein with respect to training and or interacting with any component of operating environment may operate via application specific logic integrated with other components of the computing device system on the single integrated circuit chip .

Embodiments of the present invention for example are described above with reference to block diagrams and or operational illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. The functions acts noted in the blocks may occur out of the order as shown in any flowchart. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

While certain embodiments of the invention have been described other embodiments may exist. Furthermore although embodiments of the present invention have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage mediums data can also be stored on or read from other types of computer readable media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks or a CD ROM a carrier wave from the Internet or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further the disclosed methods stages may be modified in any manner including by reordering stages and or inserting or deleting stages without departing from the invention.

All rights including copyrights in the code included herein are vested in and the property of the Applicants. The Applicants retain and reserve all rights in the code included herein and grant permission to reproduce the material only in connection with reproduction of the granted patent and for no other purpose.

While certain embodiments of the invention have been described other embodiments may exist. While the specification includes examples the invention s scope is indicated by the following claims. Furthermore while the specification has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts the claims are not limited to the features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example for embodiments of the invention.

