---

title: Obtaining a geo-fence without a network download
abstract: Methods and systems for providing and obtaining a geo-fence without a network download are disclosed. An embodiment generates geo-fence parameters and encodes the geo-fence parameters on a portable storage media, wherein the geo-fence parameters are transferred to a location-enabled mobile device when the location-enabled mobile device scans the portable storage media. An embodiment scans, by a location-enabled mobile device, a portable storage media, wherein the portable storage media stores geo-fence parameters, and wherein scanning the portable storage media transfers the geo-fence parameters to the location-enabled mobile device. An embodiment includes a non-transitory portable storage media comprising geo-fence parameters, including a perimeter of a geo-fence and one or more alert conditions associated with the perimeter of the geo-fence, wherein scanning the portable storage media transfers the geo-fence parameters to a location-enabled mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09363635&OS=09363635&RS=09363635
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09363635
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121108
---
When a cell phone user is near the boundary of a geo fence and the geo fence is relevant to the user the user may wish to load the geo fence onto the cell phone or any other mobile device capable of determining its geographic location . Typically the cell phone must establish a network connection in order to download the geo fence. However the cell phone may not be able to establish a network connection or the user may not wish to establish a network connection. Further the user may not be aware that a geo fence is available for that location.

Accordingly it would be beneficial if the user were presented with a sign near the geo fenced area that indicated that a geo fence is available and provided a way to obtain the geo fence parameters without requiring a network connection.

The disclosure is directed to providing and obtaining a geo fence without a network download. An embodiment generates geo fence parameters and encodes the geo fence parameters on a portable storage media wherein the geo fence parameters are transferred to a location enabled mobile device when the location enabled mobile device scans the portable storage media. An embodiment scans by a location enabled mobile device a portable storage media wherein the portable storage media stores geo fence parameters and wherein scanning the portable storage media transfers the geo fence parameters to the location enabled mobile device. An embodiment includes a non transitory portable storage media comprising geo fence parameters including a perimeter of a geo fence and one or more alert conditions associated with the perimeter of the geo fence wherein scanning the portable storage media transfers the geo fence parameters to a location enabled mobile device.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A client device referred to herein as a user equipment UE may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with a radio access network RAN . As used herein the term UE may be referred to interchangeably as an access terminal or AT a wireless device a subscriber device a subscriber terminal a subscriber station a user terminal or UT a mobile terminal a mobile station and variations thereof. Generally UEs can communicate with a core network via the RAN and through the core network the UEs can be connected with external networks such as the Internet. Of course other mechanisms of connecting to the core network and or the Internet are also possible for the UEs such as over wired access networks WiFi networks e.g. based on IEEE 802.11 etc. and so on. UEs can be embodied by any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC cards compact flash devices external or internal modems wireless or wireline phones and so on. A communication link through which UEs can send signals to the RAN is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a reverse control channel an access channel etc. . A communication link through which the RAN can send signals to UEs is called a downlink or forward link channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. . As used herein the term traffic channel TCH can refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

Referring to UEs . . . N are configured to communicate with a RAN over a physical communications interface or layer shown in as air interfaces and or a direct wired connection. The air interfaces and can comply with a given cellular communications protocol e.g. CDMA EVDO eHRPD GSM EDGE W CDMA LTE etc. while the air interface can comply with a wireless IP protocol e.g. IEEE 802.11 . The RAN includes a plurality of access points that serve UEs over air interfaces such as the air interfaces and . The access points in the RAN can be referred to as access nodes or ANs access points or APs base stations or BSs Node Bs eNode Bs and so on. These access points can be terrestrial access points or ground stations or satellite access points. The RAN is configured to connect to a core network that can perform a variety of functions including bridging circuit switched CS calls between UEs served by the RAN and other UEs served by the RAN or a different RAN altogether and can also mediate an exchange of packet switched PS data with external networks such as Internet . The Internet includes a number of routing agents and processing agents not shown in for the sake of convenience . In UE N is shown as connecting to the Internet directly i.e. separate from the core network such as over an Ethernet connection of WiFi or 802.11 based network . The Internet can thereby function to bridge packet switched data communications between UE N and UEs . . . N via the core network . Also shown in is an access point that is separate from the RAN . The access point may be connected to the Internet independent of the core network e.g. via an optical communication system such as FiOS a cable modem etc. . The air interface may serve UE or UE over a local wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11 in an example. UE N is shown as a desktop computer with a wired connection to the Internet such as a direct connection to a modem or router which can correspond to the access point itself e.g. for a WiFi router with both wired and wireless connectivity .

Referring to an application server is shown as connected to the Internet the core network or both. The application server can be implemented as a plurality of structurally separate servers or alternately may correspond to a single server. As will be described below in more detail the application server is configured to support one or more communication services e.g. Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP sessions Push to Talk PTT sessions group communication sessions social networking services etc. for UEs that can connect to the application server via the core network and or the Internet .

While internal components of UEs such as the UEs A and B can be embodied with different hardware configurations a basic high level UE configuration for internal hardware components is shown as platform in . The platform can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks e.g. application server web uniform resource locators URLs etc. . The platform can also independently execute locally stored applications without RAN interaction. The platform can include a GPS receiver or other receiver for satellite navigation and transceiver operably coupled to an ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only memory ROM or random access memory RAM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can store applications not actively used in memory as well as other data. The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like.

The UEs A and B can obtain their geographic position via various satellite based positioning systems known in the art such as GPS assisted GPS A GPS SPS GLONASS etc. The UEs A and B may also augment the satellite based positioning with terrestrial radio frequency RF signals such as wide area augmentation system WAAS differential global positioning system DGPS etc. as is known in the art. The UEs A and B may also use an inertial navigation system INS to determine or augment its position. A UE that can determine its geographic position such as UEs A and B is a location enabled UE. In this disclosure the terms geographic location and geographic position are used interchangeably.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a UE e.g. UE A B etc. including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UEs A and B in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the UEs A and or B and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the UEs A and B from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Referring to the communication device includes logic configured to receive and or transmit information . In an example if the communication device corresponds to a wireless communications device e.g. UE A or B etc. the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include a wireless communications interface e.g. Bluetooth WiFi 2G CDMA W CDMA 3G 4G LTE etc. such as a wireless transceiver and associated hardware e.g. a radio frequency RF antenna a MODEM a modulator and or demodulator etc. . In another example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to a wired communications interface e.g. a serial connection a universal serial bus USB or Firewire connection an Ethernet connection through which the Internet can be accessed etc. . Thus if the communication device corresponds to some type of network based server e.g. the application server the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can correspond to an Ethernet card in an example that connects the network based server to other communication entities via an Ethernet protocol. In a further example the logic configured to receive and or transmit information can include sensory or measurement hardware by which the communication device can monitor its local environment e.g. an accelerometer a temperature sensor a light sensor an antenna for monitoring local RF signals etc. . The logic configured to receive and or transmit information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive and or transmit information to perform its reception and or transmission function s . However the logic configured to receive and or transmit information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive and or transmit information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to process information . In an example the logic configured to process information can include at least a processor. Example implementations of the type of processing that can be performed by the logic configured to process information includes but is not limited to performing determinations establishing connections making selections between different information options performing evaluations related to data interacting with sensors coupled to the communication device to perform measurement operations converting information from one format to another e.g. between different protocols such as .wmv to .avi etc. and so on. For example the processor included in the logic configured to process information can correspond to a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. The logic configured to process information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to process information to perform its processing function s . However the logic configured to process information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to process information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further includes logic configured to store information . In an example the logic configured to store information can include at least a non transitory memory and associated hardware e.g. a memory controller etc. . For example the non transitory memory included in the logic configured to store information can correspond to RAM memory flash memory ROM memory erasable programmable ROM EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. The logic configured to store information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to store information to perform its storage function s . However the logic configured to store information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to store information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to present information . In an example the logic configured to present information can include at least an output device and associated hardware. For example the output device can include a video output device e.g. a display screen a port that can carry video information such as USB high definition multimedia interface HDMI etc. an audio output device e.g. speakers a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack USB HDMI etc. a vibration device and or any other device by which information can be formatted for output or actually outputted by a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to present information can include the display A of UE A or the touchscreen display B of UE B. In a further example the logic configured to present information can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to present information can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to present information to perform its presentation function s . However the logic configured to present information does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to present information relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to the communication device further optionally includes logic configured to receive local user input . In an example the logic configured to receive local user input can include at least a user input device and associated hardware. For example the user input device can include buttons a touchscreen display a keyboard a camera an audio input device e.g. a microphone or a port that can carry audio information such as a microphone jack etc. and or any other device by which information can be received from a user or operator of the communication device . For example if the communication device corresponds to UE A or UE B as shown in the logic configured to receive local user input can include the keypad A any of the buttons A or B through B the touchscreen display B etc. In a further example the logic configured to receive local user input can be omitted for certain communication devices such as network communication devices that do not have a local user e.g. network switches or routers remote servers etc. . The logic configured to receive local user input can also include software that when executed permits the associated hardware of the logic configured to receive local user input to perform its input reception function s . However the logic configured to receive local user input does not correspond to software alone and the logic configured to receive local user input relies at least in part upon hardware to achieve its functionality.

Referring to while the configured logics of through are shown as separate or distinct blocks in it will be appreciated that the hardware and or software by which the respective configured logic performs its functionality can overlap in part. For example any software used to facilitate the functionality of the configured logics of through can be stored in the non transitory memory associated with the logic configured to store information such that the configured logics of through each performs their functionality i.e. in this case software execution based in part upon the operation of software stored by the logic configured to store information . Likewise hardware that is directly associated with one of the configured logics can be borrowed or used by other configured logics from time to time. For example the processor of the logic configured to process information can format data into an appropriate format before being transmitted by the logic configured to receive and or transmit information such that the logic configured to receive and or transmit information performs its functionality i.e. in this case transmission of data based in part upon the operation of hardware i.e. the processor associated with the logic configured to process information .

Generally unless stated otherwise explicitly the phrase logic configured to as used throughout this disclosure is intended to invoke an embodiment that is at least partially implemented with hardware and is not intended to map to software only implementations that are independent of hardware. Also it will be appreciated that the configured logic or logic configured to in the various blocks are not limited to specific logic gates or elements but generally refer to the ability to perform the functionality described herein either via hardware or a combination of hardware and software . Thus the configured logics or logic configured to as illustrated in the various blocks are not necessarily implemented as logic gates or logic elements despite sharing the word logic. Other interactions or cooperation between the logic in the various blocks will become clear to one of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the embodiments described below in more detail.

When a cell phone user is near the boundary of a geo fence and the geo fence is relevant to the user the user may wish to load the geo fence onto the cell phone or any other mobile device capable of determining its geographic position i.e. a location enabled mobile device . Typically the cell phone must establish a network connection in order to download the geo fence. However the cell phone may not be able to establish a network connection or the user may not wish to establish a network connection. Further the user may not be aware that a geo fence is available for that location.

Accordingly it would be beneficial if the user was presented with a sign near the geo fenced area that indicated that a geo fence is available and provided a way to obtain the geo fence parameters without requiring a network connection.

The various embodiments provide a matrix barcode such as a quick response QR code a radio frequency identification RFID tag a near field communication NFC transmitter or other similar storage media that stores the parameters of a geo fence. Such a storage media does not require the UE to connect to a network in order to read the media or obtain the geo fence parameters. The media can be affixed to or printed on a sign which can describe the geo fence and include any other information desired by the sign poster. One or more such signs can be positioned at or near the entrance s to or boundaries of the geo fence and or at various locations within the geo fence.

The parameters of the geo fence can include not only the boundaries of the geo fence but also one or more alert conditions associated with the geo fence such as an entering breach an exiting breach an alert for remaining within a boundary for more than a specified time an alert for leaving a boundary for more than a specified time an alert for entering or exiting a boundary at the wrong time of the day week month year etc.

The various embodiments may be beneficial in a number of different types of situations. For example the storage media could be affixed to signs placed at the entrance s to private property such as a stately home parklands of a palace or castle privately owned lands with limited public access etc. or a public building with limited access to certain areas such as a museum hospital or government office. The geo fence could be quite complicated marking out pathways corridors rooms fields and or other areas where access is permitted surrounded by private areas where access is not permitted. The geo fence could be used to trigger an alert if the visitor leaves a public area and enters a restricted access area therefore committing a trespass.

As another example a user may wish to know if his or her car is removed from a parking lot without permission but may not care if the car is moved within the lot such as for washing or valeting. The storage media could be affixed to a sign at the entrance to the parking lot and the user could scan it with a positioning device such as a GPS receiver that would be left in the car. The user could obtain the receiver from the parking lot attendant or purchase it from a third party. The receiver would track the position of the vehicle and send an alert to the user s cell phone if the car is removed from the lot.

Similarly a positioning device can be attached to a shipping crate or other container and as the container is loaded into a warehouse or store distribution center construction site etc. the positioning device would scan the storage media to obtain a geo fence of the warehouse. This process could be fully automated and performed by robotic cranes moving the containers.

In yet another example players in a game such as paintball may wear positioning devices loaded with a geo fence of the game boundaries. The positioning device may alert just the player the game referee or both if the player breaches a boundary. Further each team could have their own geo fence boundaries and the boundaries could change during gameplay. For instance if a player makes it to a certain point on the game field he or she may be able to scan another storage media to load a different geo fence.

As another example the storage media could be affixed to signs placed at the entrance s to a store. Upon entering the store shoppers could scan the storage media to obtain the geo fence which would include boundaries near the entrances and exits to the store. When a shopper crosses the boundary he or she would receive a reminder to check that he or she is not accidentally leaving the shopping floor without clearing any goods at the checkout thus preventing inadvertent shoplifting.

As yet another example an amusement park may provide different ticket prices for different areas of the park. Upon entering the park visitors could scan the storage media and obtain a geo fence defining the boundaries of the park to which the visitors tickets give access. The geo fence parameters may also define a period of time for which the visitors ticket is valid and alert the visitors or park operators if the visitors remain in an area longer than the time for which they paid. The period of time could be a specific number of hours days weeks etc. or a time of the day week month etc.

The various embodiments also provide for encryption so that a user cannot make and scan their own QR code or RFID tag or NFC transmitter to cheat the system. In the amusement park example for instance encryption would prevent a visitor from purchasing a cheap ticket to enter the park then scanning a counterfeit QR code that would give the visitor access to more of the park than he or she paid for. Likewise in the parking lot example encryption would prevent a car thief from breaking into a car and scanning a counterfeit QR code that would alter the previously stored geo fence parameters e.g. removing the alarm parameters changing the geographic area etc. .

The foregoing are merely examples of situations in which the various embodiments could be beneficial. It is apparent that there are many other situations in which the various embodiments would be beneficial and accordingly this disclosure is not limited to the examples given.

As discussed above the various embodiments present geo fence description data for optical scanning using a matrix barcode for wireless reading using an RFID tag or for wireless reading using an NFC transmitter. In practice RFID tags and NFC transmitters are very similar. The distinction is that an NFC transmitter permits two way communication. This allows the user to be prompted for information such as choosing which geo fence to select or which alert method to use and in response to receive the relevant data from the same transmitter. In contrast communication with an RFID tag is one way. As such to present the user with options the user would have to be presented with multiple RFID tags and it would be up to the user to select the right one.

All three systems have the advantage that they do not require a power source to run. Specifically matrix barcodes are ink on paper and RFID tags and NFC transmitters are powered by radio waves from the device scanning them. While the exemplary embodiments are generally described with reference to matrix barcodes the RFID tag and NFC transmitter embodiments are the same except that the data delivery method is different i.e. radio waves instead of optical .

The geo fence can be traced on a map and the coordinates encoded into a text string used to generate the matrix barcode or provided as a data packet in an RFID tag or NFC transmitter. The coordinates can be encoded in one or more of a variety of ways such as 

At the application converts the geo fence parameters to a matrix barcode here a QR code. Although illustrates the geo fence parameters encoded as a QR code the application can convert the geo fence parameters to any matrix barcode or a data packet for an RFID tag or an NFC transmitter instead or additionally. Such a data packet could then be loaded onto the RFID tag or NFC transmitter.

At the user prints the QR code on one or more signs. Alternatively the user could print the QR code as a sticker and affix it to the sign s . If the geo fence parameters are encoded in an RFID tag or an NFC transmitter the RFID tag or NFC transmitter could be attached to the sign s by an adhesive.

At the user posts the sign s at one or more locations near the boundaries of the geo fence. For example the user may place signs at the entrance s exit s and or off limits areas.

At a visitor scans the QR code or RFID tag or NFC transmitter with his or her UE to obtain the geo fence parameters. The UE converts the scanned geo fence parameters to a format the UE can compare to its current position. The UE may obtain its position via any UE positioning system known in the art such as GPS A GPS SPS GLONASS etc. The UE may also augment the satellite based positioning with terrestrial RF signals such as WAAS DGPS etc. as is known in the art. The UE begins periodically comparing its position with the geo fence boundaries.

At the UE detects that it has satisfied the alert condition s obtained in the geo fence parameters. In the example of the geo fence parameters include an exit alert and the UE has satisfied the alert condition by leaving the geo fence boundary. The UE issues the alert which may be displayed to the user on the UE s UI and or transmitted to a third party such as a security officer for the geo fenced area.

There are a number of ways the geo fence parameters can be removed from the UE. The user may delete the geo fence from the UE via the UI or the user may scan another QR code or RFID tag or NFC transmitter near the exit of the geo fenced area that instructs the UE to delete the geo fence parameters. Alternatively the geo fence parameters may expire after a period of time or the UE may automatically delete the geo fence parameters once it is a threshold distance away from the geo fence. Alternatively a third party may signal the UE to delete the geo fence parameters.

At the application converts the geo fence parameters to a matrix barcode RFID data packet NFC data packet and or other similar storage media data packet. At the application prints the matrix barcode and or encodes the data packet onto the RFID tag and or NFC transmitter. Alternatively the application may transmit the matrix barcode and or data packet to another device to print the matrix barcode and or encode the data packet onto the RFID tag and or NFC transmitter.

At a location enabled wireless mobile device scans the matrix barcode RFID tag or NFC transmitter to obtain the geo fence parameters. The wireless mobile device converts the scanned geo fence parameters to a format the wireless mobile device can compare to information about its current state. The wireless mobile device may be a cell phone tablet computer PDA or any other location enabled personal wireless mobile device. Alternatively the wireless mobile device may be a location enabled device provided to a user by a third party for the specific purpose of tracking that user s movements within a geo fenced area. The third party may be a vendor with no direct relation to the geo fenced area and the wireless mobile device may be an off the shelf product intended to be used for multiple different geo fenced areas. Alternatively the operator of the geo fenced area may provide each visitor with a wireless mobile device and the visitor or local personnel can scan the appropriate geo fence storage media based on the visitor s ticket and or purchase options.

At the wireless mobile device determines its current state. The state of the wireless mobile device can include its current location the amount of time that has elapsed since it entered or exited the geo fence boundary the current time day month and or year etc. If the geo fence parameters include an amount of time permitted inside or outside the geo fence boundaries the wireless mobile device may track the amount of time that has elapsed since it entered or exited the geo fence boundary with a counter. The wireless mobile device can increment the counter from 0 or decrement the counter from the amount of time specified by the geo fence parameter.

At the wireless mobile device compares its current state to the geo fence parameters. For instance the wireless mobile device compares its current location to the geo fence boundaries the length of time permitted inside or outside the boundaries to the length of time it has been inside or outside the boundaries the time of day week month year to the time of day week month year the boundaries are to be enforced etc. For example if the geo fence parameters include a length of time the user is permitted to be inside the geo fence boundaries the wireless mobile device will compare the value of the incrementing counter to the time given in the geo fence parameters.

At the wireless mobile device determines whether its current state breaches the geo fence parameters. In determining its position the wireless mobile device can optionally check the accuracy of its position. If the accuracy is above a threshold the wireless mobile device uses that location value to determine whether its current state breaches the geo fence parameters. If the accuracy of its position is below the threshold the wireless mobile device tries to obtain a more accurate position by for example augmenting the GPS signals with terrestrial RF signals and or INS as is known in the art. If the wireless mobile device is unable to obtain a more accurate position it proceeds with the lower accuracy position.

If the current state of the wireless mobile device does not breach the geo fence parameters then the flow returns to . If it does however then the flow proceeds to . For example if the wireless mobile device s current location is within the geo fence boundaries but the counter tracking the amount of time permitted inside the geo fence perimeter has expired i.e. is 0 or greater than the permitted time then the wireless mobile device determines that it has breached the geo fence parameters.

At the wireless mobile device issues an alert. The type of alert may be defined in the geo fence parameters or by an application installed on the wireless mobile device. The alert may be displayed and or played locally and or remotely. A local alert may be an audible visual and or tactile alert. For example the wireless mobile device may display a message that the user is outside the geo fence perimeter or has stayed within the perimeter too long. The message may be accompanied by a sound and or vibration to draw the user s attention to the message.

A remote alert may be a text message an email a popup window an audible visual or tactile alarm etc. transmitted to and displayed on a remote device. For example if a remote party such as a security officer for the geo fenced area is monitoring users carrying wireless mobile devices loaded with the geo fence parameters the wireless mobile device can send the alert to the remote device. The alert can include the type of breach e.g. entry exit inside time expiration outside time expiration the location of the breach the time of the breach the length of the breach for inside outside alerts if the perimeter is reentered or exited the identity of the breaching user and or the breaching device etc.

After the wireless mobile device issues the alert the flow returns to to determine whether the user has cured the breach and or to track further statistics of the breach.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a DSP an ASIC an FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. UE . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

