---

title: Systems and methods for searching for media content
abstract: Methods and systems for collecting, aggregating and displaying social media content are provided. Social media content can be aggregated from multiple social media providers and presented to a user as a social stream, which can be grouped and/or filtered. In some cases a user can view social media content grouped by social entity, social contributor and/or social tag.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09081777&OS=09081777&RS=09081777
owner: CMN, Inc.
number: 09081777
owner_city: Chevy Chase
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121120
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 562 993 SOCIAL MEDIA AGGREGATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS filed Nov. 22 2011 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 683 164 SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR SEARCHING FOR MEDIA CONTENT filed Aug. 14 2012 which applications are entirely incorporated herein by reference.

Media refers to communication tools used to store and deliver information or data and includes but is not limited to mass media multimedia news media published media hypermedia broadcast media advertising media social media i.e. media disseminated through social interaction and or other types of media. Media can be delivered over electronic communication networks. Media communications can include digital media i.e. electronic media used to store transmit and receive digitized information . Media includes privately communicated information or data publicly communicated information or data or a combination thereof.

Social media may refer to the use of web based and mobile technologies to turn communication into an interactive dialogue. Social media are media for social interaction as a superset beyond social communication. Social media includes web based and mobile technologies which may or may not be associated with social networks. For example social media such as blogs may not be associated with a social network. Social media includes privately communicated information or data publicly communicated information or data or a combination thereof. Currently there are multiple social networks that enable users to post content. Some of these networks are activity specific focusing on having users provide one type of information. Other social networks attempt to be more holistic allowing users to provide information relating to multiple types of information. Because the utility of a social network platform relies upon its user base in addition to the functionality it allows it is common for users to have accounts with a plurality of social media platforms so that they can connect with different groups of contacts. For example users can have Facebook and LinkedIn accounts. There has been a proliferation of social media platforms each of which allows a user to perform similar functions. Each of these networks provides a user with access to a fraction of their overall social network. Accessing each of these networks in series is a time consuming and odious task for many users. Users accessing social media platforms through a mobile device are faced with additional problems such as form factor limited input devices and limited bandwidth. Social media platforms do not readily communicate with each other and may even prevent a user from updating content from other networks.

Serving the vast quantity and diversity of public and or private media e.g. social media to users in a meaningful and efficient way remains a challenge.

Recognized herein are various limitations associated with serving media content. Further recognized herein are various limitations associated with serving social media content. For example some social media aggregators currently available do not permit a user to seamlessly and intuitively organize or aggregate filter and or search social media content by social contributor social entity or social tag. In some circumstances a user has to review a great amount of media content to find content of interest. Accordingly recognized herein is the need for systems and methods that automatically seamlessly and intuitively organize or aggregate filter and or search social media based on user selected content including social entities.

This disclosure provides systems and methods for establishing a relationship between media content such as words and phrases and users and or entities that use them. Such media content may for example be used on a system provided by a social media provider e.g. Facebook Google . With the relationship established systems provided herein enable users to view and or search such media content based on various relationships between the media content and users and or entities that use them.

This disclosure provides systems and methods for serving media content. Systems and methods provided herein can aggregate media content e.g. social media content and generate a relationship between media content for display to a user. The relationship can be a multi dimensional relationship.

In some examples a multi dimensional relationship between media content can be generated and media content can be presented to a user in a manner that enables the user to view the media content across multiple dimensions. For example text image and or video information can be presented to a user across multiple dimensions such as tags network entities and network contributors.

In some embodiments systems and methods for serving social media content are disclosed. A method for serving social media content may include providing a relationship between a keyword search and social entities social contributors and or social tags. In some cases a system for facilitating methods of the disclosure as part of a semantic analysis searches for and finds words or phrases that social contributors and or social entities use the most and creates a social index that is based on the search and the relationships between or among social entities social contributors and or social tags.

An aspect of the disclosure provides a method for searching for media content over a network comprising a conducting with the aid of a computer processor a search for one or more media content over the network wherein the search is directed to a search string and b providing results of the search of a . The results can include one or more media content that are provided based on a relationship between the search string and a tag and or network user associated with an individual media content of the one or more media content revealed upon the search.

Another aspect of the disclosure provides a method for providing social media content to a user by social entity social contributor or social tag. The method comprises collecting social media content from one or more social media providers and storing the social media content in a memory location. Next with the aid of a processor operatively coupled to the memory location a social stream from the stored social media content is generated. With the aid of a processor at least a portion of the social stream is grouped by social entity social contributor or social tag thereby forming grouped social media content. At least a portion of the grouped social media content is then presented to the user. The grouped social media content is presented to the user on the basis of social entity social contributor or social tag.

Another aspect of the disclosure provides a system for aggregating social media content. The system comprises a communications interface operatively coupled to one or more social media providers and a memory location having machine executable code implementing a method. In some embodiments the method comprises collecting with the aid of the communications interface social media content from the one or more social media providers generating with the aid of a processor a social media stream from the collected social media content grouping with the aid of a processor at least a portion of the social stream by social entity social contributor or social tag thereby forming grouped social media content and presenting at least a portion of the grouped social media content to the user the grouped social media content presented to the user on the basis of social entity social contributor or social tag. In an embodiment the system further comprises a graphical user interface for presenting at least a portion of the grouped social media content to the user.

Another aspect of the disclosure provides a computer implemented method for searching social media content comprising a receiving from a user a request for a search of social media content wherein the search is directed to a search term selected by the user b conducting a search of social media content in a database of social media content wherein the search of social media content is directed to the search term and wherein the database includes social media content aggregated from one or more social providers c grouping with the aid of a processor at least a portion of the results of the search of b by social entity social contributor and social tag thereby forming grouped search results and d providing on a graphical user interface of the user at least a portion of the grouped search results.

Another aspect of the disclosure provides method for establishing relationships between social entities social contributors and or social tags comprising generating a social stream comprising social media content and grouping the social stream by social entity social contributor and social tag.

Another aspect of the disclosure provides a method for presenting a social stream on a graphical user interface of a user comprising conducting a search for social media content of or related to a social contributor and or social entity and presenting one or more results of the search in a social stream on a graphical user interface of the user wherein the one or more results are sorted based on a social score associated each of the social contributor and or social entity.

In another aspect the disclosure provides a computer implemented method for providing social media content comprising a collecting social media content from one or more social media providers and storing the social media content in a memory location b generating with the aid of a computer processor operatively coupled to the memory location a social stream from the stored social media content and c grouping with the aid of a computer processor at least a portion of the social stream by social entity social contributor and or social tag thereby forming grouped social media content wherein the grouped social media is formed by establishing relationships between social entities social contributors and or social tags.

Another aspect of the disclosure provides a system for providing social media content comprising a a communications interface operatively coupled to one or more social media providers and b a computer processor coupled to the communications interface wherein the computer processor is programmed to execute machine executable code implementing a method. The method comprises i collecting with the aid of the communications interface social media content from the one or more social media providers ii generating with the aid of the computer processor a social stream from the collected social media content iii grouping with the aid of the computer processor at least a portion of the social stream by social entity social contributor and or social tag thereby forming grouped social media content and iv presenting at least a portion of the grouped social media content to a user the grouped social media content presented to the user on the basis of social entity social contributor and or social tag.

In another aspect the disclosure provides a computer implemented method for searching social media content comprising a receiving from a user a request for a search of social media content wherein the search is directed to a search term selected by the user b conducting with the aid of a computer processor operatively coupled to a database of social media content a search of social media content in the database wherein the search of social media content is directed to the search term and wherein the database includes social media content collected from one or more social providers c grouping with the aid of a computer processor at least a portion of one or more results of the search of b by two or more social dimensions thereby forming grouped search results and d providing on a graphical user interface of the user at least a portion of the grouped search results.

Another aspect of the disclosure provides a computer implemented method for searching for social media content over a network comprising a conducting with the aid of a computer processor a search for one or more social media content over the network wherein the search is directed to a search string and b providing results of the search of a the results having one or more social media content that are provided based on relationships between the i search string and a tag and ii the search string and a network user associated with an individual social media content of the one or more social media content revealed upon the search.

Additional aspects and advantages of the present disclosure will become readily apparent to those skilled in this art from the following detailed description wherein only illustrative embodiments of the present disclosure are shown and described. As will be realized the present disclosure is capable of other and different embodiments and its several details are capable of modifications in various obvious respects all without departing from the disclosure. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

All publications patents and patent applications mentioned in this specification are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication patent or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

While various embodiments of the invention have been shown and described herein it will be obvious to those skilled in the art that such embodiments are provided by way of example only. Numerous variations changes and substitutions may occur to those skilled in the art without departing from the invention. It should be understood that various alternatives to the embodiments of the invention described herein may be employed in practicing the invention.

The term media provider as used herein generally refers to a service that stores or otherwise provides media content. A media provider may be a social media provider which generally refers to a service that stores or otherwise provides social media content. A media provider can turn communication into an interactive dialogue. Some media providers such as social media providers can use web based and mobile technologies to provide such interactive dialogues.

The term media content as used herein generally refers to textual graphical audio and or video information or content on a computer system or a plurality of computer systems. In some cases media content can include uniform resource locators URL s . Media content may be information provided on the Internet or one or more intranets. In some cases media content is social media content which can include textual graphical audio and or video content on one or more social media networks. In some cases media content is social media content which can include textual graphical audio and or video content on one or more web sites blog sites or other web based pages. Social media content may be related to a social entity or social contributor.

The term network stream as used herein generally refers to a display such as an aggregate display of the media activities of an entity or person that can be searched grouped and filtered. A network stream may be a social stream which generally refers to a display such as an aggregate display of the social media activities of an entity or person that can be searched grouped and filtered.

A network stream may be updated in real time or at a given time point or interval. For example a network stream is updated continuously. As another example a network stream is updated manually. As another example a network stream is updated every at least one microsecond one millisecond one second ten seconds one minute or ten minutes.

The term network entity as used herein generally refers to an entity such as a company group or organization that may be associated with media content. A network entity may be a social entity also referred to as Social Entity herein which is a network entity associated with social media content. A network entity may be a company that distributes media content over the Internet. A social entity may be a company that distributes social media content with the aid of a service provided by a social media provider e.g. Facebook . In some cases an entity may be a network entity as well as a social entity. A social search engine indexes an entity s social media initiatives and subsequently displays contributors users and entities posts that mention such entity in their social media activities. In an example a user searches Yale and results display all social media by Harvard that mentions Yale.

The term network contributor as used herein generally refers to a user or person that has contributed media content on a network such as the Internet and or an intranet. A network contributor may be a social contributor also referred to as Social Contributor herein which is a user that has contributed social media content. In some cases a person can be a network contributor as well as a social contributor. The social media content may be of or related to a social entity. In an example a user searches Yale and the results display Professor Jones a Yale professor and all of his social media that mentions Yale.

The term tag as used herein generally refers to words or text strings that are used by network entities and or network contributors within or at least within a given percentage or frequency of usage. For instance a tag can be a word or text string that is most utilized by network entities and or network contributors. A tag may be a social tag also referred to as Social Tag herein which generally refers to the most utilized words or text strings that are used such as by a user in the user s social media activities e.g. Facebook activities . In an example a user searches Yale and views the most used words by Yale in its social media activities Financial Aid architecture and basketball. 

The term network as used herein generally refers to a computer network. A network can include the Internet one or more intranets or both. A network in some cases includes a computer environment for the distribution of media content. A network can include a computer environment provided by a media provider such as a social media provider.

Some embodiments provide systems and methods for establishing relationships between media content and users and or entities that use or make reference to the media content. In some examples the media content is social media content and a relationship between the media content and social entities and or social contributors may be established. In other examples the media content may be Internet or World Wide Web web content and the relationship between the media content and users and or entities that use or make reference to the media content may be established. Such relationships may be presented to a user on a user interface such as a graphical user face of a computer display display of an electronic device of the user.

Some embodiments provide a method for searching for media content over a network comprising conducting with the aid of a computer processor also processor herein a search for one or more media content over the network. The search is directed to a search string. The search string may include one or more tags. The results of the search are then provided. The results include one or more media content which can be provided in accordance with a relationship between the search string and a tag network contributor and or network entity associated with an individual media content of the one or more media content revealed upon the search.

Some embodiments provide a social search engine that indexes social media activities or content and subsequently facilitates the strategic searching filtering and displaying of such social media activities or content by entity contributor and tag. The social search engine can index the World s social media. The social search engine can include one or more computer systems having memory locations for executing machine readable code for implementing various methods for collecting or aggregating social media content as provided herein. The social search engine can be adapted e.g. programmed or otherwise configured to a search engine for any media type. Thus any description of a social search engine herein can apply to any search engine for media content.

The social search engine can include a data mining module for searching the Internet and or an intranet to collect social media content of or related to a user. The data mining module can also search for and gather social media content that is related to a social entity social contributor or social tag specified by the user.

In accordance with the present disclosure users may refer to people contributors . Any features of the methods and systems described herein as relating to a user may also relate to an entity Thus a user also referred to as network user herein can be understood in a broader sense to include both contributors and entities. In some embodiments a network user may refer to a social contributor and or a social entity.

Some embodiments provide a system for collecting and aggregating social media content to be searched by a user. The social media content can be provided to a user by way of a social stream. In some cases the social stream includes an aggregate collection of social media content. The social stream can be an aggregate display of all social media content retrieved by the system or a subset such as a social stream that relates to a particular social entity or social contributor or a social stream that is directed at a particular term. The social stream can be categorized such as by social entity social contributor or social tag.

In some cases a social stream of a social entity can be categorized and displayed by social entity social contributor or social tag. This can permit a user to determine which social entities contributors and or tag has or have mentioned the social entity in the social stream.

In some cases a social stream of a social contributor can be categorized and displayed by social entity social contributor or social tag. This can permit a user to determine which social entities contributors and or tag has or have mentioned the social contributor in the social stream.

Systems and methods provided herein can permit users to automatically aggregate or collect and filter social media content. In some cases the aggregated social content can permit multi dimensional views of social streams such as across a social entity dimension social contributor dimension or social tag dimension. Social entities social contributors and social tags are also referred to as dimensions or social dimensions herein. In some embodiments a social dimension can refer to a particular type of dimension associated with social media content while a dimension can refer to a dimension associated with any type of media content. The dimensions can be orthogonal dimensions that is dimensions that are mutually exclusive. As an alternative some of the dimensions can be inclusive of other dimensions. For example the social entity dimension can overlap at least to some extent with the social contributor dimension.

Systems and methods of the disclosure can aggregate social media content of a single social media provider e.g. Facebook or multiple social media providers e.g. Facebook and Google . In an example systems of the disclosure can aggregate Facebook wall posts. In another example systems of the disclosure can aggregate Facebook and Google content. Accordingly social media content can be aggregated across a single social media provider or across a plurality of social media providers.

Any system or method of the disclosure referred to as social or described in connection with serving social media may also be applied to any other media type s . Thus systems and methods described herein are understood to apply to any media content and are not to be limited to social media content.

An aspect of the disclosure provides a method for providing social media content to a user by social entity social contributor or social tag. Methods described herein in the context of social media can apply to any media type s and are not limited to social media. The method comprises collecting social media content from one or more social media providers and storing the social media content in a memory location. With the aid of a processor operatively coupled to the memory location a social stream from the stored social media content is generated. Next with the aid of a processor at least a portion of the social stream is grouped by social entity social contributor or social tag to form grouped social media content. At least a portion of the grouped social media content is presented to the user. The grouped social media content is presented to the user on the basis of dimensions such as social entity social contributor or social tag.

With reference to in a first step the system accesses various social media providers. Next in a second step the system downloads social media content. In some embodiments the system downloads selected or user specified content such as content that is directed at predetermined social entities e.g. Yale University social contributors e.g. Professor Jones or social tags which may include a search string. The system can access a social media provider and download material from select social entities and or social contributors specified on a system profile of a user. In an example a user desiring to have certain social media content aggregated can have a profile that includes social entities social contributors and or social tags specified by the user. In some cases the profile of the user displays a social stream that is categorized by social entity social contributor or social tag.

In some embodiments the system permits a user to add a social entity social contributor or social tag from a social stream to a profile page e.g. web site of the user such as a profile page hosted by a social media provider e.g. Facebook . The user in some cases can select which social entity social contributor or social tag is added to the user s profile page.

In other embodiments the system downloads any new content such as new posts status updates or profile content. The new content can be material that has been added in relation to a certain point in time such as a prior download. In some situations the system does a differential download which supplements downloaded material with any new material.

In some situations the system downloads social media content and generates a social media stream. The social media stream can include social media content of or relating to a particular social entity or contributor from one or more social media providers. In an example the system downloads social media content relating to the social entity Yale University from Facebook and LinkedIn .

Next in a third step the system indexes and stores the social media content in a data storage unit of the system. The data storage unit can be accessed and searched by the social search engine of the system. In some cases the system indexes and stores the social media content in a database of the system such as a relational database. The social media content can be indexed using clustered or non clustered indexing to name a few examples.

Social media content can be stored in the data storage unit by dimensions. Social media content can be stored in the data storage unit by social entity e.g. company institution or organization social contributor e.g. a person and or social tag e.g. word . In some embodiments social media content relationships may be stored as properties of dimensions.

In some situations the social search engine can search the database with one or more terms directed at social entities social contributors or social tags. The social search engine can implement various search algorithms to facilitate the search. In some embodiments the social search engine implements an incremental search algorithm heuristic search algorithm or incremental heuristic search algorithm to conduct the search.

In some situations the third step can be precluded and the system can search social media providers in real time such as upon request from a user. The system can implement search engine indexing to facilitate searching and retrieving social media content. The system can index the World s social media or index social media from various countries cities or localities or index social media from given companies or entities. The system can implement indexing upon request of a user and or without request of a user. In some instances the system conducts a search of various social media providers upon request from a user. Such a search can be directed at one or more social entities social contributors and or social tags.

The system can provide the user a social stream which is an aggregate display of social media activities of an entity or social contributor. The social stream can include social media content from various social media providers. In an example a social stream includes social media content for the social entity Yale University retrieved from Facebook and Twitter. The social stream in such a case can include Facebook wall posts and status updates and Twitter tweets. 

For instance in a fourth step the system performs a search directed at a social entity social contributor or social tag. The system can perform a search of a social stream generated by the system from content retrieved from one or more social media providers or download content directed at a predetermined social entity social contributor or social tag. Next in a fifth step the system provides the results of the search to a user. In some cases the system provides the results of the search on a user interface of the system such as a graphical user interface GUI on a display of the user e.g. computer display iPhone display iPad display . The results can be provided by social entity social contributor or social tag. In an example the results are displayed by social entity e.g. Yale University Harvard University Brown University . In another example the results are displayed by social contributor e.g. Professor Smith Steve Harvey .

In some cases the system can perform a sequential social search. The sequential social search may be performed upon request by a user. With reference to in a sixth step the system performs a sequential social search within a social entity social contributor or social tag. Next in a seventh step the results of the sequential social search are provided by social entity social contributor or social tag. The user may then perform additional sequential social searches.

In some embodiments the system can retrieve content from social media providers in a batch wise fashion or a continuous fashion and store the content in a data storage unit of the system. The system can then search the stored social media content based on predetermined search strings or criteria. In some situations the systems conducts a search directed at one or more social entities social contributors social tags or a combination thereof selected by a user and provides the results of the search for view by the user.

In some situations the system provides a social stream that displays social content as a function of time e.g. the latest social content appears at the top of the list . A user can subsequently conduct a search of the social stream directed at a social entity social contributor or social tag. In an example a user can conduct a search of the social stream for the most utilized words s associated with a social entity or social contributor.

Systems of the disclosure can enable a user to search social media content on the basis of a search criterion e.g. a search string having one or more keywords and view the results of the search on a user interface UI of the user such as a graphical user interface GUI . The search can be conducted against one or more databases of aggregated social media content. The one or more databases can be populated using systems and methods of the disclosure.

Next in a third operation a database of the system is queried to find the most relevant social entities or social contributors or social entities and social contributors that use the keyword or phrase of the search criterion. Relevance may be determined using a ranking algorithm. In some examples relevance is determined using a social score computed by the system. For instance a first user that uses a given keyword more often than a second user may have a higher social score than the second user. This operation may provide the relationship between the keyword or phrase and the social entities and or social contributors that use the keyword or phrase in their social media.

In some cases relevance is determined using a ranking algorithm. Such ranking can enable the system to prioritize social media results. In some embodiments the most relevant social entities and social contributors are determined by first determining a social score of each social entity and social contributor revealed in the search of the third operation . The social score is determined by calculating for each social contributor and social entity that is revealed in the third operation a social engagement score and a social post score. The social engagement score can be related to the social relevance of the person. The social engagement score is determined by the number of friends fans followers or other measurement or metric that assesses a user s importance. For example a user or entity on Facebook may have one hundred friends. In such a case the social engagement score for such user or company may be one hundred. The system also computes a social post score which can be determined based on the amount of interaction of any social post by a user or entity. In some cases a user s or entity s social post score is a function of the number of likes dislikes and comments . The number of likes dislikes and comments may each be weighted. For example if a user s social post has one hundred likes and twenty comments then the system may weigh the value of each of the number of likes and comments and compute a social post score that is a function of the number of likes and comments. In an example for a user having one hundred likes and twenty comments the system computes a social post score of fifty.

In some examples the system calculates the social post score by aggregating the number of likes dislikes and comments of a user. The system may multiply each of the number of likes dislikes and comments by a scaling or weighting factor. The number of dislikes may be subtracted from the number of likes and comments. In some cases the system weighs likes higher than comments and the scaling factor for likes may be greater than the scaling factor for comments. In some examples a user s social post score is as follows Social post score 

In the above formula A B and C are scaling factors for likes comments and dislikes respectively Nis the number of likes Nis the number of comments and Nis the number of dislikes.

Next the system calculates a total social score by adding the social engagement score and social post score. For example a user may have one hundred fans and the user s social post score may be fifty as estimated by the systems based on the number of likes dislikes and comments. Such user s total social score is one hundred and fifty. For instance the social post score can be directly related to the number and or frequency of posts by a social entity or social contributor. In an example a first user that posts once a day may have a higher social post score than a second user that posts once a week.

In some embodiments the social engagement score approximates the social importance of a social contributor. The social post score approximates the number of posts a user has provided across one or more social media providers. A user that posts on a daily basis e.g. once a day may have a higher social post score than a user that posts on a monthly basis e.g. once a month . In an example a user that has a high social engagement score may have a relatively low total social score if the user has a low social post score.

Next in a fourth operation a database is queried to find the most relevant social tags used by the social entities and or the social contributors revealed in the third operation . This operation may provide the relationship between the keyword or phrase and the most relevant words used within the social media of the social contributors and or social entities revealed in the third operation . The database of the fourth operation may be the same as the database of the third operation .

The results of the search of the fourth operation may be ranked or otherwise prioritized. The results may be ranked on the basis of relevance which may be determined based at least in part on the social score of a given social tag. The social score in some cases is related to the social engagement score of a social entity or social contributor that uses the social tag e.g. word in their social media content e.g. posts and the social post score of the actual social post. In some cases the social score is the sum of the social engagement score and the social post score. One or both of the social engagement score and the social post score may each be weighted by a scaling factor. Alternatively the social score can be the social engagement score multiplied by the social post score.

The database s accessed in the third operation and fourth operation may be relational databases. The database s in some cases are configured to connect the relationship between a given keyword or phrase and social entities and or social contributors that use the given keyword or phrase. In addition the database s or a subset of databases may connect the relationship between a given keyword or phrase and the most relevant words used within the social media of the social contributors and or social entities.

With continued reference to in a fifth operation the system aggregates social media content from the social entities social contributors and social tags revealed in the searches in the third and fourth operations. The aggregated social media content may be stored in a data repository such as a database that can be dedicated for the storage of social media content. Next data is returned to the web application or mobile application

Next in a sixth operation social results and relevant social entities social contributors and social tags are displayed to the user on a user interface such as a graphical user interface GUI of an electronic device of the user. The user may elect to drill down on a given social entity social contributor or social tag to review other relationships.

Social results can be displayed on the GUI on the basis of social score. In an example a first social result having a higher social score than a second social score is displayed higher in a list of social results than the second social result.

The system can permit the user to filter social results based on social score. For example the user may wish to view social results having a social score above a threshold value. The user can input the threshold value in an input field of the GUI and the system can filter the results and provide the user the filtered social results.

Another aspect of the disclosure provides a system for providing social media content to a user. The system can be configured e.g. programmed to aggregate or collect social media content. Systems described herein in the context of social media can apply to any media type s and are not limited to social media. The system comprises a communications interface operatively coupled to one or more social media providers and a memory location having machine executable code implementing methods provided herein. In some embodiments the methods comprise collecting with the aid of the communications interface social media content from the one or more social media providers and generating with the aid of a processor a social media stream from the collected social media content. At least a portion of the social stream is grouped by social entity social contributor or social tag to form grouped social media content. At least a portion of the grouped social media content is presented to the user. The grouped social media content can be presented to the user on the basis of social entity social contributor or social tag.

In some embodiments the system comprises a user interface for presenting at least a portion of the grouped social media content to the user. The user interface in some cases is a graphical user interface.

The computer system system includes a memory location a communications interface a display interface and in some cases a data storage unit which are all operatively coupled to a processor such as a central processing unit CPU . The memory location may include one or more of flash memory cache and a hard disk. In some situations the memory location is read only memory ROM or random access memory RAM to name a few examples.

The data storage unit can store social media content collected by the system . The data storage unit can include one or more hard disks and other memory locations which are configured to store and in some cases index social media content. The data storage unit can include one or more hard disks memory and or cache for data transfer and storage. The data storage unit can include one or more databases such as a relational database.

The communications interface includes a network interface for enabling the system to interact with the network which may include an intranet including other systems and subsystems and the Internet including the World Wide Web. In some cases the system further includes a data warehouse for storing information such as user information e.g. profiles and results. In some cases the data warehouse resides on a computer system remote from the system . In some embodiments the system may include a relational database and one or more servers such as for example data servers.

The system may include one or more communication interfaces or ports COM PORTS one or more input output I O modules such as an I O interface. The processor may be a central processing unit CPU or a plurality of CPU s for parallel processing.

In some situations the communications interface enables the system to wirelessly interface with the network . In such a case the communications interface includes a wireless interface e.g. G G G long term evolution LTE WiFi Bluetooth that brings the system in wireless communication with a wireless access point that is in communication with the network .

The system may include a social search engine that indexes social media content and facilitates the strategic searching and filtering of social media content by entity contributor and tag. In some situations via the social search engine an aggregate display of the social media activities of an entity or person is provided which can be searched and filtered. The search engine can permit a user to filter within any one of social entity social contributor or social tag to then get a revised set of social entities social contributors or social tags based on various search terms or strings. In some cases a user can further filter each social search stream result by date e.g. the system filters and displays results chronologically from the most recent data content e.g. the system filters and displays results by content within an individual social media such as for example text audio video images and URL s user rating e.g. the system filters and displays results by the highest rated as determined by users and or sharing e.g. the system filters and displays results by most shared social media content among users .

The system can permit a user to group and sort search results. In some embodiments search results can be grouped by social entity social contributor or social tag. Search results may be sorted by various fields such as date e.g. date retrieved by the system date posted on a social provider social entity social contributor and or social tag to name some examples.

For example the system can access the social media providers and to search for social media content that is of or related to an entity e.g. company school contributor e.g. user or tag e.g. most frequently used words or text strings . In some embodiments the system accesses the social media providers and retrieves and stores social streams. The social streams may be of or related to a particular entity or contributor. The system can store the social media streams in the data storage unit of the system .

In some situations the system indexes an entity s social media initiatives and subsequently makes accessible various user and entity posts that mention the searched for entity in their social media activities. In an example the user searches Yale and the system displays all social media content by the entity Harvard that mentions the entity Yale. 

The system can index an entity s or user s social media initiatives and subsequently display the users and their posts that have provided social media content of or related to the entity or person. In an example the user searches Yale and the system displays Professor Jones a Yale professor and all of Professor Jones social media content that mentions Yale. 

The system can index an entity or person s social media initiatives and subsequently display social media content e.g. posts having the most utilized word s that such person or entity used in its social media activities. In an example the user searches Yale and the system provides the user the most used words by Yale in Yale s social media activities e.g. Financial Aid architecture basketball etc. .

In some situations a user can activate the social search engine of the system to display and filter a social stream by social entity social contributor and or social tag. Filtering can enable the user to drill down search results to get deeper results all within the structure of the social entity social contributor or social tag. In some situations the system presents the results of a search grouped by social entity social contributor or social tag. The results can be provided on a display of the user such as a graphical user interface GUI see below of the display. The user can drill down from the social entity social contributor or social tag to reveal various details of the group. In an example a user drills down from a social entity to reveal other social entities social contributors or social tags that have referenced the social entity.

In some embodiments the system can display search results or posts and rank the posts by content. In some cases the system displays posts with the most content e.g. text images URL s rich media at the top of the list. Subsequent posts from the top can be listed in the order of decreasing content. The system can have software that is configured to operate on various operating systems such as Linux based operating systems or Windows based operating system. The operating system can reside on a memory location of the system .

The system can permit the user to create a social page or social profile. The profile can enable the user to list various attributes and interests of the user. In some cases a user can create a social page and select only the social stream s or content that the user desires to view. In an example a user selects and receives on a private dedicated webpage of the user only the social streams that the user desires to view. The system can permit the user to filter posts provided in social streams such as by date e.g. newest toward the top or content e.g. posts with the most content toward the top . In some embodiments the social page or social profile can be used in a data feed.

Systems of the disclosure may allow the user to set preferences and or make selections. The preferences and or selections may be used in a feedback loop to control one or more aspects of serving social media or any other media type.

The system can include administrator admin functionality. In some situations the administrator of a social stream can add or remove social contributors. For example the admin of the social entity Yale can add or remove users to and from respectively the Yale social stream. In some cases the admin of a social stream can add or remove social tags. For example the admin of Yale can add any word or words to the Yale social stream allowing any user to easily find what the admin or other user deems important.

In some cases a user can combine all of the social media initiatives of all members of an organization into a single web page or social stream. The user can then determine which users and which social media from such user is to be published on a social stream of the organization. Such control also includes the ability to determine and publish the words or social tags that may promote educate and or inform users in a social stream. For example the admin for Yale can publish New Students and Endowment which allows users to filter the entire social stream of the admin which is inclusive of all of its social entities and social contributors by accessing e.g. by clicking social tags of interest.

The system can be adapted to store user profile information such as social media profile information. Such profile information can be stored in the data storage unit of the system .

Aspects of the systems and methods provided herein such as the computer system can be embodied in programming. Various aspects of the technology may be thought of as products or articles of manufacture typically in the form of machine or processor executable code and or associated data that is carried on or embodied in a type of machine readable medium. Machine executable also computer executable herein code can be stored on an electronic storage unit such as one or more memory e.g. ROM RAM or one or more hard disks. Examples of hard disks include magnetic and solid state recording media. Storage type media can include any or all of the tangible memory of computers processors or the like or associated modules thereof such as various semiconductor memories tape drives disk drives and the like which may provide non transitory storage at any time for the software programming. All or portions of the software may at times be communicated through the Internet or various other telecommunication networks. Such communications for example may enable loading of the software from one computer or processor into another for example from a management server or host computer into the computer platform of an application server. Thus another type of media that may bear the software elements includes optical electrical and electromagnetic waves such as used across physical interfaces between local devices through wired and optical landline networks and over various air links. The physical elements that carry such waves such as wired or wireless links optical links or the like also may be considered as media bearing the software. As used herein unless restricted to non transitory tangible storage media terms such as computer or machine readable medium refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution.

Hence a machine readable medium such as computer executable code may take many forms including but not limited to a tangible storage medium a carrier wave medium or physical transmission medium. Non volatile storage media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as any of the storage devices in any computer s or the like such as may be used to implement the databases etc. shown in the drawings. Volatile storage media include dynamic memory such as main memory of such a computer platform. Tangible transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise a bus within a computer system. Carrier wave transmission media may take the form of electric or electromagnetic signals or acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media therefore include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD or CD ROM a DVD or DVD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical storage medium with patterns of holes a RAM a ROM a PROM and or EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave transporting data or instructions cables or links transporting such a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer may read programming code and or data. Many of these forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to a processor for execution.

In some cases code that is executable by a single processor can be executed by a plurality of processors such as in a parallel processor environment or distributed computing fashion. Code that is executable by a plurality of processors may be executed by a single processor.

In some cases the system may be configured for data mining extract transform and load ETL or spidering e.g. Web Spidering where the system fetches data from remote systems over a network and accesses an Application Programming Interface API or parses the resulting markup operations which may permit the system to load information from a raw data source or mined data into a data warehouse. In some cases one or more credentials are provided in order to access data e.g. one or more credentials are provided for access through an API specific to a social media platform . The data warehouse may be configured for use with a business intelligence system e.g. Microstrategy Business Objects . The media file management system can include a data mining module adapted to search for media content in various source locations such as email accounts and various network sources such as social networking accounts e.g. Facebook Foursquare Google LinkedIn Twitter Instagram or on publisher sites such as for example weblogs.

Social media content such as search results and social relationships may be presented to a user with the aid of a user interface UI such as a graphical user interface GUI on an electronic device of the user. The UI such as GUI can be provided on a display of an electronic device of the user. The display can be a capacitive or resistive touch display or a head mountable display e.g. Google Goggles . Such displays can be used with other systems and methods of the disclosure.

A user interface may enable a user to interact with systems of the disclosure such as for conducting searches directed at social media content. In some situations the user interface is a graphical user interface GUI having various graphical textual audio and video elements.

A user interface can have a search field that enables a user to input one or more search terms to be used by the system to conduct a search. The search field can include a drop down pull down or other type of menu to enable a user to select for example commonly used words or previous search strings.

In some embodiments the system of is configured to present the results of a search using a GUI on a display of the system or a remote system such as a remote system of the user . The results can be displayed immediately following a search by a user and in some cases updated as new information arrives on the system . In some situations results are generated on the user interface as the user inputs text into a search field of the user interface.

The user interface can include a text field to enable a user to input text or strings to refine the results of a search. For example a user can initially conduct a search for a certain social entity e.g. Yale University and subsequently refine the search by social tag or social contributor e.g. Professor Ralph .

In some embodiments following a search query from the user the system performs a search of social media content and provides the results to the user on a graphical user interface on a display of the system of a computer system of the user . The user can then filter the search results drill down or drill up. In addition the GUI can enable the user to sort and group search results by various categories such as social entity social contributor or social tag.

In some embodiments the user interface is a web based user interface also web interface herein that is configured e.g. programmed to be accessed using an Internet or web browser of a computer system of the user or any other system in communication with the system . The web interface can enable a user to search social media content and display search results by social entity social contributor or social tag and to drill down or drill up from the results to view varying levels of detail.

Some embodiments provide user interfaces for enabling a user to interact with systems provided herein. In some cases the user interfaces are graphical user interfaces.

The GUI includes a plurality of panels. A left panel is a navigation panel that displays the search results area . In some cases the navigation panel presents search results categorized by social entity social contributor and or social tag. A right top panel includes the smart social search . A right bottom panel displays social streams for social entities social contributors or social tags selected by the user in the left panel.

A system having an embedded social toolbar can communicate with a system for serving social media content such as the system of to provide search results to a user. The system for serving social media content can provide search capabilities to the system having the embedded social toolbar for a fee such as a license fee.

While graphical user interfaces have been described with reference to various figures it will be appreciated that such descriptions are illustrative and non limiting. Graphical user interfaces with other features and configurations can be used with systems and methods provided herein.

For instance a GUI can include a social breadcrumb panel at the top of the screen and a social stream panel below the social breadcrumb panel. As another example a GUI can include a social toolbar having an input field for a search string and a drop down menu listing social entities social contributors and or social tags. A social stream can be displayed below the social toolbar.

In some situations the results of a search are provided to a user after a user inputs a search string and instructs the system to conduct a search. In other situations the system provides inline searching in which case the results of a search are provided to the user as the user inputs a search string.

Some embodiments provide graphical user interfaces that enable users to serve social media content of industries e.g. education and social entities e.g. Yale University . The GUIs can display a social stream having search results and provide a view also breadcrumb view herein of the search results categorized by social entity social contributor and social tag.

The GUI can enable a user to add a social entity social contributor and or social tag as may be revealed in a search to a profile page at a social media provider e.g. Facebook . This enables the user to navigate social media content such as by searching and viewing a social stream and social entities social contributors and or social tags of interest to a profile page of the user.

This disclosure provides systems and methods that can enable relational multi dimensional media content searching and graphical representation of the media content. Upon display to a user the relationship e.g. multi dimensional relationship among or between media content can be displayed to the user.

In the example shown in media content revealed upon a keyword search is grouped in a first dimension or Social Contributor dimension a second dimension or Social Entity dimension and a third dimension or Social Tag dimension . In some embodiments media content associated with the third dimension can be obtained by processing media content associated with the first and second dimensions For example the third dimension can be derived by indexing the first and second dimensions. The dimensions can also be related to each other. For example a Social Contributor dimension can be related to a Social Entity dimension such as when for example a contributor belongs to or is part of an entity.

Each of the dimensions can be further dimensionalized. For example the Social Contributor dimension can have first second and third dimensions wherein the first dimension is a Social Contributor dimension the second dimension is a Social Entity dimension and the third dimension is a Social Tag dimension . As with the dimensions the dimensions can be derived from each other and can be related to each other.

In another example the Social Entity dimension can have first second and third dimensions wherein the first dimension is a Social Contributor dimension the second dimension is a Social Entity dimension and the third dimension is a Social Tag dimension . Going one step further or one level down the Social Entity dimension can have first second and third dimensions wherein the first dimension is a Social Contributor dimension the second dimension is a Social Entity dimension and the third dimension is a Social Tag dimension . The dimensions and can be derived from each other and can be related to each other.

The media content revealed upon the keyword search can have a relational multi dimensional tree structure wherein the media content has at first three dimensions and wherein relationships exist between these dimensions. In a second dimensional branching step one of these dimensions again has three dimensions and again relationships exist between the dimensions. Thus at each dimensional branching which in some cases can be an indexing operation and or a filtering operation the tree structure is split into three dimensions. Each dimensionalization step can proceed in three possible directions and the dimensionalization steps or levels can be repated n times depending on how many levels the system or user wants to drill down. Thus the tree structure can branch into 3possible dimensions. Further each dimensionalization step can be an indexing step and or a search step. For example if a user wants to drill down five levels of search the system can perform five searches wherein a specific on this case first second or third direction is selected in each search step. A sixth dimensionalization step can be performed by the system in order to provide grouped media results to the user. The sixth dimensionalization can be an indexing step. In some examples if the user wants to drill down n levels the system can perform n searches wherein n is a number that is greater than or equal to zero. In some examples the system can drill down at least 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 100 1 000 10 000 100 000 or 1 000 000 by performing at least 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 100 1 000 10 000 100 000 or 1 000 000 searches respectively.

Each dimension can comprise a plurality of media content. The plurality of media content can be related to the original keyword or search term which revealed the media content. In some embodiments an individual media content belonging to a dimension in an nsearch step can when presented to a user be used by the user to start a new search. In this instance the individual media content can be become a keyword or search term. The keyword or search term can reveal media content results of new first multi dimensional search step such as illustrated by the media content dimensions 

The method includes conducting a search for media content such as social media content. The search can be implemented using a search engine such as the social search engine described elsewhere herein.

The method can include indexing social media at various scales such as in a company or organization across multiple companies or organizations in a city or across cities in a state or across multiple states in a country or across multiple countries or even the World. The system for implementing the method can index all dimensions i.e. all people entities words . When a user searches diabetes in a first step the system for implementing the method displays the results social media results or social results for diabetes in a second step . The social results can include for example a Facebook post that mentions diabetes a Twitter tweet that mentioned diabetes a YouTube video that mentions diabetes and so on.

The social search engine can index all social media content available. When a user searches with a keyword diabetes in a first step the social search engine provides social search results social results comprising relevant social media content in a step . As an alternative the social search engine can index all potential keywords or combinations of keywords. When a user searches with a keyword diabetes in a first step the social search engine provides social search results social results comprising relevant social media content in a step . The social results provided in step may or may not be indexed by dimensions.

In a third step the system for implementing the method can comb through each post find related dimensions and index such dimensions e.g. Dr. Johnson or glucose . For example as shown in the system determines that Dr. Johnson s social media mentions diabetes in his social media. In another example the system determines that Cleveland Clinic mentions diabetes in their social media. In yet another example the system determines that glucose is a commonly used word by all people and entities that mention diabetes. 

In a fourth step the user can filter social results for example by selecting Cleveland Clinic. The filtered results can show all social media that mentions both diabetes and Cleveland Clinic as shown in step . The social media that mentions Cleveland Clinic and diabetes can be from Cleveland Clinic or another person or organization. In another example the user can filter social results by selecting Dr. Johnson. The filtered results can show all social media that mentions both diabetes and Dr. Johnson as shown in step . The social media that mentions Dr. Johnson and diabetes can be from Dr. Johnson or another person or organization. In yet another example the user can filter social results by selecting glucose. The filtered results can show all social media that mentions both diabetes and glucose as shown in step . The social media that mentions diabetes and glucose can be from any person or organization.

In a fifth step the system for implementing the method automatically indexes auto indexes dimensions within the first found dimension. For example Dr. Johnson was found then all of his social media is searched and indexed by person entity or word. Each social post within Dr. Johnson s social media can be indexed by person entity or word. In another example Cleveland Clinic was found then all of Cleveland Clinic s social media is searched and indexed by person entity or word. In some cases each social post within Cleveland Clinic s social media can be indexed by person entity or word. In another example the method automatically indexes dimensions within the social posts revealed in the social media that mentions diabetes and glucose provided in step .

The method implemented by the system can repeat itself. The method can be repeated at least 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 100 1 000 10 000 100 000 1 000 000 or more times. The method can be repeated a substantially large number of times in some cases by way of an iterative or recursive loop. The method can be implemented recursively or iteratively.

The method can include extracting dimensions and defining the dimensions as either a person entity group organization company or word. Subsequently the method can autogenerate new index es on each defined dimension.

As shown in the example in a system implementing the method responds to a keyword search provided by a user by finding all social media that contains the keyword searched in a first step . In a second step the method extracts dimensions within the social media that contains the keyword searched. In this example a dimension is defined as a person entity group organization company or meaningful word contained within the social media. Alternative or additional dimensions may be defined in other embodiments.

In this example in step the system defines each dimension as either a Social Contributor e.g. person a Social Entity e.g. entity or a Social Tag e.g. word . In a following step the method finds the social media of such defined people and entities that contain the keyword search. Further the method finds the most used words within the social media of any people or entities that use the keyword searched.

In a next step which can be performed at a user interface provided herein such as a graphical user interface the method includes organizing social media results by the people and entities that used the keyword searched in their social media. Further the method includes organizing social media by the most used words contained within the social media of the people and entities that use the keyword searched in their social media.

In some embodiments the steps and can be grouped or broken up into partial steps. In some cases the steps can be rearranged. It is understood that the example sequence described herein is not to be limiting. This sequence can be modified rearranged or otherwise altered.

With continued reference to the sequence and can be repeated on social media collected in a next sequence of steps and . The step extracts new dimensions within such social media of the people and entities that used the original keyword searched. Then in step the method defines each dimension as Social Contributor e.g. person Social Entity e.g. entity or Social Tag e.g. word . Next steps and are analogous to steps and performed within such social media of the people and entities that used the original keyword searched. The sequence of step and subsequent drill down of collected content can be repeated any number of times.

The relationally dimensional systems and methods described herein enable the defined dimensions such as the defined Person dimension the defined Entity A dimension or the defined Word dimension to be drilled down. In the example shown in the defined Entity A has a set of social media that contained the keyword searched. For example the set can include one or more social posts which have an Entity A dimension. A new search is performed within the defined Entity A social media that contained the keyword searched to find new people entities e.g. Entity B and words from the Entity A social media. For example the set can contain one or more social posts or content . The social post can have dimensions for example the dimensions can be Person Entity B and Word

As illustrated in further drill down can be performed for example within the defined Entity B which has a set of social media obtained in preceding drill down steps. A new search is performed within the defined Entity B social media obtained in earlier drill down steps to find new people entities e.g. Entity C and words from the Entity B social media. For example the set can contain one or more social posts or content with dimensions Person Entity C and Word

The drill downs can be repeated any number of times. Each step can include indexing of dimensions. The process can be repeated in an iterative or recursive loop. Thus the drill down search and corresponding graphical representation described herein utilizes a relationship between a keyword searched and the people and entities that use such keyword in their social media and the most used words. Then the search uses the indexing of new people and entities and most used words related to such people and entities and so on.

The drill downs are not limited to entities but can be performed along any dimension. Furthermore subsequent drill downs can be performed within different dimensions e.g. a first drill down can be along the Entity dimension and a second drill down can be along the Person dimensions and so on. 

In the user selects Virgin America. Now all social media containing both San Francisco Giants and Virgin America are displayed. The relationship of the social media presented to the set San Francisco Giants defined by a first keyword or search term and to the dimensional subset Virgin America defined in a second drill down search is displayed in a Social Search Path on the graphical user interface San Francisco Giants Virgin America .

The drill down searched can enable relational filtering. Relational filtering can be performed using the graphical representation displayed in the left part of the GUI. Alternatively the relational filtering can be performed using the Social Search Path . The relational filtering and representation as shown in the GUI can be updated in a coordinated fashion.

As shown in the user can select Virgin America from the Social Search path and new search results show the people entities and most used words relating to Virgin America as indicated on the GUI. This creates a new search based on the relationship created from the original keyword search e.g. San Francisco Giants leads to relationship with Virgin America which leads to a new search of Virgin America .

The GUIs described herein can provide a hierarchical multi dimensional category view to the user. The GUIs described herein can provide social search organization. In some cases the GUIs can be described as relational operating systems which can visualize relationships between dimensions.

With reference to in some examples systems and methods of the disclosure can extract dimensions within social media of keyword searched. Then the systems and methods can define dimensions as a person also referred to as Social Contributor entity also referred to as Social Entity e.g. group organization company or word also referred to as Social Tag .

Systems and methods of the disclosure can find social media of such defined dimensions that contain the keyword searched.

Systems provided herein can organize a user interface UI which may be a graphical user interface GUI by listing such dimensions i.e. the people and entities whose social media contains the keyword searched and the most used words within the social media of the people and entities that use the keyword searched .

All dimensions including new dimensions can be automatically indexed i.e. all dimensions contained within the social media of the dimensions of the original keyword searched . This can allow a user to conduct a new search based on the relationships created by the original search e.g. in San Francisco Giants leads to its relationship with Virgin America which then leads to a new search on Virgin America . This dimensional and relational approach can advantageously enable the search and user interface e.g. GUI features described herein.

The systems and methods of the invention can organize the UI of the search via the Social Search Path e.g. San Francisco Giants Virgin America .

A user searches Yale University. The social search engine provides the user all results for Yale University including Facebook posts Twitter tweets Google posts blog posts YouTube videos channels LinkedIn posts or updates 4Square posts and Yelp posts on a single webpage or mobile web page. The results can be indexed by social media provider e.g. Facebook Twitter Google etc. social entity social contributor or social tag.

A user searches WBLS. The social search engine provides the user all results of or relating to WBLS. shows a section of the social stream for WBLS as indexed and displayed via the social search engine of a system implementing the search. The image shows a Facebook post from WBLS FM a Twitter tweet from WBLS FM and a Twitter tweet from Egypt Sherrod one of its disc jockeys. The social search engine can group results by social provided e.g. Facebook Twitter etc. .

With the aid of systems provided herein such as the system of a user searches Yale University and results are displayed grouped by Social Entities Social Contributors and Social Tags as shown in . Social Entities are entities that mention Yale in its social media e.g. Harvard University Social Contributors are users affiliated with Yale e.g. Professors coaches Guidance Counselors etc. Social Tags are created by the system or predetermined by one or more users to display the most used words from the social activities of Yale University e.g. admissions field hockey math . The user then searches the results provided in for the term center point. The results of the search are shown in which shows center point under Professor Smith a social contributor and math a social tag associated with Professor Smith. The search provides social media content from the illustrated path Yale University Professor Smith Math that mention center point. In the illustrated example of there is no social media content from the illustrated path that mentions center point.

With the aid of systems provided herein such as the system of a user conducts searches directed at predetermined terms. Following the search the system indexes the search results to facilitate user access of the results. For instance the user searches engineering and is provided results for engineering. The user then searches mechanical within the results for engineering. The user further searches for the Engineering Institute within engineering mechanical. The user then searches for Professor Ralph within engineering mechanical Engineering Institute. The results of the search as provided by the system are shown in . The user can readily branch down or branch up the search tree for entities contributors and tags.

A first user desires to view a social stream of a second user. The first user inputs the second user s name into a search field of a social search engine which may be implemented on systems provided herein. The system displays the social stream of the second user on a graphical user interface of the system which may be a web interface of the system. The user can sort the search results by various fields such as date posted. shows an example social stream for user Steve Harvey sorted by date posted.

With the aid of systems provided herein such as the system of a user can utilize a content filter within the social stream to display posts in order from those with the most content to those with the least content. Such content can include text uniform resource locators URL s images video and rich media.

In the illustrated example under a search directed at industries to the left of the vertical dotted line the system conducts a search and enables the user to view search results by industry Health Education Automotive . The user selects Education. The system then shows the user the Education social stream. Social search results are provided in the right panel. A social breadcrumb left panel shows the results of the search categorized by social entities social contributors and social tags. Alternatively under a search directed at social entity to the right of the vertical dotted line the user conducts a social search of the web site yaleuniversity.com . The system access the web site and downloads social media content. The system displays the results of the search in a two panel graphical user interface. Under Yale University Social Stream the system shows left panel the results of the search categorized by social entity social contributor and social tag. The right panel shows the social stream of the search which provides social search results.

In the user selects e.g. clicks on with the aid of a pointing device Brown University within the social search path of which triggers a new social search directed to Brown University. The social breadcrumbs display bottom image left panel displays social entities social contributors and social tags below Yale University. This may permit a user to hierarchically determine the path Yale University Brown University the user has taken to reach the displayed search results.

With reference to within a social stream the user can filter social media search results by date user rating User Rated content and or sharing Shared as indicated by the boxed links. The user can select Date to filter the social stream by date or select User Rated to filter the social stream by user rating e.g. social media content with the highest user rating is at the top and content is provided in the order of decreasing user rating. As another option the user can select Content to filter and display social media results by the most content e.g. text audio video images URL s within an individual social media. As yet another option the user can select Shared to filter and display social media results by the most shared social media content amongst select users such as users of a particular social media provider users across a plurality of social media providers or users of the system implementing the displayed GUI.

Systems provided herein can provide various administrative capabilities. Within a social stream an administrator Admin can add or remove social contributors. is a screenshot of a graphical user interface GUI with a field box permitting the user to join as an Admin or social contributor. Various features may be accessible to the user based on the user s login i.e. Admin or social contributor . For example as an Admin Brown University can add the Dean of Economics social media e.g. blog posts Facebook Twitter Google Yelp Fousquare LinkedIn Instagram to its social stream. This may help any current or potential student of Brown University to better understand the full scope of Brown University and specifically its Economics department under the Dean of Economics. Brown University can also add social tags such as words that help promote Brown University. For example if admissions is an important element to Brown University then Brown University can create a social tag and social media content that helps educate and promote admissions to Brown University.

A user can add a social stream to the user s social page which can include a link to permit the user to add one or more social streams to a profile page of the user hosted by a social media provider e.g. Facebook Google Yelp LinkedIn . includes screenshots showing top screenshot a social search having a social breadcrumb panel left panel social search path right top panel and social stream right bottom panel . The social breadcrumb panel includes a link Add to my Social Page to permit the user to add the social stream to the user s social page bottom screenshot . By selecting the link the system adds the social stream for Yale University to the user s social page My Social Page . The social page bottom includes a link top right to permit the user to add various social streams to the user s Facebook page ADD to My Facebook Page .

The search is conducted by a system having a database of aggregated social media content such as the computer system of . The results of the search directed to WBLS are displayed in the left panel and categorized by social contributor social entity and social tag. Under Social Contributors the results include Steve Harvey DJ Spinna Maxwell Jeff Foxx and Keith Sweat. WBLS in the illustrated example may be an index i.e. WBLS index and the left panel shows social contributors social entities and social tags that the system has identified in the search. For instance under Social Entities the results include Wall Street Project Harlem Arts Alliance Mizani Miles Ahead Broadcasting and SRC Records. Under Social Tags the results include show check morning live and radio. The system ranks and displays a diversity of social results in the panel at the bottom right. The social results are ranked and sorted by social score as described elsewhere herein. Individual social results are shown in sub panels in the bottom right panel. A top social result WBLSFM on YouTube has a social score of 955.4 a middle social result WBLS 1075 has a social result of 951.43 and a bottom social result WBLS 107.5 has a social score of 201.55. The social scores are displayed on the GUI but in some cases the social scores may be hidden from view.

The top panel shows that the Current Social Index is WBLS. The user may select a social entity social contributor or social tag from the left panel and the system can conduct a search around the selected social entity social contributor or social tag using the selection as a new search index. For example the user can select Mizani from WBLS . shows the results of a search in which the user has selected Mizani from the left panel of and the system has conducted a new search around the term Mizani by using this term as a new social index. The results of the search categorized in the left panel by social contributor social entity and social tag and displayed in the right panel by social score include social media content that is directed to the social index WBLS Mizani. The results may include WBLS social media content from the search of that mentions or otherwise includes the term Mizani. 

The search of may show the social relationship between WBLS and Mizani. The bottom right panel shows all social media from WBLS that contains Mizani and all social media from Mizani that contains WBLS. The results may be ranked or prioritized by social score. The left panel shows the results of the search categorized by social entity social contributor and social tag.

The user may create a new social search and index on a selected social entity social contributor or social tag. For instance in the user can generate a new social index from the term Mizani which produces the search results of . The results of as generated by the system show a social search and index on Mizani. All of the social contributors social entities and social tags for Mizani are shown in the left panel listed under a Mizani index . The bottom right panel shows social results with social score at the right of each sub panel. The left panel of shows a Mizani index that includes social contributors social entities WBLS and social tags makeover win day show hair revealed in the search directed to Mizani as the social index. The list shows a makeover social tag which the system has identified from the search results directed at the Mizani index .

With reference to the user selects the makeover social tag from the left panel of . The system displays on the GUI social media from Mizani that contains the term makeover. Social results are displayed in the bottom right panel. The social results may be sorted by social score. The makeover index has been indicated in the top panel of . The top panel shows the current social index Mizani makeover which shows the path the user navigated in arriving at the instant search results i.e. the user first conducted a search directed to Mizani and subsequently searched for all Mizani social media content that mentions makeover. In such a case the results show all social media from Mizani having or associated with the tag makeover. Subsequently a user can select the tag makeover and the system will then display the most relevant Social Contributors people Social Entities and Social Tags for makeover. 

In some examples a user conducts a new search by selecting makeover. The user can continually generate new searches by selecting a social tag social contributor or social entity. The new searches are conducted based on the relationships between the social contributors social entities and social tags. Additionally the system permits a user to filter the results of a current search to review results directed to a given social entity social contributor or social tag. In such a case the system may not conduct a new search but may provide a subset of current search results.

With reference to the user selects the makeover index from the current social index in the top panel of and the system conducts a search of social media content directed to the term makeover. The system displays all of the social contributors Khloe Kardashian Egypt Ranbir Kapoor etc. social entities Very Mizani CBS This Morning etc. and social tags day home win etc. for the term makeover in the panel at the left as shown in . Social results sorted by social score are displayed in the bottom right panel.

The system can provide the user a history of search results. With reference to the results of searches directed to various indexes are provided in the left panel. The results are sorted by time i.e. most recent searches are provided at the bottom of the list and least recent searches are provided at the top of the list . In the illustrated example indexes for the searches directed at WBLS two searches Mizani and makeover are shown. The user may select an index to review the results of the search including social contributors social entities and social tags as a drop down in the left panel and the social results of the search in the bottom right panel.

Although the GUI of has a particular arrangement of panels other arrangements may be used. For instance the left panel may be located at the right or at the top of the GUI. In some cases the user may configure the configuration of panels as desired such as by dragging panels into a select orientation.

A user performs keyword search on baseball. The system then returns a list of the people entities and words that are most used in the social media that contains the keyword baseball. In an example Fenway Park is one of the entities listed. The user selects Fenway Park and the results then display all social media that mentions baseball and Fenway Park. The user then decides to conduct a new social search on Fenway Park. The results then display a list of people entities and words that are most used in social media that contains the term Fenway Park. In an example David Ortiz is listed as a social contributor. The cycle may continue and provide the user a continually evolving relationship between social contributors e.g. people entities and the words they use in their social media. In this example the social index displays baseball the original search and Fenway Park which allows the user to view the navigational path taken by the user to arrive at all keyword searches in a given session.

A law firm Acme Law wants to become an Admin within the system. Doing so allows Acme to control the people entities and words a user is able to view when the user conducts a keyword search on Acme Law. Acme adds Joe Smith the IP attorney and Suzie Jones the tax attorney as Social Contributors. A user searches Acme and is presented with search results that include the social contributors Joe Smith and Suzie Jones. The user selects Joe Smith or Suzie Jones to see all of the social media from Joe Smith or Suzie Jones respectively that contains the word Acme and Acme Law. Such an approach can enable both Joe Smith and Suzie Jones to create social media in any social media provider e.g. Facebook Twitter YouTube Google etc. with the specific messages they want to deliver to current and prospective clients. For instance Joe Smith has a recent blog post on Intellectual Property IP law and Suzie Jones has a Facebook post on new Internal Revenue Service IRS changes. The user interested in the latest IRS changes can filter the social results by selecting Suzie Jones from the social results.

A social entity e.g. group organization or company wants to view the social contributors e.g. people social entities and or social tags e.g. words most commonly or often used in social media that contains such social entity. For example ACME Corporation may want to know what social contributors e.g. people other social entities and or social tags e.g. words are most commonly used in all of the social media content that contains the term Acme or Acme Corporation. This can enable the social entity to view social contributors social entities and or social tags that most mention Acme and or Acme Corporation. The social entity can also view the social contributors social entities and or social tags that most often mention Acme and or Acme Corporation. Such a result may show relationships between the terms Acme and Acme Corporation and various social contributors social entities and social tags that would otherwise not be readily apparent.

A user wants to see the social contributors e.g. people social entities and social tags e.g. words most commonly used and the social media that mentions such social contributors social entities and social tags. For example Dr. Smith performs a search on himself and realizes that Johns Hopkins Hospital has mentioned him in its social media and the words most used within the social media that contains Dr. Smith is fruit diet and fasting. 

Methods and systems of the disclosure have been described in some cases in the context of social media. However methods and systems of the disclosure are not limited to social media and can be applied to or implemented in other contexts such as network searches.

Systems and methods provided herein may be combined with or modified by other systems and methods such as systems and methods provided in U.S. Patent Publication No. 2011 0078584 to Winterstein et al. SYSTEM FOR ORGANISING SOCIAL MEDIA CONTENT TO SUPPORT ANALYSIS WORKFLOW AND AUTOMATION Winterstein which is entirely incorporated herein by reference. For instance the machine learning engine and machine learning algorithm of Winterstein may be employed for use with systems provided herein such as the computer system of .

It should be understood from the foregoing that while particular implementations have been illustrated and described various modifications may be made thereto and are contemplated herein. It is also not intended that the invention be limited by the specific examples provided within the specification. While the invention has been described with reference to the aforementioned specification the descriptions and illustrations of embodiments of the invention herein are not meant to be construed in a limiting sense. Furthermore it shall be understood that all aspects of the invention are not limited to the specific depictions configurations or relative proportions set forth herein which depend upon a variety of conditions and variables. Various modifications in form and detail of the embodiments of the invention will be apparent to a person skilled in the art. It is therefore contemplated that the invention shall also cover any such modifications variations and equivalents.

