---

title: Population and/or animation of spatial visualization(s)
abstract: One or more techniques and/or systems are provided for populating and/or animating a spatial visualization, such as a map, a timeline, and/or other 2D and/or 3D visual representations of locations. The spatial visualization may be populated with events extracted from a data source (e.g., real-time events, news events, social network events, etc.), and may include relationships between events (e.g., based upon time, location, contextual similarity (e.g., social network check-in events at a restaurant), events referencing one another (e.g., an article describing a first event may comprise a hyperlink to an article describing a second event) etc.). Filter criteria (e.g., date, event type, location, etc.) may be applied to events and/or relationships when populating the spatial visualization. A sequence of events and corresponding relationships may be animated within the spatial visualization (e.g., as the events unfold over a (user) designated period of time).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09009159&OS=09009159&RS=09009159
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09009159
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120123
---
Today users are able to create organize share and or interact with a wide variety of digital information or content. In one example a user may interact with travel directions provided by a mapping application on a cell phone. In another example a user may be able to create a social network profile that may be shared with friends through a social network service. To aid users in locating desired content search engines may provide organized content to users in response to user search queries e.g. a photo sharing search engine a web page search engine a file system search engine etc. . Such content may be organized into textual and or visual lists. Unfortunately displaying content within such content organization structures may not provide a dynamic view of the content over time. Conventional content organizational structures may not illustrate relationships between content how content has evolved over time and or spatial information of such content. Accordingly the user may be left to sift through a vast amount of unorganized content to locate desired content while other information may be unavailable to users in a digestible form using current conventional methods.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more systems and or techniques for populating and or animating a spatial visualization are disclosed herein. It may be appreciated that a spatial visualization may comprise any one or more of a variety of location based visualizations such as maps 3D maps graphs timelines etc. The spatial visualization may be populated with events and or relationships between events. An event may comprise data associated with a location and or an event time e.g. a single date time a date time range a point in time time span time frame etc. . For example events may comprise historical events e.g. births deaths natural disasters battles etc. news stories sports events e.g. tackles shots penalties and or other key moments within a soccer game personal events e.g. taking a photo making a phone call social network checking in at a particular location performing a web search etc. real time events e.g. social network check ins web searches localized micro blogging messages etc. and or a plethora of other types of events.

In one example of populating the spatial visualization a set of events may be extracted from a data source e.g. a social network service a website a mapping service a GPS device an online article database an online encyclopedia database a real time stream of data etc. . Event types may be assigned to events based upon various factors. In one example an event type field defined by or within the data source may be evaluated to identify the event type e.g. a social network service may explicitly define an event as a social network check in event type . In another example a classification technique may be executed upon data from the data source to identify the event type e.g. a text classification technique may be executed upon an article of an online encyclopedia website to determine that the article describes a natural disaster type of event . In this way an event may comprise an event type. The event may comprise a location which may be explicitly identified e.g. GPS location latitude longitude information etc. and or implicitly identified e.g. implied based upon address lines location names etc. . The event may comprise an event date which may be explicitly identified and or implicitly identified e.g. identified from a textual date description .

A set of relationships associated with the set of events may be created. A relationship may be defined by a first event a second event a relationship time e.g. a point in time time span time frame etc. and or a relationship type. The relationship may describe an association between the first event and the second event e.g. a directed relationship and or an undirected relationship . In one example the relationship may be based upon a temporal relationship. The temporal relationship may be identified based upon a first event time of the first event corresponding to a second event time of the second event e.g. a first shot on goal event may be temporally associated with a second shot on goal event based upon the shots on goal occurring within a few seconds of one another during a soccer game . In another example the relationship may be based upon a spatial relationship. The spatial relationship may be identified based upon a first location of the first event corresponding to a second location of the second event e.g. a first friend check in event at a movie theater may be spatially associated with a second friend check in event at the movie theater which may indicate that the first friend and second friend may be viewing a movie together . In another example the relationship may be based upon a referential relationship. The referential relationship may be identified based upon data associated with the first event comprising a reference to data associated with the second event e.g. a first article describing the first event may comprise a reference to a second article describing the second event . In another example the relationship may be based upon a contextual relationship. The contextual relationship may be identified based upon a first event type of the first event corresponding to a second event type of the second event e.g. a first shot on goal event may be contextually related to a second shot on goal event because both events may comprise an event type of blue team shot on goal event type .

The spatial visualization may be populated using one or more events from the set of events and or using one or more relationships from the set of relationships. For example the spatial visualization may comprise a soccer field map. A user may specify filter criteria that penalty events and penalty shot events by a blue team during a first half of a soccer game are to be populated within the soccer field map. In this way blue team penalty events and or blue team penalty shot events within the set of events may be populated within the spatial visualization e.g. blue team penalty events may be illustrated by blue star symbols and blue team penalty shot events may be illustrated as blue soccer ball symbols within the soccer field map . Relationships between such events may be populated within the spatial visualization. For example a directed relationship comprising a blue team penalty shot event having a directed relationship to a blue team penalty event may be illustrated as an arrowed edge from the blue team penalty event to the blue team penalty shot event. The spatial visualization may be repopulated based upon subsequent filter criteria e.g. the user may specify that shots on goal by the blue team during a second half of the soccer game are to be populated within the soccer field map . In this way a user may interactively visualize events and or relationships between events within the spatial visualization. For example the user may specify a desired time frame using any kind of interface such as text boxes drop down boxes time sliders etc.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Events such as historic events social network events sporting game events etc. may be identifiable and or described by data sources e.g. a social network service an article database an image database etc. . Unfortunately a data source may not adequately organize and or present such events to a user which may leave the user to sift through thousands of unorganized events and potentially miss desirable information inherently available in the data source but not made available through conventional methods. Additionally the data source may not identify and or describe relationships between events for the user. For example a web search engine may merely return a list of relevant websites associated with a search query submitted by a user but may not identify relationships between events described within such websites.

Accordingly among other things one or more systems and or techniques for populating a spatial visualization are provided herein. In particular a spatial visualization such as a map may be populated with events and or relationships between events. In one example the spatial visualization may be presented as an interactive user interface where events may be illustrated as symbols undirected relationships may be illustrated as edges between events and directed relationships may be illustrated as arrowed edges between events for example. It may be appreciated that other illustrations of events undirected relationships and or directed relationships are contemplated herein e.g. textual illustrations visual illustrations audio illustrations and or video illustrations may be used . The spatial visualization may be dynamically repopulated based upon occurrences of new real time events and or may be dynamically repopulated based upon filter criteria e.g. a date filter a location filter an event type filter a user preference filter etc. . For example a user may utilize a time slider to specify a time range of events to display within the spatial visualization. It may be appreciated that the time range may vary from a single point in time to a time period e.g. a time period within a few minutes a time period within a day a time period spanning a few days a time period spanning years etc. . In another example the spatial visualization may be animated over a time frame e.g. through a time slider and or text input . For example events and or relationships may unfold over time from a starting time of the time frame to an ending time of the time frame e.g. the time slider may move at a fixed speed of 1 year second for an animation of historic events over a 30 year time frame such that events and or relationships corresponding to a current time of the time slider e.g. as the slider moves at the fixed speed e.g. for 30 seconds may be illustrated within the spatial visualization .

One embodiment of populating a spatial visualization is illustrated by an exemplary method in . At the method starts. At a set of events may be extracted from a data source. In one example events may be extracted from various web sources such as a web article database. In another example events may be extracted in real time as they become available from the data source such as a real time stream of social network updates. The events may comprise a location and or an event time e.g. a penalty shot event of a soccer game may comprise a location within a soccer field and or a time at which the penalty shot event occurred . Event types may be assigned to events within the set of events. In one example an event type field defined by the data source may be evaluated to identify the event type e.g. a social network data source may specify that a friend check in event is of a check in event type . In another example a classification technique may be executed upon data from the data source to identify the event type e.g. a text based classification technique may be executed upon an article to determine that the article describes a historic battle which may be assigned a battle event type . In this way an event may comprise a location an event time and or an event type for example.

At a set of relationships associated with the set of events may be created. A relationship may comprise a first event a second event a relationship time e.g. a point in time time span time frame etc. and or a relationship type. In one example the relationship may comprise a directed relationship from the first event to the second event e.g. a penalty kick event may have a directed relationship to a penalty event because the penalty kick event resulted from the occurrence of the penalty event . In another example the relationship may comprise an undirected relationship between a first event and a second event e.g. a first party invitation acceptance event associated with Dan and a second party invitation acceptance event associated with Colleen to the same party may have an undirected relationship . The relationship time may be defined based upon a first event time of the first event and a second event time of the second event. It may be appreciated however that as provided herein the relationship may be defined in any other way which describes a time time span time frame etc. during which a relationship exists between the two events. The relationship type may be defined based upon a first event type of the first event and a second event type of the second event. It may be appreciated however that the relationship may additionally or alternatively be derived from other event properties e.g. such as time and or location and or derived through other manner s . In this way a relationship may comprise a first event a second event a relationship time and or a relationship type.

In one example of creating a relationship the relationship may be based upon a temporal relationship identified based upon a first event time of the first event and a second event time of the second event. For example a temporal relationship may be identified based upon a first check in event at a movie theater by Dan with a 9 00 pm event time and a second check in event at the movie theater by Colleen with a 9 01 pm event time e.g. Dan and Colleen attended the movie together . In another example of creating a relationship the relationship may be based upon a spatial relationship identified based upon a first location of the first event corresponding to a second location of the second event e.g. a spatial relationship may be identified based upon a first Japan earthquake article describing a rescue event in Sendai and a second Japan earthquake article describing a survivor story event in Sendai . In one example temporal relationships and or spatial relationships may be based upon threshold time spans and or threshold distances.

In another example of creating a relationship the relationship may be based upon a referential relationship identified based upon data associated with the first event comprising a reference to data associated with the second event e.g. a referential relationship may be identified based upon a first article describing a rescue event comprising a reference such as a hyperlink to a second article describing a survivor story event . In another example of creating a relationship between first and second events the relationship may be based upon a contextual relationship identified based upon a first event type of the first event corresponding to a second event type of the second event e.g. a contextual relationship may be identified based upon a blue team penalty shot event type of a first penalty shot event corresponding to a blue team penalty shot event type of a second penalty shot event . It may be appreciated that a relationship may be based upon a variety of other types of relationships and or may be based upon a combination of one or more types of relationships.

At a spatial visualization may be populated using one or more events from the set of events and or one or more relationships from the set of relationships. The spatial visualization may comprise a variety of visualizations such as a map a timeline and or a visual representation of a physical location for example. Events may be represented as symbols within the spatial visualization e.g. a restaurant check in event may be represented by a food symbol while a movie check in event may be represented by a movie reel symbol . A symbol of an event may be sized according to an importance ranking which may be determined based upon evaluating data associated with the event from the data source. For example a symbol representing a first soccer shot event resulting in a final game winning goal may be sized larger than a symbol representing a second soccer shot event resulting in a goalie save e.g. a high importance ranking may be assigned to the first soccer shot event based upon evaluating an article describing the game winning shot of the soccer game .

The spatial visualization may be populated based upon filter criteria e.g. a date filter a location filter an event type filter a user preference filter etc. . For example the filter criteria may be applied to the set of events to create a filtered set of events e.g. a soccer shot event type filter may be used create a filtered set of soccer shot events out of some or all events recorded in a soccer game . The filter criteria may be applied to the set of relationships to create a filtered set of relationships e.g. a penalty resulting in penalty kick filter may be used to create a filtered set of directed relationships of penalty kick events having directed relationships to penalty events . In this way the spatial visualization may be populated and or repopulated based upon the filter criteria. The spatial visualization may be presented as an interactive user interface e.g. a user may visually explore dynamic events and or relationships that may be populated and or repopulated within the spatial visualization based upon user input such as filter criteria specified by the user and or based upon occurrences of new real time events . Events may be illustrated as symbols undirected relationships may be illustrated as edges between events and or directed relationships may be illustrated as arrowed edges between events for example. In one example a first spatial visualization e.g. check in events occurring in April may be linked to a second spatial visualization e.g. check in events occurring in May which may provide a user friendly interface for a user to explore events across various spatial visualizations. At the method ends

One embodiment of populating a spatial visualization is illustrated by an exemplary method in . At the method starts. It may be appreciated that in one example a set of events may have been extracted from a data source and that a set of relationships associated with the set of events may have been created. At filter criteria e.g. a date filter a location filter an event type filter a user preference filter etc. may be received. In one example a user may have set a user preference filter that social network check in events from a particular set of friends are to be displayed within the spatial visualization. In another example a user may have slid a time slider to a particular date time range which may be received as a date filter. In another example GPS coordinates of a cell phone may be received as a location filter. It may be appreciated that in one example a user of the cell phone may consent e.g. turn on an option for GPS coordinates of the cell phone to be utilized. In another example a user may have selected a penalty kick event type within an event type dropdown box which may be received as an event type filter.

At one or more events from the set of events may be identified based upon the filter criteria e.g. penalty kick events and penalty events of a soccer game may be identified based upon a penalty kick event type filter and a penalty event type filter . At one or more relationships associated with the one or more events may be identified e.g. directed relationships between penalty kick events to penalty events may be identified . At the spatial visualization may be populated using the one or more events and or the one or more relationships e.g. an interactive soccer field map may be populated . In one example the spatial visualization may be animated over a time frame e.g. if a time frame of 45 minutes is specified then each minute of the soccer game may be represented as a second of animation and thus an animation time slider may move at one minute second during a 45 second animation . At the method ends.

The population component may be configured to populate the spatial visualization using one or more events from the set of events and or one or more relationships from the set of relationships . In one example the population component may be configured to receive filter criteria e.g. a date filter a location filter an event type filter a user preference filter etc. . The population component may apply the filter criteria to the set of events and or the set of relationships to determine the one or more events and or the one or more relationships with which to populate the spatial visualization . For example a user may specify an interest in party events and restaurant check in events of friends from a social network. The spatial visualization may be populated with a party invitation event of a party host a party acceptance event of a party attendee 1 a party acceptance event of a party attendee 2 and or a party acceptance event of a party attendee 3 which may be illustrated as black circle symbols. The spatial visualization may be populated with contextually based directed relationships from the party acceptance events to the party invitation event because such events may relate to a party e.g. and thus are contextually based and are directed because the acceptance events may have occurred in response to the party invitation event . The spatial visualization may be populated with a restaurant check in event of friend 1 a restaurant check in event of friend 2 and or a restaurant check in event of friend 3 which may be illustrated as transparent circle symbols with slanted lines or hash marks. The spatial visualization may be populated with spatially based undirected relationships between the restaurant check in events because the restaurant check in events may have occurred within a threshold distance and or time of one another but not necessarily in response to a particular event e.g. the party invitation event and thus may be treated as undirected relationships.

The interaction component may be configured to receive filter criteria e.g. a date filter a location filter an event type filter a user preference filter etc. . The interaction component may be configured to create a filtered set of events and or a filtered set of relationships based upon the filter criteria . In this way the interaction component may be configured to repopulate the spatial visualization based upon the filtered set of events and or the filtered set of relationships.

The animation component may be configured to animate the spatial visualization over a time frame e.g. illustrate events and or relationships as they occur or unfold during the time frame . For example a 10 hour time frame may be set for the spatial visualization such that events and or relationships may be illustrated within the spatial visualization as they occur during the 10 hour time frame. For example 20 minute portions of the 10 hour time frame may be represented as 1 second animation time frames e.g. an animation time slider may move at 20 minutes second during a 30 second animation of a 10 hour period of time . For example events and or relationships occurring within a first 20 minutes may be illustrated within the spatial visualization during a first 1 second animation time frame events and or relationships occurring within a second 20 minutes may be illustrated within the spatial visualization during a second 1 second animation time frame etc. In this way events and or relationships may be animated within the spatial visualization as they unfold over time.

Event may be associated with metadata describing event as being based upon a social network update from Kim s profile at 12 20 pm indicating that Kim is at Dan s Deli Lunch Foods to meet Bill for lunch. Event may comprise a location of Dan Deli Lunch Foods an event time of 12 20 pm and or an event type of restaurant check in e.g. the social network may have specified that event is of a check in event type which may be further identified as a restaurant check in type based upon performing a web search query and or a classification technique to determine that Dan s Deli Lunch Foods is a restaurant .

Event may be associated with metadata describing event as being based upon a social network message from Colleen s profile at 9 00 am which invited Sebastian George Kathy and four others to a birthday party. Event may comprise a location of Colleen s house an event time of 9 00 am e.g. when the social network message was sent and an event type of birthday party e.g. the birthday party event type may have been identified based upon a text based classification technique executed upon the social network message and or from an event type that was chosen by Colleen explicitly and stored with the message event .

Event may be associated with metadata describing event as being based upon a social network message from Sebastian s profile at 10 25 AM which accepted the invitation from Colleen for the birthday party. Event may comprise a location of Sebastian s house e.g. where the social network message was created an event time of 10 25 am e.g. when the social network message was sent and an event type of birthday party e.g. the birthday party event type may have been identified based upon a text based classification technique executed upon the social network message and or from an event type associated with the acceptance message event .

Relationship may correspond to an undirected relationship between a first event Bill s restaurant check in event and a second event Kim s restaurant check in event. Relationship may be undirected because respective events may not have caused the occurrence of the other event. Relationship may be based upon a spatial relationship and or a temporal relationship between the first event and the second event because both events may have occurred at a similar location e.g. a restaurant and or at a similar time e.g. 12 15 pm and 12 20 pm . In this way relationship may comprise the first event the second event the relationship time and or the relationship type.

In one example of populating the spatial visualization friend check in events may be illustrated as black circle symbols within the neighborhood map near locations at which such friend check in events occurred. For example a first friend check in event a second friend check in event a third friend check in event and or a fourth friend check in event may be illustrated near a school location within the neighborhood map e.g. four friends may have checked in near the school between 9 00 am and 4 00 pm . Undirected relationships between the second friend check in event the third friend check in event and or the fourth friend check in event may be illustrated based upon a temporal relationship and or a spatial relationship e.g. three friends may have checked in from the same classroom and or at substantially the same time e.g. during the same class period whereas the first friend check in event may have occurred at a somewhat different location and or time . The relationship may also represent other undirected properties such as students that are friends visit the same class are of the same age and or gender etc. e.g. not merely local and or temporal in nature etc. .

A fifth friend check in event and or a sixth friend check in event may be illustrated near a store location within the neighborhood map e.g. two friends may have checked in near the store between 9 00 am and 4 00 pm . An undirected relationship may be illustrated between the fifth friend check in event and the sixth friend check in event based upon a temporal relationship a spatial relationship and or a referential relationship e.g. two friends may have checked in at the store at a similar time while at least one of the friends may have specified referenced that they were with the other friend at the store . A seventh friend check in event and an eighth friend check in event may be illustrated near a restaurant location within the neighborhood map. However no relationship may be created between the seventh and eighth friend check in events because no relationship may exist e.g. one friend may have checked in at 10 00 am at the restaurant while the other friend may have checked in at 1 00 pm at the restaurant . In this way the spatial visualization may be populated with events and or undirected relationships based upon the filter criteria .

In one example of repopulating the spatial visualization friend check in events may be illustrated as black circle symbols within the neighborhood map near locations at which such friend check in events occurred. For example a first friend check in event may be illustrated near a store e.g. a friend may have checked in near the store around 6 00 pm . A first set of friend check in events may be illustrated near a restaurant e.g. four friends may have checked in near the restaurant around 6 00 pm . Undirected relationships may be illustrated between the first set of friend check in events based upon a contextual relationship e.g. the friend check in events may all be dinner check in event types and or a referential relationship e.g. the four friends may have specified referenced that they were checking in together for dinner at the restaurant .

A second set of friend check in events may be illustrated near the restaurant e.g. four other friends may have checked in near the restaurant around 6 00 pm . Undirected relationships may be illustrated between the second set of friend check in events based upon a contextual relationship e.g. the friend check in events may all be dinner check in event types and or a referential relationship e.g. the four other friends may have specified referenced that they were checking in together for dinner at the restaurant . In this way the spatial visualization may be repopulated with events and or undirected relationships based upon the filter criteria e.g. at a later point in time fewer events are occurring near the school and more events are occurring near the restaurant .

In one example of populating the spatial visualization shopping check in events may be illustrated as transparent circle symbols with slanted or hashed lines dinner check in events may be illustrated as transparent circle symbols with checkered lines and birthday party events e.g. birthday invitation events and or birthday invitation acceptance events may be illustrated as black circle symbols within the neighborhood map. Undirected relationships may be illustrated as edges between two circle symbols and directed relationships may be illustrated as arrowed edges from a first circle symbol to a second circle symbol within the neighborhood map.

In one example a shopping check in event may be illustrated near a store e.g. a friend may have checked in near the store between 8 00 pm and 11 00 pm . A first dinner check in event a second dinner check in event and a third dinner check in event may be illustrated near a restaurant. An undirected relationship between the first dinner check in event and the second dinner check in event may be illustrated based upon a temporal relationship e.g. two friends may have checked in from the restaurant around similar times . However no relationship may be determined for the third dinner check in event e.g. which may have occurred more than an hour after the first and second dinner check in events .

A birthday invitation event may be illustrated near Colleen s house within the neighborhood map e.g. Colleen may have sent a birthday party invitation message from her house between 8 00 pm and 11 00 pm . A first birthday invitation acceptance event may be illustrated near Kathy s house e.g. Kathy may have sent a birthday party acceptance message from her house between 8 00 pm and 11 00 pm . A second birthday invitation acceptance event may be illustrated near George s house e.g. George may have sent a birthday party acceptance message from his house between 8 00 pm and 11 00 pm . A third birthday invitation acceptance event may be illustrated near Sebastian s house e.g. Sebastian may have sent a birthday party acceptance message from his house between 8 00 pm and 11 00 pm . A set of directed relationships e.g. a first directed relationship from the first birthday invitation acceptance event to the birthday invitation event a second directed relationship from the second birthday invitation acceptance event to the birthday invitation event a third directed relationship from the third birthday invitation acceptance event to the birthday invitation event may be illustrated from the birthday invitation acceptance events to the birthday invitation event because the birthday invitation acceptance events occurred in response to the birthday invitation event . In this way the spatial visualization may be populated with various types of events directed relationships and or undirected relationships based upon the filter criteria .

In one example of populating the spatial visualization shot events may be illustrated as black circle symbols within the soccer field map near locations at which such shot events occurred. For example a first shot event and a second shot event may be illustrated near a red team s soccer goal. The first shot event may be illustrated with a larger black circle symbol than the second shot event because the first shot event may have been a faster more difficult etc. shot e.g. indicated by a relatively high importance ranking while the second shot event may have been a slower less difficult etc. shot e.g. indicated by a relatively low importance ranking . An undirected relationship between the first shot event and the second shot event may be illustrated because such shots may have both been made by the same player Emily. A third shot event a fourth shot event and or a fifth shot event may be illustrated within the soccer field map. The fourth shot event may be illustrated with a larger black circle symbol than the third shot event and or the fifth shot event because the fourth shot event may have been a faster more difficult etc. shot e.g. indicated by a relatively high importance ranking while the third shot event and or the fifth shot event may have been slower less difficult etc. shots e.g. indicated by a relatively low importance ranking . A set of undirected relationships may be illustrated between the third fourth and fifth shot events because such shots may have all been made by the same player Bill.

Tackle events may be illustrated as transparent circle symbols with checkered lines within the soccer field map near locations at which such tackle events occurred. For example a first tackle event and a second tackle event may be illustrated within the soccer field map. An undirected relationship may be illustrated between the first tackle event and the second tackle event because such tackles may have been made by the same player Emily. A third tackle event and a fourth tackle event may be illustrated near the blue team s soccer goal. An undirected relationship may be illustrated between the third tackle event and the fourth tackle event because such tackles may have all been made by goalie Ray. The third tackle event may be illustrated with a larger circle symbol than the fourth tackle event because the third tackle event may have resulted in a longer interruption in play for example e.g. indicated by a relatively high importance ranking . In this way the spatial visualization may be populated with various types of events and or undirected relationships based upon the filter criteria .

In one example of populating the spatial visualization shot events may be illustrated as transparent circle symbols with checkered lines within the soccer field map near locations at which such shot events occurred. For example a first shot event a second shot event and or a third shot event may be illustrated within the soccer field map. Throw in events may be illustrated as black circle symbols within the soccer field map near locations at which such throw in events occurred. For example a first throw in event a second throw in event and or a third throw in event may be illustrated within the soccer field map. Directed relationships may be illustrated as arrowed edges between events. For example a first directed relationship may be illustrated as an arrowed edge from the first shot event to the first throw in event because the first shot may have caused the first throw in event to occur during the second half of the soccer game e.g. the first shot may have caused the ball to go over the side line thus resulting in the first throw in . A second directed relationship may be illustrated as an arrowed edge from the second shot event to the second throw in event because the second shot may have caused the second throw in event to occur during the second half of the soccer game e.g. the second shot may have caused the ball to go over the side line thus resulting in the second throw in . A third directed relationship may be illustrated as an arrowed edge from the third shot event to the third throw in event because the third shot may have caused the third throw in event to occur during the second half of the soccer game e.g. the third shot may have caused the ball to go over the side line thus resulting in the third throw in . In this way the spatial visualization may be populated with various types of events and or directed relationships based upon the filter criteria . The second throw in event may be illustrated with a larger black circle symbol because the second throw in event may have led to a scoring shot e.g. indicated by a relatively high importance ranking .

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of and or at least some of exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

