---

title: Game control device, program, recording medium, game control method, game control system
abstract: A game control device includes an accepter configured to accept an access request including user-specific user identification information from at least one communication terminal; a detector configured to detect accesses from a plurality of communication terminals that are associated with identical user identification information, the plurality of communication terminals including a first communication terminal and a second communication terminal; a game executer configured to execute a game for a user of user identification information after access from any one of the plurality of communication terminals based on user identification information; and a game controller configured to transmit game data of the game being executed to the second communication terminal in response to an operational input to the first communication terminal, after the detector detects the accesses from the plurality of communication terminals that are associated with the identical user identification information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09492753&OS=09492753&RS=09492753
owner: KONAMI DIGITAL ENTERTAINMENT CO., LTD.
number: 09492753
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20121127
---
The present invention is based upon and claims the benefit of priority of the prior Japanese Patent Application No. 2012 032622 filed on Feb. 17 2012 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a technique for controlling game progress with a communication terminal of a user via a communication network.

Recently so called social network games have become widespread which run on game applications created on the basis of operating environments such as application programming interfaces API operated on a web browser in a social networking service SNS provided by a particular service provider. Social network games may be defined as a type of online game played among a plurality of unspecified users who are communicating with each other. A player who has a communication terminal connectable to the Internet and with a web browser installed is able to enjoy network games regardless of time or location. One characteristic of the above mentioned social network game is that communication functions for socializing between players are more sophisticated than those of conventional online games. For example in social network games besides collaborative play with other players friends players exchange information through communication with friends such as greetings and contacts and give or exchange items in the game with friends.

Among the social network games described above a social network game is known which is configured such that a user is able to play each part of a plurality of parts. For example in a Japanese game magazine Appli Style Vol. 5 Eastpress Co. Ltd. page 7 a social network game Dragon Collection Registered trademark including parts of Quest Battle Combination and Drawing is described. Drawing corresponds to a drawing function with which a user obtains cards or items etc. usable in the game.

A user has enjoyed playing social network games as described above by use of mobile communication terminal irrespective of where the user is however it is difficult to realize a variety of types or forms of games on the assumption that the user uses a single communication terminal.

The present invention has been devised in consideration of the above. An object of the present invention is to provide a game control device a non transitory computer readable recording medium a game control method and a game control system that allows a variety of types or forms of games by use of a plurality of communication terminals.

An aspect of the present invention is a game control device the device being connected through a communication network to communication terminals the device comprising 

an accepter configured to accept an access request including user specific user identification information from at least one communication terminal 

a detector configured to detect accesses from a plurality of communication terminals that are associated with identical user identification information the plurality of communication terminals including a first communication terminal and a second communication terminal 

a game executor configured to execute a game for a user of user identification information after access from any one of the plurality of communication terminals based on user identification information and

a game controller configured to transmit game data of the game being executed to the second communication terminal in response to an operational input to the first communication terminal after the detector detects the accesses from the plurality of communication terminals that are associated with the identical user identification information.

In this game control device the game controller may transmit first game data of the game being executed to the first communication terminal and the game controller transmits second game data of the game being executed to the second communication terminal in response to an operational input to the first communication terminal. The second game data is different from the first game data.

This game control device may further include a correlator configured to correlate first user identification information and second user identification information in the game in response to a request from a communication terminal performing access based on the first user identification information or the second user identification information wherein

an operational input is input to the communication terminal performing access based on one of the first user identification information and the second user identification information and

the game controller transmits game data of the game being executed to a communication terminal performing access based on other of the first user identification information and the second user identification information in response to the operational input.

In this game control device if the first user identification information and the second user identification information are correlated by the correlator the game controller transmits data for viewing a game result based on the first user identification information and the second user identification information to the communication terminal performing access based on the first user identification information or the second user identification information.

The first embodiment of a game control system according to the present invention will be described below.

In the example illustrated in the communication terminals and are mobile phones. The communication terminals and are therefore called as mobile terminals and in the following explanation. The mobile terminals and may be called as mobile terminal when they are commonly referred to. In the example illustrated in the communication terminals are personal computers. The communication terminals are therefore called as PCs in the following explanation. The PCs may be called as PC when they are commonly referred to.

In this game control system a case is assumed in which there are accesses from a plurality of communication terminals to the game server for each user. In the case in which there have been accesses from a plurality of communication terminals of a user to the game server the game server identifies a main terminal and a sub terminal in executing a game provided by the game server . The main terminal is a communication terminal that receives from the game server game data of a game being played by a user. The main terminal is a communication terminal that displays primary game images of the game being executed for example. The sub terminal is a communication terminal that receives operational inputs from the user in the game being played by the user. For example the sub terminal is a communication terminal that is held by the user for operation. As described later the game data of the game being played by the user may be received from the game server .

In the example of the case is illustrated in which there are accesses to the game server from respective plurality of communication terminals of User A and User B. In this case for User A and User B the PC and the PC are main terminals of User A and User B respectively while the mobile terminal and the mobile terminal are sub terminals of User A and User B respectively.

Note that in the example of the case is illustrated in which there is an access to the game server from a single communication terminal mobile terminal of User C. In this case the mobile terminal of the user is identified as both main terminal and sub terminal.

With this game control system the game server is configured to be able to communicate with the mobile terminal and the PC as clients and provides the communication terminals with gaming service. The game server is embedded with a program that is operable on a web browser as a game application. The database server stores a variety of information for executing the games as described below. The database server is connected to the game servers by means of a wired connection for example for reading and writing the information.

The mobile terminal and the PCs each includes a web browser that is able to display a web page provided by the game server . A user plays a game by operating the sub terminal which is either of the mobile terminal and PC .

In addition to the game server an authentication server may be provided for authenticating respective users of the communication terminals although not illustrated in . Further in the case in which a plurality of the game servers is provided for receiving accesses from a large number of the communication terminals a load balancer may be provided for regulating loads among the plurality of game servers . Furthermore the game server may be configured as a single server device or as a plurality of server devices to which functions are distributed.

As represented in each mobile terminal includes a central processing unit CPU a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM an image processing unit an operational input unit a display unit and a communication interface unit as a signal transmission and reception unit. Further each mobile terminal includes a bus for transmitting control signals or data signals between the components.

The CPU loads a web browser stored in the ROM into the RAM runs the web browser therein and then executes web access to the game server according to HTTP HyperText Transfer Protocol . For example the CPU acquires data for displaying a web page from the game server through the communication interface unit on the basis of an appropriately specified uniform resource locator URL that is inputted by a user using the operational input unit and the like. The acquired data is data of objects such as images associated with a hypertext markup language HTML document and the HTML document hereinafter collectively referred to as HTML data on an as needed basis . The CPU then interprets the acquired HTML data. It should be noted that each mobile terminal may be embedded with a variety of plug ins for extending browsing functions of the web browser.

In acquiring the HTML data the CPU transmits an access request message to the game server through the communication interface unit . The access request message herein includes either a user ID user identification information preliminarily registered or a user ID inputted through the operational input unit .

The web browser displays on the display unit a web page provided by the game server through the image processing unit on the basis of the acquired HTML data. Further if either a Hyperlink or a menu on the web page is selected by a user operating the operational input unit the web browser then transmits a request to the game server that is a request for updating a web page HTTP request to transmit new HTML data for displaying the web page in accordance with the selection.

The image processing unit displays a web page on the display unit on the basis of image data for display to be provided from the CPU as an analysis result of the HTML data. For example the display unit is a liquid crystal display LCD monitor including thin film transistors arranged in a matrix manner on a pixel by pixel basis. The display unit displays the image of the web page by driving the thin film transistors on the basis of the image data for display on a display screen

In the case in which the mobile terminal is a communication terminal to which a button input method see applies the operational input unit is equipped with a button group and a button group . The button group includes a plurality of operational input buttons such as a directional instruction button and a confirmation button for receiving user operational inputs. The button group includes a plurality of operational input buttons such as an alphanumeric keypad and the like. The operational input unit also includes an interface circuit for recognizing inputs after the buttons have been pressed and outputting the inputs to the CPU . For example the direction instructional button is provided for instructing the CPU to scroll and display a web page displayed on the display unit . The confirmation button is provided for instructing the CPU to select one of a plurality of hyperlinks or menus displayed on a web page. The selected hyperlink or menu may be activated e.g. highlighted when for example a plurality of hyperlinks or menus are displayed on the web page. In the case in which the mobile terminal is a small portable terminal the aforementioned buttons are preferably disposed on the front face of the mobile terminal to allow a user to easily operate click the buttons with the thumb of the hand holding the mobile terminal . In the example illustrated in the button group is arranged below the button group and includes a plurality of operational input buttons depicted as 0 to 9 an alphanumeric keypad .

In the case in which the mobile terminal is a communication terminal to which a touch panel input method see applies the operational input unit receives touch panel method inputs inputted by mainly touching the display screen with a finger or a pen. The touch panel input method may be a known method such as a capacitance method. As illustrated in the mobile terminal may be provided with a button group despite having the touch panel input method.

The operational input unit may be equipped with a three axis accelerometer so that a direction and intensity of a swinging action is detected.

In the case in which a button input method applies to the mobile terminal for example a selection operation of a menu on a web page displayed on the mobile terminal is performed by the following steps selecting a menu with a pressing operation of the direction instructional button and subsequently confirming the selected menu with a pressing operation of the confirmation button. In the case in which a touch panel input method applies to the mobile terminal for example the selection operation is conducted by indicating touch operation with a finger or pen a position of a menu on the display screen on which the web page is displayed.

Configuration of the PC can be the same as that of the mobile terminal as illustrated in and the configuration is therefore omitted for the sake of brevity. In the case of the PC the operational input unit may be comprised of an input hardware such as a keyboard or a mouse and the like.

It should be noted that the both of the mobile terminal and the PC are communicated with the game server through the communication interface unit according to the any known wireless or wired communication protocol.

For example the game server manages a website of a game including a plurality of hierarchically structured web pages. The game server provides the mobile terminal and PCs with web service of a game. As illustrated in the game server includes a CPU a ROM a RAM a database DB access unit and a communication interface unit . Further the game server includes a bus for transmitting control signals or data signals between the components. It should be noted that the game server may have the same hardware structure as general purpose web servers.

The ROM stores an application program that provides service of displaying a HTML document and objects such as images i.e. displaying a web page to the web browser of the mobile terminal as a client. A variety of data referenceable by the CPU is stored in the ROM in addition to the application program.

The CPU loads a game program stored in the ROM into the RAM and runs the loaded game program. The CPU also performs a variety of processing through the communication interface unit .

For example the CPU transmits HTML data to the mobile terminal and or the PC through the communication interface unit . Moreover the CPU performs authentication processing in the case in which the game server performs authentication processing of the user of the mobile terminal and or the PC .

The CPU performs processing in accordance with the hyperlink or menu selected by the user on the web page displayed on the mobile terminal through the communication interface unit . The processing includes for example transmitting new HTML data calculating or data processing in the game server .

The database access unit is an interface used for the CPU to perform data reading and data writing with respect to the database server .

The database server can be realized by a general purpose storage such as a high capacity hard disc drive a redundant array of inexpensive disks RAID or other form of device. Databases inside the database server are configured to allow reading and writing of data by the CPU through the database access unit of the game server .

User ID and Password are set in user registration and are recorded by the game server . User ID and Password are data mainly for user authentication that is executed after the PC of a user accesses to the game server .

Identification information is unique information for each mobile terminal . Identification information is used mainly for user authentication that is executed after the mobile terminal of a user accesses to the game server . Identification information may be a serial number of the mobile terminal. Identification information may be a part of a user agent character string in a HTTP request transmitted from the mobile terminal to the game server .

After the HTTP request is first transmitted from the mobile terminal to the game server the identification information of the mobile terminal is incorporated into the user agent character string in the HTTP request upon the user s permission. After the identification information of the mobile terminal is first received by the game server the identification information is recorded in association with user ID for the purpose of the subsequent user authentication.

Note that in the case in which both the main terminal and the sub terminal are mobile terminals in executing the game provided by the game server the identification information of those two mobile terminals are recorded.

Terminal information of main terminal is information of the communication terminal identified as main terminal among a plurality of communication terminals when the game server is accessed from the plurality of communication terminals of the user to be processed. The terminal information of the communication terminal may be any information that identifies the communication terminal such as address information like IP address etc. Note that as described later a method to identify a main terminal or a sub terminal may be as follows. For example the user agent character string in a HTTP request which is transmitted from the communication terminal to the game server includes information about an operating system and a web browser. For example in the case in which there are accesses from a user through both a mobile terminal and a PC because operating systems installed into the mobile terminal and the PC are different it is possible to identify whether the communication terminal performing each access is the mobile terminal or the PC. In such case the PC may be identified as a main terminal while the mobile terminal may be identified as a sub terminal.

Terminal information of a sub terminal is information of the communication terminal identified as a sub terminal among a plurality of communication terminals after the game server is accessed from the plurality of communication terminals of the user to be processed. The terminal information of the communication terminal may be any information that identifies the communication terminal such as address information like IP address etc.

An example of a game provided by the game server will be explained with reference to . illustrates a situation in which a user plays a fishing game which is an example of a motion sensing game by use of the user s mobile terminal and user s PC . illustrates an image regarding the fishing game displayed on the mobile terminal . illustrates a situation in which a user plays the fishing game with the mobile terminal only.

In a game image of the fishing game being executed is displayed on the PC in response to a user operation to the mobile terminal as sub terminal. The game image that is displayed on the display unit of the PC includes a fishing rod object P a bait object P and fish objects P that move in a pond which is a background image for example.

This fishing game is configured such that the fish objects P randomly move on the game image and after reaching the bait object P at the edge of the fishing rod object P the fish object P stops moving for a certain period of time.

The user performs casting with regard to the fishing rod object P in the fishing game by swinging the mobile terminal . Depending on intensity and a direction namely output value of the accelerometer in the operational input unit of the swinging action with respect to the mobile terminal a position is determined where the bait object P is landed on the water by the casting. In the case in which a touch panel input method applies to the mobile terminal as illustrated in a reel of the fishing rod object P is wound up in response to a user s moving operation with a finger of the user rotating on a display screen. In this fishing game it is judged that the fish object P has been caught if the user performs an operation with which the reel of the fishing rod object P is wound up while the fish object P stops moving at the position of the bait object P for a certain period of time. Further in the case in which a touch panel input method applies to the mobile terminal as illustrated in the bait object P for example may be selectable on the screen of the mobile terminal in response to moving operations with regard to the display screen with a finger of the user in the forward backward right or left direction not illustrated in .

As illustrated in based on the game progression status the mobile terminal as sub terminal may be configured to display an image including a fish tank object P. The fish tank object P contains the fish objects P which is judged to have been caught thereby allowing to visually recognize catches in fishing. In this case the fishing game progresses with two screens. An image that is displayed on the mobile terminal is updated every time it is judged that a fish object P has been caught. That is images displayed on the PC and the mobile terminal may be updated such that if it is judged that a specific fish object P has been caught then the fish object P disappears from the pond and the fish object P is added into the fish tank object P.

As exemplified in in the case in which the user plays the fishing game by use of mobile terminal only a single image including game contents of two images illustrated in may be displayed on the mobile terminal . In this case the fishing game progresses with a single screen. In the example of a display region is provided on the display screen of the mobile terminal to indicate catches in fishing.

It should be noted that the fishing game is exemplified as a game provided by the game server for convenience of explanation however a game provided from the game server is not limited to a specific type of game. Any game that is realized using a main terminal and a sub terminal may be applied.

In the present embodiment the game control device is configured for example by the game server and the database server . Hereinafter functions realized by the game control device of the present embodiment will be described with reference to in the exemplified case in which the fishing game described above is applied. is a functional block diagram for explaining functions that play main rolls in the game control device according to the present embodiment.

A registrar includes a function for recognizing a user request and executing registration processing. Such request is based on a suitable operational input to the mobile terminal or PC on a web page provided to the mobile terminal or PC for example. The function of the registrar is realized for example as described below.

The CPU of the game server receives a registration request message HTTP request from the mobile terminal or the PC through the communication interface unit . In the case in which the CPU receives the HTTP request from the mobile terminal the received HTTP request includes user agent character strings containing identification information which is a serial number of the mobile terminal for example. After first receiving the identification information the CPU records the identification information in the user database in association with user ID for the purpose of subsequent user authentication.

The HTTP request that the CPU receives from the PC includes a user ID and a password specified by the user based on operational inputs to the PC . That is the HTTP request is generated in the PC so as to include input result of the user ID and the password. The HTTP request is then transmitted to the game server . After receiving the user ID and the password the CPU correlates the user ID and the password and records them in the user database for the purpose of subsequent user authentication. On the other hand the CPU of the game server receives a registration request message HTTP request and issues a new user ID and a new password if any user ID is not included in the registration request message. The CPU records the newly issued user ID and password in the user database for the purpose of subsequent user authentication.

The web page provided by the game server may be configured so that a registration request message is automatically generated by a certain operation e.g. a selection of a certain menu or a text input and the like on the mobile terminal or the PC on the web page. Information e.g. an IP address or an email address and the like for identifying the mobile terminal or the PC that is the transmission source may be included in the registration request message. Alternatively in the case in which the user plays the other game s from the same service provider the registration request message may include the user ID of that user.

After a user ID a password and or identification information of the mobile terminal are recorded in the user database the registration processing completes. The CPU transmits a registration completion message to the mobile terminal indicating that the registration processing has completed.

The accepter includes a function for accepting an access request including identification information from the mobile terminal and also includes a function for accepting an access request including a user ID from PC . The functions of the accepter are realized as described below. After receiving a HTTP request as access request from the mobile terminal or the PC of the user the CPU of the game server identifies identification information or user ID and a password based on user agent character strings included in the HTTP request. The CPU collates the identified identification information or the identified user ID and the identified password with the identification information or the user ID and the password recorded in the user data of the user database . If the received access request is one from any of the registered users the CPU accepts the access request.

The terminal information updater includes a function for recording and updating terminal information of a single or a plurality of communication terminal s of the user s whose access request has been accepted. Terminal information of a communication terminal is information capable of identifying the communication terminal like address information such as IP address etc. The terminal information updater further includes a function for identifying a main terminal and a sub terminal among the single or the plurality of communication terminal s of the user s whose access request has been accepted before the terminal information is updated.

The function of the terminal information updater is realized as described below. Based on information regarding an operating system of a transmission source communication terminal for example the CPU of the game server specifies the communication terminal as the mobile terminal or the PC . Alternatively if a HTTP request includes identification information the CPU may then determine that the transmission source communication terminal is the mobile terminal . Meanwhile if the HTTP request includes a user ID and a password the CPU may then determine that the transmission source communication terminal is the PC . Resultantly in the case in which the CPU receives accesses that are associated with identical user identification information from two communication terminals for example the CPU executes the following processing. That is if one of the two communication terminals is identified as the PC and other communication terminal is identified as the mobile terminal then the CPU identifies the PC as a main terminal and identifies the mobile terminal as a sub terminal. In the case in which an access is received from a single communication terminal the CPU identifies the communication terminal either the mobile terminal or the PC for example as both main terminal and sub terminal. After identifying a main terminal and a sub terminal the CPU writes terminal information of the identified communication terminal into the user database in association with the user ID.

A main terminal and a sub terminal in executing the game provided by the game server may be each a mobile terminal among a plurality of communication terminals of a user. In such case the CPU identifies any of mobile terminals as main terminal based on an appropriate input operation to any of the mobile terminals.

A mobile terminal and a PC are exemplified as a plurality of communication terminals in the present embodiment. In such case preferably the PC which is generally equipped with a larger display screen than the mobile terminal is identified as main terminal while the mobile terminal which is held by a user s hand is identified as sub terminal. A method for identifying a main terminal and a sub terminal is not limited to one described above. Such method may be predetermined according to a certain rule depending on a type or a character of a communication terminal performing an access. Alternatively identifying a main terminal and a sub terminal among a plurality of communication terminals may be performed based on an operational input to a communication terminal. In such case the CPU recognizes the operational input to set or exchange a main terminal and a sub terminal.

It should be noted that a communication terminal used for an access to the game server may be changed with regard to a specific user. The terminal information updater identifies a main terminal and a sub terminal every time a communication terminal in use is changed and rewrites data in the user database . For example in the case in which a user first accesses through the mobile terminal only the mobile terminal is identified as both a main terminal and a sub terminal. Then the same information regarding the mobile terminal is written into each field of Terminal information of main terminal and Terminal information of sub terminal in the user database . Thereafter in the case in which the user accesses through the PC additionally the PC is identified as main terminal while the mobile terminal is identified as sub terminal. Then the fields of Terminal information of main terminal and Terminal information of sub terminal are modified in the user database .

The detector includes a function for detecting accesses from a plurality of communication terminals that are associated with an identical user ID.

The function of the detector is realized as described below. The CPU of the game server refers to the user database to compare terminal information of the main terminal and terminal information of the sub terminal. If the terminal information of the main terminal and the terminal information of the sub terminal are identical then it is judged that there is an access from a single communication terminal. On the other hand if the terminal information of the main terminal and the terminal information of the sub terminal are not identical then it is judged that there are accesses from at least two communication terminals that are associated with an identical user ID.

The game executor includes a function for executing a game for a user of a user ID after access from a communication terminal based on the user ID.

The function of the game executor is realized as described below. After there is an access from communication terminal s namely the mobile terminal and or the PC the CPU of the game server transmits HTML data game data to that communication terminal. The transmitted HTML data is for displaying a web page including a start button of the fishing game. After receiving a HTTP request including a game start request of the fishing game in response to an operation of a user to the communication terminal the CPU starts executing the fishing game for the user thorough web pages. The fishing game is executed in the following. That is the CPU recognizes respective operational inputs of the user to the communication terminal s namely the mobile terminal and or the PC . The CPU executes a program in response to the operational inputs. Then the CPU transmits HTML data displaying web pages including execution results to the communication terminal s of the user. Operational inputs and contents to be processed in response to each operational input are written in the program of the fishing game described above.

The game data transmitted to the communication terminal s namely the mobile terminal and or the PC is not limited to HTML data but may be compressed image data of game image to be displayed on the communication terminal s . In the case in which at least a portion of a program and or data for progressing the game with the mobile terminal is included the game data transmitted to the communication terminal s may be a command for causing the program run on the communication terminal s or a command for extracting data compressed image data for example memorized in the communication terminal s etc.

The game controller includes a function for transmitting game data of the game being executed to the PC second communication terminal in response to an operational input to the mobile terminal first communication terminal in the case in which there are accesses from a plurality of communication terminals that are associated with an identical user ID. The game data may be for example HTML data as described above.

The function of the game controller may be realized as described below for example. In the case in which terminal information of the main terminal and terminal information of the sub terminal are different for user ID being processed the CPU of the game server performs the following processing. That is the CPU generates HTML data game data of the game being executed based on information of an operational input included in a HTTP request received from the sub terminal. The generated HTML data includes execution result of the program of the fishing game in response to the operational input. The CPU then transmits the HTML data to the main terminal PC in . Further as illustrated in in the case in which the fishing game progresses with two screens the CPU also transmits HTML data to the sub terminal mobile terminal in based on the information of the operational input included in the HTTP request received from the sub terminal. In this case the HTML data second game data transmitted to the main terminal and the HTML data first game data transmitted to the sub terminal are different each other.

Note that in the case in which terminal information of the main terminal and terminal information of the sub terminal are the same for user ID to be processed that is in the case in which the user accesses through a single communication terminal the CPU may transmit HTML data to the communication terminal mobile terminal for example . The transmitted HTML data is for displaying game image for a single screen as illustrated in .

Next an example of main processing flow of the game control device according to the present embodiment will be explained with reference to flowcharts of . Processing of is performed for every user ID.

The flowchart of represents processing after a registered user that is a user whose user ID is registered logins to the game server . In this case in response to an operational input by the user to communication terminal mobile terminal or PC a HTTP request access request is transmitted from the mobile terminal or the PC to the game server . The HTTP request transmitted from the mobile terminal includes identification information. The HTTP request transmitted from the PC includes a user ID and a password that have been inputted to the PC . After receiving the HTTP request Step S YES the game server performs authentication processing Step S . In the authentication processing the identification information or the user ID and the password which are included in the HTTP request are identified first. The game server then collates the identified identification information or the identified user ID and the identified password with the identification information or the user ID and the password recorded in the user data of the user database . If the received access request is a request from any of the registered users the game server accepts the access request.

After receiving an access request based on a user ID the game server accesses to the user database to record and update terminal information of the communication terminal in association with the user ID Step S . In updating the terminal information the game server identifies a main terminal and a sub terminal of the user whose access request has been accepted.

In order to identify a main terminal and a sub terminal of the user the game server first identifies a transmission source communication terminal from the mobile terminal and the PC based on information regarding an operating system of the transmission source communication terminal. The game server may identify the transmission source communication terminal as main terminal or sub terminal on the basis of whether authentication processing is performed based on identification information or on a user ID and a password. If the game server has already received an access from one of the mobile terminal and the PC that are associated with an identical user ID and receives an access from another of the mobile terminal and the PC at Step S then the game server identifies the PC as main terminal and identifies the mobile terminal as sub terminal. If the game server has not received an access from any one of the mobile terminal and the PC that are associated with an identical user ID and receives an access from the mobile terminal or the PC at Step S then the game server identifies the communication terminal mobile terminal or PC from which access is received as both main terminal and sub terminal. After identifying the main terminal and the sub terminal the game server writes terminal information of the identified communication terminal into the user database .

The flowchart of represents processing during a period of time in which the user plays the game. In the explanation below a case is assumed in which the PC is identified as main terminal while the mobile terminal is identified as sub terminal in the case in which there are accesses from a user to be processed from two communication terminals. It is also assumed that the mobile terminal is identified as both main terminal and sub terminal in the case in which there is an access from a user to be processed from a single communication terminal.

An access is received to the game server that is a user logins . Then the game server transmits HTML data game data to any one of the use s communication terminals preferably to the mobile terminal if that an access is received from a plurality of communication terminals of the user . The transmitted HTML data is for displaying a web page including a start menu of the fishing game. A HTTP request including a game start request of the fishing game is transmitted to the game server in response to a selection operation for a given menu in the web page displayed on the communication terminal Step S . After receiving the HTTP request including the game start request of the fishing game the game server starts game processing for the user of the transmission source communication terminal of the request Step S .

The game processing is started. Then after recognizing an operational input to the mobile terminal as sub terminal Step S YES the game server performs predetermined processing according to the game program of the fishing game Step S . A method for displaying results of execution of the program varies depending on whether the game server is accessed from two communication terminals of the user or is accessed from a single communication terminal of the user. Note that the game server judges whether the game server is accessed from two communication terminals of a user or is from a single communication terminal of a user with reference to the terminal information of the main terminal and the terminal information of the sub terminal in the user database .

If the game server is accessed from two communication terminals of a user Step S YES then it generates HTML data new HTML data for displaying a new web page based on the results of execution of the program. The game server then transmits the HTML data to the PC as main terminal. Alternatively as illustrated in the game server does not only transmit the HTML data to the PC but it also transmits HTML data to the mobile terminal as sub terminal Step S . The transmitted HTML data to the mobile terminal is different from the one transmitted to the PC .

Meanwhile if the game server is accessed from a single communication terminal mobile terminal in this case of a user Step S NO then it generates HTML data new HTML data for displaying a new web page based on the results of execution of the program. The game server then transmits the HTML data to the mobile terminal as both main terminal and sub terminal Step S .

After a HTTP request including a game termination request of the fishing game is transmitted to the game server in response to a selection operation of a menu on the web page Step S YES the game server terminates the game processing for the user of the transmission source communication terminal of the request.

Note that there is a case in which a user starts the game by accessing first through a single communication terminal mobile terminal for example and then accesses through the other communication terminal PC for example as well in the middle of the game. In such case after recognizing that there is an access from the PC the game server rewrites the database server such that status in which the mobile terminal is identified as both main terminal and sub terminal is changed to status in which the PC is identified as main terminal and the mobile terminal as sub terminal. The game server then switches transmission destination of the HTML data for displaying a new web page from the mobile terminal to the PC .

As described above with the game control system of the present embodiment in the case in which there are accesses that are associated with an identical user ID from two communication terminals mobile terminal and PC the game server transmits HTML data game data to the PC second communication terminal of the two communication terminals in response to an operational input to the mobile terminal first communication terminal of the two communication terminals. The transmitted HTML data is for displaying image of the game being executed. Thus for example a user may go out with a mobile terminal only and the user can enjoy a variety of games that would be difficult to realize with the mobile terminal only by use of the mobile terminal and a PC existing outside. As illustrated in for example the mobile terminal primarily functions as a controller for receiving operational inputs from the user in the game while the PC primarily functions as display device for displaying a game image thereby realizing a motion sensing game such as the exemplified fishing game. That is a user can enjoy irrespective of a place where the user is without need to bring a large input device. Note that as illustrated in an image displayed on the mobile terminal may be configured to be different from that displayed on the PC . This allows game entertainment to be enhanced since information indicating game results for respective users or items and objects etc. which the user owns in the game apart from virtual game space indicating game environment may be able to be displayed on the mobile terminal which is held by a user s hand.

The second embodiment of the game control system according to the present invention will be described hereinafter.

In the game control system of the present embodiment hardware configurations of the mobile terminal the PC the game server and the database server may be the same as those described in the first embodiment. The game control system of the present embodiment is configured such that a plurality of users are correlated as friend users through predetermined procedures and the friend users can enjoy a game. In this case the users may compete for a number of fish objects that are taken in a period of time in the game.

Functions realized by the game control device of the present embodiment will be described hereinafter with reference to in the exemplified case in which the fishing game described above is applied like the first embodiment. is a functional block diagram for explaining functions that play main rolls in the game control device according to the present embodiment. The functional block diagram of is different from that of in that correlator added. is an exemplary configuration of a user database according to the present embodiment. In the user database of the present embodiment information with regard to friend user ID s is added for respective user IDs from the user database of .

The correlator includes a function for correlating at least two different user IDs in the game in response to a request from a communication terminal performing an access based on any one of a plurality of different user IDs. That is upon request based on a user ID the correlator registers the other user ID s as friend s . Note that in the following explanation correlation of user IDs as friends is the same as correlation of the corresponding users as friends.

The function of the correlator may be realized as described below for example. The CPU of the game server receives a request message from a mobile terminal of a user corresponding to a user ID through the communication interface unit . The request message specifies a user ID that the user wishes to be a friend with that is a user ID that the user wishes to play with . A function of transmission of this request message is prepared as a function of a web page provide to the mobile terminal of the user. After receiving the request message the CPU transmits HTML data to a mobile terminal corresponding to the user ID that is included in the request message at a time when there is an access based on that user ID. The transmitted HTML data is for displaying a web page for requesting a reply to whether to approve the request from other user ID. If there is a reply to approve the request the CPU then registers the two user IDs as friends. More specifically the CPU accesses to user data for the two user IDs in the user database and writes data into the field of user ID of friends see .

In the present embodiment in addition to the function described in the first embodiment the game controller includes the following function. In the case in which two user IDs are correlated as friends by the correlator the game controller transmits game data of the game being executed to a communication terminal performing an access based on one of the two user IDs as friends in response to an operational input to the communication terminal performing an access based on another of the two user IDs as friends. Before executing the game or during execution of the game for two users whose user IDs are different the CPU of the game server recognizes that the two users are friends by referring to the user database and performs the following processing. That is based on information of an operational input included in a HTTP request which the CPU receives from the sub terminal of one user ID of two user IDs recognized as friends the CPU generates HTML data game data of the game being executed including results of execution of the fishing game program in response to the operational input. The CPU then transmits the HTML data to either or both of the main terminals of the two user IDs as friends. In the case in which the HTML data is transmitted to both of the main terminals of the two user IDs as friends the respective main terminals may display different web pages however it is preferable that the web pages displayed on the respective main terminals for the users are related such that the friend users enjoy playing synchronously.

Alternatively the CPU does not only transmit the HTML data to either or both of the main terminals of the two user IDs as friends but the CPU may also transmit HTML data to either or both of the sub terminals of the two user IDs as friends. The transmitted HTML data to either or both of the sub terminals may be different from the one transmitted to the main terminals.

In the gameplay style illustrated in game specifications may be provided in which User A and User B do fishing in a common fishing place to compete for a number of fish that are taken in a period of time for example. In such case the game controller may preferably transmit data for viewing a result of the fishing game between User A and User B to the communication terminals of User A and User B mobile terminals as sub terminals for example . An example of screen transition is illustrated in . As illustrated in a menu m that includes a text of Result of the game with User B has come out. or the like is displayed in a web page of the fishing game provided to the mobile terminal of User A after the fishing game between User A and User B terminates. Then in response to a selection operation of User A to the menu m HTML data for displaying a web page including a competition result between User A and User B Winner User A . . . in is transmitted to the mobile terminal of User A. In this case after the game between User A and User B terminates the CPU records the game result to the game database and make a content of the menu m for example displayed on an updated web page of the fishing game between User A and User B. Then after recognizing that the menu m which is displayed on the mobile terminal of User A is selected the CPU refers to the game database to acquire information about the game result between User A and User B. The CPU then generates HTML data based on the acquired information.

Next with reference to a flowchart of processing will be explained in the case in which the fishing game is performed between friend users as illustrated in . is the flowchart indicating processing performed among a main terminal a sub terminal of User A User B respectively and the game server .

In a case is assumed in which User A initially plays the game alone Step S . The game server receives a request message game participation request specifying User A or a user ID of User A from the mobile terminal of User B as sub terminal. The game server then transmits HTML data to the mobile terminal as sub terminal of User A Step S . The HTML data is for displaying a web page for requesting a reply to whether to approve the request from User B. If there is a reply to approve the request from the mobile terminal Step S the game server then registers User A and User B as friends by writing data into the field of user ID of friends for User A and User B in the user database . Once User A and User B are registered as friends the game server transmits HTML data of the executed game to the main terminals of User A and User B in response to an operational input to either one of the sub terminals of User A and User B.

After an operational input is input to the mobile terminal as sub terminal of User A for example Step S the game server executes a program in response to the operational input. The game server generates HTML data for displaying a web page that includes the execution result Step S . The game server then transmits the HTML data to the PC of User A and the PC of User B as respective main terminals Step S S . Resultantly web pages based on the HTML data are displayed on the PC and the PC Step S S . For example in the example illustrated in after User A performs an operation of swinging the mobile terminal as sub terminal casting the fishing rod object Pof User A is displayed on the PC as main terminal of User A. Here casting the fishing rod object Pof User A may be also displayed on the PC as main terminal of User B.

In the same fashion after an operational input is input to the mobile terminal as sub terminal of User B for example Step S the game server executes a program in response to the operational input. The game server generates HTML data for displaying a web page that includes the execution result Step S . Then game server then transmits the HTML data to the PC of User A and the PC of User B as respective main terminals Step S S . Resultantly web pages based on the HTML data are displayed on the PC and the PC Step S S .

Then a case is assumed in which the game between User A and User B terminates. After User A performs an operation requesting the game result a selection operation to the menu m in for example Step S the game server reads out the game result from the game database . Then game server then generates HTML data that includes the game result Step S and transmits the HTML data to the request source mobile terminal of User A Step S .

In the flowchart illustrated in the game server transmits HTML data to the PC of User A and the PC of User B as respective main terminals in response to an operational input to the mobile terminal of User A or the mobile terminal of User B as sub terminal however this is merely an example. The game server may not only transmit the HTML data to the PC of User A and the PC of User B as respective main terminals but may also transmit HTML data to either or both of the sub terminals of User A and User B either or both of the mobile terminals . The HTML data transmitted to either or both of the sub terminals may be different from the one transmitted to the main terminals. In this case time of the transmission may be at the time of Step S Sor Step S Sin . The content of the web page displayed based on the HTML data transmitted to the sub terminal s may be set in an appropriate fashion. For example the web page may include a text that shows a confirmation result of an operational input to the sub terminal s or may include an index value overviewing situation of the game a content or a score of a fishing result etc. .

Next with reference to a flowchart of processing will be explained in the case in which the fishing game is performed between friend users as illustrated in . is the flowchart indicating processing performed among a main terminal and a sub terminal of User A a main terminal and a sub terminal of User B and the game server .

In a case is assumed in which User A initially plays the game alone Step S . The game server receives a request message game participation request specifying User A or a user ID of User A from the mobile terminal of User B as main terminal and sub terminal. The game server then transmits HTML data to the mobile terminal as sub terminal of User A Step S . The HTML data is for displaying a web page for requesting a reply to whether to approve the request from User B. If there is a reply to approve the request from the mobile terminal Step S the game server then registers User A and User B as friends by writing data into the field of user ID of friends of user data for User A and User B in the user database . After User A and User B are registered as friends the game server recognizes that User B accesses through a single communication terminal. The game server then transmits a message to the mobile terminal of User B Step S . This message is to confirm whether it is okay for User B to display a game image on the main terminal PC of User A the friend of User B. After receiving a message to approve from the mobile terminal Step S the game server subsequently transmits HTML data of the executed game to the main terminal of User A in response to an operational input to either one of the sub terminals of User A and User B.

After an operational input is input to the mobile terminal as sub terminal of User A for example Step S the game server executes a program in response to the operational input. The game server generates HTML data for displaying a web page that includes the execution result Step S . The game server then transmits the HTML data to the PC of User A as main terminal Step S . Resultantly a web page based on the HTML data is displayed on the PC Step S . For example in the example illustrated in after User A performs an operation of swinging the mobile terminal as sub terminal casting the fishing rod object Pof User A is displayed on the PC as main terminal of User A.

Meanwhile after an operational input is input to the mobile terminal as sub terminal of User B for example Step S the game server executes a program in response to the operational input. The game server generates HTML data for displaying a web page that includes the execution result Step S . The game server then transmits the HTML data to the PC of User A as main terminal Step S . Resultantly a web page based on the HTML data is displayed on the PC Step S . That is User B recognizes a change of a content of the game due to User A s operation through the PC of User A and also recognizes a change of a content of the game due to User B s operation through the PC of User A.

Then a case is assumed in which the game terminates between User A and User B. After User A performs an operation requesting the game result a selection operation to the menu m in for example Step S the game server reads out the game result from the game database . Then game server then generates HTML data that includes the game result Step S and transmits the HTML data to the request source mobile terminal of User A Step S .

In the flowchart illustrated in the game server transmits HTML data to the PC of User A as main terminal in response to an operational input to the mobile terminal of User A or the mobile terminal of User B as sub terminal however this is merely an example. The game server may not only transmit the HTML data to the PC of User A as main terminal but may also transmit HTML data to either or both of the sub terminals of User A and User B either or both of the mobile terminals . The HTML data transmitted to either or both of the sub terminals is different from the one transmitted to the main terminal. In this case time of the transmission may be at the time of Step S or Step S in . The content of the web page displayed based on the HTML data transmitted to the sub terminal s may be set in an appropriate fashion. For example the web page may include a text that shows a confirmation result of an operational input to the sub terminal s or may include an index value overviewing situation of the game a content or a score of a fishing result etc. .

As illustrated in in the case in which friends play the game the gameplay style synchronous play with two screens and the gameplay style synchronous play with a single screen described above are preferably configured to be switched upon request from a user. Here a case is assumed in which User A and User B are playing synchronously with two screens for example and subsequently access from the PC of User B is disconnected. Then the game server recognizes the access disconnection by referring to the user database . The game server may then switch to synchronous play with a common single screen.

Conversely a case is assumed in which User A and User B are playing synchronously with a common single screen for example and subsequently there is an access from the PC of User B. Then the game server recognizes the access by referring to the user database . The game server may then switch to synchronous play with two screens.

As described above in the game control system of the present embodiment at least two users are correlated as friend users through predetermined procedures. Game data of the game being executed is transmitted to a main terminal of one of the two users in response to an operational input to a sub terminal of another of the two users. Thus operational inputs from the friends are reflected in contents of the game that are displayed on the communication terminals of the friends. Thereby the friends can enjoy the game together in the game control system of the present embodiment.

The exemplary embodiments of the present invention have been explained in detail. However the present invention is not limited to the aforementioned exemplary embodiments. Further it is apparent that a variety of changes and modifications can be made for the respective exemplary embodiments without departing from the scope of the present invention. Each of the technical features described in the aforementioned embodiments and the modified examples may be combined so long as inconsistency does not occur.

In the second embodiment the case is described in which two friend users User A and User B play the game together for example however a number of users playing synchronously is not limited to two. The number may be three or more. For example User A approves game participation requests from a plurality of users. Every time the request is approved data is added into the field of Friend user ID s in the user database . Then HTML data is generated such that a web page for User A represents the same game environment as web pages for the plurality of users that game participation requests are transmitted from. Moreover a web page may be configured to include a menu for recruiting during a period of time participants of a game that the game server starts at a predetermined time. That web page is displayed on communication terminals of respective registered friend users for example. HTML data for the plurality of users may be also generated such that web pages represent the same game environment for the plurality of users who wish to participate in the game during the period of time.

In the embodiments described above the case is described in which a fishing game is applied however applicable types of games are not limited to the fishing game. A motion sensing game is preferable by use of the mobile terminal at user s hand and the PC that the user primarily confirms game progression status with. Such motion sensing game other than the fishing game may be for example a bowling game a darts game or the like. In the case of the bowling game throwing a ball is simulated with action of swinging the mobile terminal for example. A result of throwing the ball is determined based on output of three axis acceleration sensor installed in the mobile terminal . A lane and pins are displayed on the PC . A user watches the result of throwing the ball on an image of the PC . In the case of the darts game throwing darts is simulated with action of moving the mobile terminal back and forth for example. A result of throwing darts is determined based on output of three axis acceleration sensor installed in the mobile terminal . A darts board is displayed on the PC . A user watches an image that shows the result of throwing darts on the PC .

Examples have been described in which a game control system is configured with a social network game in the respective embodiments described above however the present invention is not limited to the social network game. Similar configuration can be realized with so called cloud gaming On demand type game utilizing cloud computing .

A first aspect of the present invention is a game control device the device being connected through communication network to a communication terminal operated by a user the device being configured to control game execution for the user through communication network the device including 

an accepter configured to accept an access request including user specific user identification information from at least one communication terminal 

a detector configured to detect accesses from a plurality of communication terminals that are associated with identical user identification information the plurality of communication terminals including a first communication terminal and a second communication terminal 

a game executer configured to execute a game for a user of user identification information after access from any one of the plurality of communication terminals based on user identification information and

a game controller configured to transmit game data of the game being executed to the second communication terminal in response to an operational input to the first communication terminal after the detector detects the accesses from the plurality of communication terminals that are associated with the identical user identification information.

With the present game control device a user may go out with the first communication terminal only and the user can enjoy a variety of games that would be difficult to realize with the mobile terminal only by use of the first communication terminal and the second communication terminal existing outside. Particularly in the case in which the first communication terminal is relatively small mobile terminal the user can enjoy irrespective of a place where the user is without need to bring a large input device. For example the first communication terminal primarily functions as a controller for receiving operational inputs from the user in a game while the second communication terminal primarily functions as display device for displaying the game image thereby progressing the game. Moreover it can be configured such that a screen of the first communication terminal displays one content while a screen of the second communication terminal displays another content. This may enhance entertainment of games.

According to this game control device the game controller transmits first game data of the game being executed to the first communication terminal and the game controller transmits second game data of the game being executed to the second communication terminal in response to an operational input to the first communication terminal the second game data being different from the first game data.

That is it may be configured such that an image displayed on the first communication terminal is different from one displayed on the second communication terminal in response to an operational input to the first communication terminal. This allows the user to utilize for game image display the first communication terminal at the user s hand for operational inputs and the second communication terminal that can be remotely positioned from the user primarily for game image display. Thus flexibility of games that are realized is enhanced. For example virtual game space indicating game environment can be displayed on the second communication terminal while user specific information such as information indicating game results for respective users for example or items and objects etc. that the respective users own in the game can be displayed on the first communication terminal.

This game control device may further include a correlator configured to correlate first user identification information and second user identification information in the game in response to a request from a communication terminal performing an access based on the first user identification information or the second user identification information wherein

an operational input is input to the communication terminal performing access based on one of the first user identification information and the second user identification information and

the game controller transmits game data of the game being executed to a communication terminal performing access based on another of the first user identification information and the second user identification information in response to the operational input.

With this configuration in response to an operational input of a user to a communication terminal the game data of the game being executed is transmitted to communication terminal s of the other user s in the communication among a plurality of users that are correlated. Thus operational inputs of respective users that are correlated reflects game contents that are displayed on communication terminals of the respective users. This allows the plurality of users to enjoy the game together.

In this game control device if the first user identification information and the second user identification information are correlated by the correlator then the game controller transmits data for viewing a game result based on the first user identification information and the second user identification information to the communication terminal performing an access based on the first user identification information or the second user identification information.

A second aspect of the present invention is a non transitory computer readable recording medium containing a program for enabling a computer to perform a method the method comprising 

accepting an access request including user specific user identification information from at least one communication terminal 

detecting accesses from a plurality of communication terminals that are associated with identical user identification information the plurality of communication terminals including a first communication terminal and a second communication terminal 

executing a game for a user of user identification information after access from any one of the plurality of communication terminals based on user identification information and

transmitting game data of the game being executed to the second communication terminal in response to an operational input to the first communication terminal after the accesses are detected from the plurality of communication terminals that are associated with the identical user identification information.

The computer may be for example a network server or a large computer etc. This program may be stored in a computer readable information storage medium such as DVD ROM CD ROM etc. That is a third aspect of the present invention is a computer readable storage medium in which the program described above is recorded.

accepting an access request including user specific user identification information from at least one communication terminal 

detecting accesses from a plurality of communication terminals that are associated with identical user identification information the plurality of communication terminals including a first communication terminal and a second communication terminal 

executing a game for a user of user identification information after access from any one of the plurality of communication terminals based on user identification information and

transmitting game data of the game being executed to the second communication terminal in response to an operational input to the first communication terminal after the accesses are detected from the plurality of communication terminals that are associated with the identical user identification information.

A fifth aspect of the present invention is a game control system including a communication terminal operated by a user and a game control device the device being connected through communication network to the communication terminal the device being configured to control game execution by the user through communication network the game control device including 

an accepter configured to accept an access request including user specific user identification information from at least one communication terminal 

a detector configured to detect accesses from a plurality of communication terminals that are associated with identical user identification information the plurality of communication terminals including a first communication terminal and a second communication terminal 

a game executer configured to execute a game for a user of user identification information after access from any one of the plurality of communication terminals based on user identification information and

a game controller configured to transmit game data of the game being executed to the second communication terminal in response to an operational input to the first communication terminal after the detector detects the accesses from the plurality of communication terminals that are associated with the identical user identification information.

