---

title: Social network-assisted electronic payments
abstract: Techniques, a system and an article of manufacture for social network-assisted electronic payments. A method includes determining one or more members of a user's social network to query for a financial contribution towards payment of a real-time transaction between the user and a merchant, querying said one or more members in an order based on descending likelihood of member financial contribution until sufficient funds for payment of the transaction are received or all of said one or more members have been queried, and processing a money transfer from the user and/or each of said one or more members to the merchant to complete the real-time transaction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09218594&OS=09218594&RS=09218594
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09218594
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121109
---
Embodiments of the invention generally relate to information technology and more particularly to electronic payment technology.

Approaches are being developed to enable an individual to make payments using his or her mobile phone either at a Point of Sale PoS terminal or on the Web. This will potentially preclude individuals from needing to carry around cash or equivalents such as credit and debit cards. Such approaches include vendors storing customers credit card and bank account information and allowing users to select a stored payment option when a payment is required. However in such approaches PoS terminals may require specialized hardware and software that recognizes the payment protocol and these approaches do not include awareness of a customer s social network nor do they provide support for friends or participants in a customer s social network to assist in payment of a real time transaction.

Accordingly a need exists to provide a mechanism and or system that allow a mobile device owner to elicit payment contributions from other individuals using virtual social network connections to contribute to a real time mobile assisted payment.

In one aspect of the present invention techniques for social network assisted electronic payments are provided. An exemplary computer implemented method for executing an electronic payment with collaboration from a social network can include steps of determining one or more members of a user s social network to query for a financial contribution towards payment of a real time transaction between the user and a merchant querying said one or more members in an order based on descending likelihood of member financial contribution until sufficient funds for payment of the transaction are received or all of said one or more members have been queried and processing a money transfer from the user and or each of said one or more members to the merchant to complete the real time transaction.

In another aspect of the invention an exemplary computer implemented method can include steps of identifying a list of members of a user s social network determining one or more members from the list of members to query for a financial contribution towards payment of a real time transaction between the user and a merchant and determining an order in which to contact the one or more members of a user s social network to query for a financial contribution based on each member s likelihood of agreeing to the financial contribution. The method also includes querying said one or more members in said order until sufficient funds for payment of the transaction are received or all of said one or more members have been queried and processing a money transfer from the user and or each of said one or more members to the merchant to complete the real time transaction.

Another aspect of the invention or elements thereof can be implemented in the form of an article of manufacture tangibly embodying computer readable instructions which when implemented cause a computer to carry out a plurality of method steps as described herein. Furthermore another aspect of the invention or elements thereof can be implemented in the form of an apparatus including a memory and at least one processor that is coupled to the memory and operative to perform noted method steps. Yet further another aspect of the invention or elements thereof can be implemented in the form of means for carrying out the method steps described herein or elements thereof the means can include hardware module s or a combination of hardware and software modules wherein the software modules are stored in a tangible computer readable storage medium or multiple such media .

These and other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of illustrative embodiments thereof which is to be read in connection with the accompanying drawings.

As described herein an aspect of the present invention includes social network assisted electronic payments. At least one embodiment of the invention includes providing a mechanism to enable a customer to make a purchase at a Point of Sale PoS terminal through his or her mobile device with the financial assistance of his or her social network members.

As detailed further herein at least one embodiment of the invention includes a software agent that mediates a purchase by identifying one or more members of the user s customer s social network to contact as well as an order in which to contact those members for the purpose of soliciting payments. The likelihood of a social network member friend assisting in payment can be determined for example dynamically using each member s friend s availability presence attributes financial state if available friendship status and or past payment history. Further at least one embodiment of the invention includes subsequently contacting the members friends in decreasing order of contribution likelihood.

Additionally at least one embodiment of the invention can include configuring a telecommunication network operator as a mediator to facilitate an entire payment process from the time the payment request was triggered to the time when the merchant represented for example by a Point of Sale PoS terminal received a valid payment authorization from an authentic financial provider. Also completion of a payment can be carried out through an available combination of money transfers a telecommunication network operator maintained wallet and authorizations to withdraw money from financial accounts shared by social network members.

In a typical example scenario the entities that participate in an online purchase protocol include a customer who attempts to purchase goods or services a merchant who sells goods or services in exchange for payment and payment providers such as banks and credit card companies. As described herein at least one example embodiment of the invention presumes the use of a mobile payment mechanism that is the payment transaction is performed with a mobile device and without using physical credit or debit cards. By way of example the mobile device can include a mobile telephone a tablet a laptop computer etc.

Payments can be carried out for instance through a secure payment gateway protocol such as illustrated in . The protocol is used in purchases made over the Internet and at PoS terminals. In at least one embodiment of the invention it is assumed that the purchase is being made at a PoS terminal controlled by the merchant.

As illustrated in the customer via her mobile device selects goods or services to purchase and the PoS terminal prepares a purchase order for the set of goods or services. As noted the customer s mobile device and the PoS terminal identify and authenticate each other resulting in a purchase request for a certain amount appearing on the mobile device s interface. If the customer elects to make the purchase her mobile device presents a set of available payment methods on its interface.

The customer selects a purchase option such as for example a bank account a credit card account or a mobile wallet provided by a telecom operator . The customer s request can be redirected to the payment gateway . In systems involving credit or debit card swiping at a PoS terminal for example the PoS terminal is connected to the payment gateway . The payment gateway resolves the bank credit association that holds the customer s account and forwards the request to its payment processor and the payment processor either approves or rejects the payment request depending on a variety of factors available balance suspicious transaction alert etc. . Also if the payment processor is hosted by a credit card the request may again be forwarded to the bank that is backing the account.

The response is redirected along the same chain to the customer s device . Additionally the response including a payment authorization or fund transfer notification is sent to the PoS terminal and the protocol is completed.

The nature and placement of the payment mediator component can vary but its role is generally illustrated in . In at least one embodiment of the invention a telecommunication network operator that connects the mobile device and the merchant s PoS terminal runs the payment mediation software. In one or more additional embodiments of the invention the payment mediation component can run as an agent on the customer s mobile device itself or in a software cloud. In any embodiment moreover the payment mediator component is an entity trusted by both the customer s mobile device and by the merchant s PoS terminal .

Additionally as depicted in an aspect of the invention includes modifying the payment protocol to include a social network payment mechanism option which leverages the user s social network and participants members and or friends therein. This option can be for example automatically selected by evaluating a suitable configured policy. Upon selection the payment mediator component conducts a friend payment request protocol as illustrated in .

Accordingly is a flow diagram illustrating payment mediator functions according to an embodiment of the present invention. The protocol begins in step and step includes the mediator determining a list of members in the customer s social network . This determination can be carried out in a variety of ways. The customer for example may choose to reveal the list of his or her social network friends directly to the payment mediator component or do so through a secure application programming interface API and protocol supported by the concerned social network. Additionally for example a Single Sign On SSO mechanism can be used to gain temporary permissions to access a customer s social network information. This can achieve the objective of keeping the social network friends participation in the payment hidden from the customer thereby preserving the privacy of those friends or members.

After determining the list of friends a prioritized subset of the list is selected by the payment mediator component in step . These friends in at least one embodiment of the invention are selected based on their likelihood of responding positively to the customer s payment request. A variety of criteria can be used to make this selection and the probability threshold that a member friend needs to pass to be selected can also vary. Examples of such criteria can include the following.

If it is possible to infer whether a friend is actively receiving incoming messages on his or her mobile device that friend is likely to be selected. On the other hand if the friend is offline he or she will be less likely to be selected. If the telecom operator acts as the payment mediator this check can be performed in a straightforward manner as the operator can track the presence of its subscribers.

Another criterion can include the financial state of the particular member or friend. This is sensitive information but if the payment mediator component is acting as a payment proxy for multiple subscribers it is likely to be privy to relevant information of its subscribers using delegated permissions . In addition if a telecom operator is acting as the payment mediator it may maintain mobile wallets for the members friends. Using one or more pieces of available knowledge the payment mediator may determine whether a friend s financial balance is sufficient to allow him or her to respond positively to the original customer s request.

Other criteria can also be used to determine the likelihood that a social network member or friend will make a contribution. The social network communication data could be searched to determine which members or friends the customer interacts with most often thereby inferring that such a friend is more likely to contribute. On the other hand a friend with whom a customer rarely or never communicates will be less likely to contribute. Also for example a member or friend who lives within the same city or locality as the customer may also be more likely to contribute and therefore may be prioritized by the payment mediator component .

Further for example the payment mediator component can maintain the history of past payments made upon similar requests and record the willingness of individual social network members to accede to requests. Using such information a loan network for example may be superimposed upon the social network graph the strength of links indicating the likelihood that a member will give or loan money to another. Under such an embodiment it is assumed that customer X is more likely to lend money to customer Y in the future if X received money from Y in the past.

Additionally as depicted in once the members or friends are selected they are listed in decreasing order of their probability to contribute or respond positively to the original customer s request in step . The friends are then sent request messages in that order as illustrated in step . In one or more embodiments of the invention multiple friends may be sent simultaneous requests to reduce the total transaction time. For example the messaging can be carried out via short messaging service SMS text messages with requested response or unstructured supplementary service data USSD messages sent to the friend s mobile device. Alternatively an automated interactive voice response IVR voice call can be made. Further at least one embodiment of the invention can include a specialized software application that runs continuously on the friend s mobile device listening for incoming requests of this nature.

Upon receiving such a message the friend may choose to ignore reject or accept the request. If this friend ignores or rejects the request the next available friend is selected and a message is sent to that person as noted in step . If this or a subsequent friend accepts the request and if he or she has sufficient funds to satisfy the request the payment is processed according to a protocol as described in herein as noted in step . Accordingly step includes approving or rejecting the customer s payment request depending on the amount of accumulated funds and the protocol ends at step .

The nature of the social network contribution can vary across different embodiments of the invention. In one example embodiment the protocol detailed above in connection with can continue until a single friend who can contribute the requested funds in its entirety is discovered. If no such friend is encountered the payment protocol ends in failure. In another example embodiment partial contributions can be accepted from one or more friends. In such a scenario the protocol ends when the aggregated sum of contributions meets or exceeds the amount originally requested or if there are no remaining friends to whom to send a request.

Additionally a social network member or friend may contribute to the original customer in different ways. If both the friend and original customer maintain mobile wallets with the payment mediator component a direct wallet to wallet transfer can be carried out. Alternatively if one of the individuals has a mobile wallet whereas the other individual possesses a bank or credit account a transfer can be made from the account to the wallet or vice versa. Similar logic applies if both individuals possess bank or credit accounts and neither maintains a mobile wallet.

In another embodiment of the invention the original customer and the requested friend can hold a joint bank account and permission is required from both individuals for a successful withdrawal or online purchase. Whatever the nature of the money transfer the payment mediator component in analyzing the transfer provides a payment authorization to the merchant at the PoS terminal if the funds obtained through the friend request protocol are sufficient. If the funds are insufficient the PoS terminal and the customer s mobile device receive and display a failure notification.

Further at least one embodiment of the invention includes automation through policy configuration. If a payment mediator component is privy to the customer s and friends financial account information and possesses delegated permissions to transfer funds on behalf of the account owners explicit request messages to friends devices can be avoided in the protocol described above. By way of example such avoidance can be dictated by policy rules. For instance a friend may authorize any transfer from either a personal account or an account jointly held with the requestor less than a given amount for a given set of friends. In a payment session if the identities of the participants and the requested amount pass the policy filter a fund transfer or payment authorization can be automatically processed. If the policy check fails an explicit funds request message can be sent to the friend s mobile device.

As detailed herein aspects of the invention can be implemented in connection with purchases made at a PoS terminal in a physical store wherein the payment protocol involves a user carrying a mobile device communicating with the PoS terminal or a server backing that terminal. Additionally aspects of the invention can also be implemented in connection with virtual PoS terminals used in online stores for purchases made over the Internet. Further at least one embodiment of the invention is applicable to session or time bound purchases.

Step includes querying said one or more members in an order based on descending likelihood of member financial contribution until sufficient funds for payment of the transaction are received or all of said one or more members have been queried. Step includes processing a money transfer from the user and or each of said one or more members to the merchant to complete the real time transaction. The processing step can include automatically processing a payment from a member of the user s social network to the merchant if the queried financial contribution and the identity of the user match a pre configured member policy.

As also described herein the processing step can include processing a money transfer from a bank account owned singly by the user and or each of said one or more members to the merchant. Additionally processing can include processing a money transfer from a bank account owned jointly by the user and one of said one or more members to the merchant. Further processing can include processing a money transfer from a subscriber wallet maintained by a telecommunication network operator to the merchant and or can also include processing a payment authorization from a credit card company in connection with an account of the user and or an account of one of said one or more members to the merchant.

The techniques depicted in can also include obtaining approval of said query for a financial contribution from one of the members of a user s social network. Additionally the techniques depicted in can include determining a collection of members of the user s social network. Also at least one embodiment of the invention includes determining an order in which to contact the members of the user s social network to query for a financial contribution.

Determining an order can include determining a descending order of the one or more members based on each member s likelihood of agreeing to the financial contribution based on availability of the member to receive a query and or make a payment based on a correlation of the member s presence location with the user s presence location based on a financial state of the member and or capability of the member to make a financial contribution based on historical information about at least one past transaction etc.

The techniques depicted in can additionally include providing a software agent to mediate the transaction between the user one or more members of the user s social network and the merchant. Further at least one embodiment of the invention includes facilitating a telecommunication network operator providing data communication services to the user via a mobile device and to the merchant to mediate the transaction between the user one or more members of the user s social network and the merchant.

The techniques depicted in can also as described herein include providing a system wherein the system includes distinct software modules each of the distinct software modules being embodied on a tangible computer readable recordable storage medium. All of the modules or any subset thereof can be on the same medium or each can be on a different medium for example. The modules can include any or all of the components shown in the figures and or described herein. In an aspect of the invention the modules can run for example on a hardware processor. The method steps can then be carried out using the distinct software modules of the system as described above executing on a hardware processor. Further a computer program product can include a tangible computer readable recordable storage medium with code adapted to be executed to carry out at least one method step described herein including the provision of the system with the distinct software modules.

Additionally the techniques depicted in can be implemented via a computer program product that can include computer useable program code that is stored in a computer readable storage medium in a data processing system and wherein the computer useable program code was downloaded over a network from a remote data processing system. Also in an aspect of the invention the computer program product can include computer useable program code that is stored in a computer readable storage medium in a server data processing system and wherein the computer useable program code is downloaded over a network to a remote data processing system for use in a computer readable storage medium with the remote system.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in a computer readable medium having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

An aspect of the invention or elements thereof can be implemented in the form of an apparatus including a memory and at least one processor that is coupled to the memory and operative to perform exemplary method steps.

Additionally an aspect of the present invention can make use of software running on a general purpose computer or workstation. With reference to such an implementation might employ for example a processor a memory and an input output interface formed for example by a display and a keyboard . The term processor as used herein is intended to include any processing device such as for example one that includes a CPU central processing unit and or other forms of processing circuitry. Further the term processor may refer to more than one individual processor. The term memory is intended to include memory associated with a processor or CPU such as for example RAM random access memory ROM read only memory a fixed memory device for example hard drive a removable memory device for example diskette a flash memory and the like. In addition the phrase input output interface as used herein is intended to include for example a mechanism for inputting data to the processing unit for example mouse and a mechanism for providing results associated with the processing unit for example printer . The processor memory and input output interface such as display and keyboard can be interconnected for example via bus as part of a data processing unit . Suitable interconnections for example via bus can also be provided to a network interface such as a network card which can be provided to interface with a computer network and to a media interface such as a diskette or CD ROM drive which can be provided to interface with media .

Accordingly computer software including instructions or code for performing the methodologies of the invention as described herein may be stored in associated memory devices for example ROM fixed or removable memory and when ready to be utilized loaded in part or in whole for example into RAM and implemented by a CPU. Such software could include but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode and the like.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus . The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual implementation of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during implementation.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices and the like can be coupled to the system either directly such as via bus or through intervening I O controllers omitted for clarity .

Network adapters such as network interface may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

As used herein including the claims a server includes a physical data processing system for example system as shown in running a server program. It will be understood that such a physical server may or may not include a display and keyboard.

As noted aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in a computer readable medium having computer readable program code embodied thereon. Also any combination of computer readable media may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using an appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of at least one programming language including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described herein with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks. Accordingly an aspect of the invention includes an article of manufacture tangibly embodying computer readable instructions which when implemented cause a computer to carry out a plurality of method steps as described herein.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module component segment or portion of code which comprises at least one executable instruction for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

It should be noted that any of the methods described herein can include an additional step of providing a system comprising distinct software modules embodied on a computer readable storage medium the modules can include for example any or all of the components detailed herein. The method steps can then be carried out using the distinct software modules and or sub modules of the system as described above executing on a hardware processor . Further a computer program product can include a computer readable storage medium with code adapted to be implemented to carry out at least one method step described herein including the provision of the system with the distinct software modules.

In any case it should be understood that the components illustrated herein may be implemented in various forms of hardware software or combinations thereof for example application specific integrated circuit s ASICS functional circuitry an appropriately programmed general purpose digital computer with associated memory and the like. Given the teachings of the invention provided herein one of ordinary skill in the related art will be able to contemplate other implementations of the components of the invention.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of another feature integer step operation element component and or group thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed.

At least one aspect of the present invention may provide a beneficial effect such as for example enabling a customer to make a purchase at a Point of Sale terminal through his or her mobile device with the financial assistance of his or her social network members.

The descriptions of the various embodiments of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration but are not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the embodiments disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the described embodiments. The terminology used herein was chosen to best explain the principles of the embodiments the practical application or technical improvement over technologies found in the marketplace or to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the embodiments disclosed herein.

