---

title: Multicast group ingestion
abstract: A system and method for processing multicast streams is disclosed. A router receives the multicast streams and communicates the streams via communication tunnels to a set of ingestion pipelines. Each communication tunnel can be terminated upon the ingestion pipeline receiving a multicast stream. The set of ingestion pipelines process and deliver the multicast streams across existing IP infrastructure for real time distribution.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09054911&OS=09054911&RS=09054911
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09054911
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120416
---
This disclosure relates generally to multicast streaming and in particular to receiving and processing multicast streams through a router to ingestion pipelines for distribution in real time.

Live streaming current events over the Internet increases the demand for qualitative and reliable multicast streaming infrastructure. As the events can be viewed in real time minor glitches in the audio and or video feeds can become noticeable. Live streaming feeds are commonly used in such circumstances as major political speeches and events sporting events and other cultural happenings for example in which a viewing audience is relying on the live streaming feed to be functioning with excellence. Multicast streams such as these and others having video audio or other data are often not able to be reliably transported privately.

The following presents a simplified summary of various aspects of this disclosure in order to provide a basic understanding of such aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements nor delineate the scope of such aspects. Its purpose is to present some concepts of this disclosure in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Mission critical live streaming on the web is done today by building redundancy by having separate hardware and or software encoders pushing roughly equivalent streams to be redundantly encoded. This encoding takes place in separate encoding pathways that produce redundant streams. Failovers automatic switches to redundant pathways or streams attempt to minimize disruptions but since they use discrete and or diverse components glitch free failovers are generally difficult and not reliably executed from multicast streaming.

Systems and methods disclosed herein relate to transporting multicast traffic across a unicast network to a unicast endpoint even though the underlying network does not support multicast protocols and enabling load sharing of traffic. This is accomplished by leveraging the pre existing load balancing capabilities of a set of load balancer components in conjunction with routers that open communication tunnels to particular ingestion endpoints. The load balancer components are configured with multicast support and the communication tunnels have shared Anycast destination points. For example the load balancer components support multiple overlapping address spaces.

In one example of an embodiment a system comprises a memory that stores computer executable components. A processor executes the computer executable components stored in the memory. A set of ingestion pipelines process and deliver multicast streams for real time distribution. A router receives multicast streams and generates communication tunnels to the set of ingestion pipelines in which each tunnel can carry one or more streams. The communication tunnels can be unicast Generic Routing Encapsulation tunnels which can be encrypted for example.

An advertising component communicates membership reports to the router in which the membership reports indicate a status of a set of load balancer components for the set of routers to transmit the multicast streams to via a set of first communication tunnels. A set of ingestion agents receive the multicast streams from the set of load balancer components via a set of Generic Routing Encapsulation tunnels based on a forwarding table and aggregate the multicast streams received into stream segments to distribute for real time distribution.

Another example of an embodiment includes a system comprising a set of routers that receive multicast streams in response to communicating an initial request and a set of advertising components that communicates membership reports to the set of routers. The set of routers transmit via a set of first communication tunnels the multicast streams to a set of load balancer components based on the membership reports indicating a status of the set of load balancer components. A set of ingestion agents receive the multicast streams from the set of load balancer components via a set of second communication tunnels based on a forwarding table and aggregate the multicast streams received into stream segments.

In one embodiment a connection with communication tunnels in a virtual router is provided by the system to one or more external entities or media sources. This enables both a unicast source IP address and a multicast group address in use by one partner to not collide with use by another partner. In the event that multiple external entities or media sources stream different content e.g. multicast content to the same multicast group the back end infrastructure can choose which traffic is desired by crafting a join for a given multicast group and encapsulates the traffic in a tunnel packet which is then associated with only the virtual instance of the external entity whose traffic the back end desires.

Also disclosed herein is a method including using a processor to execute computer executable instructions stored in a memory to perform acts. The acts comprise receiving multicast streams at a set of routers and communicating via a set of advertising components membership reports to the set of routers the membership reports indicating a status of a set of load balancer components for processing the multicast streams. The method includes receiving the multicast streams at the set of load balancer components via a set of first communication tunnels which are established between the set of routers and the set of load balancer components based on the membership reports received by the set of routers.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of this disclosure. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of this disclosure may be employed. This disclosure is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and distinctive features of this disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description of this disclosure when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

Various aspects of this disclosure are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It should be understood however that certain aspects of this disclosure may be practiced without these specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form to facilitate describing one or more aspects.

It is to be appreciated that in accordance with one or more implementations described in this disclosure users can opt out of providing personal information demographic information location information proprietary information sensitive information or the like in connection with data gathering aspects. Moreover one or more implementations described herein can provide for anonymizing collected received or transmitted data.

It is to be appreciated that in accordance with one or more implementations described in this disclosure live streaming input streams such as multicast User Datagram Protocol UDP streams can be coherently processed in parallel ingestion pipelines. If errors occur during the ingestion and or processing of the input stream the live streaming and ingestion infrastructure can switch between the parallel input streams to provide reliable live streaming feeds to a content distribution network storage and or destination address for example.

Internet Protocol IP multicast is a technique for one to many communication over an IP infrastructure in a network. IP multicast scales to a larger receiver population by not requiring prior knowledge of whom or how many receivers exist. Multicast uses network infrastructure efficiently by requiring the source to send a packet only once even if it needs to be delivered to a large number of receivers. One transport layer protocol to use multicast addressing is User Datagram Protocol UDP . However UDP is not reliable messages are not inherently acknowledged and may be lost or delivered out of order. Further UDP packets do not guarantee delivery of packets or defend against unauthorized interception. Furthermore the large state requirements in routers make applications using a large number of network trees unworkable using IP multicast. Take presence information as an example where each router keeps at least one tree of its subscribers if not several. Few if any mechanisms have demonstrated what would allow the IP multicast model to scale to millions of senders and millions of multicast groups and thus make fully general multicast applications practical

As disclosed herein methods and systems enable moving and delivering multicast UDP packet streams across existing IP networks without requiring that the intervening IP network components support the IP Multicast protocol suite. The system is robust against the failure of network components and provides a framework for correcting packet loss and defending against unauthorized interception.

For example various routers receive a multiplicity of live multicast streams that are for example IP multicast UDP streams enclosing MPEG 2 Transport Stream M2TS . Based on membership reports of ingestion pipelines the routers transport the multicast streams to the ingestion pipelines for processing and distribution for user subscriber viewing. For example a router receives multicast streams and communicatively connects via communication tunnels to a set of ingestion pipelines in which multiple tunnels can deliver via the same pipeline to spread traffic across available links and reduce displacements in response to failed links.

The ingestion pipelines include a set of load balancer components that process and distribute the multicast streams through the ingestion pipeline. The membership reports received by the routers include a status of the load balancer components and can comprise Internet Group Management Protocol IGMP multicast group membership reports. For example the load balancer components if healthy or good status can send IGMP membership reports to the routers corresponding to the multicast streams that the load balancer components select to receive. The routers respond to the membership reports messages by sending the corresponding multicast stream via a preconfigured tunnel. The communication tunnel from the router which carries one or more multicast streams terminates at the load balancer components.

An advertising component communicates the membership reports to the routers. A set of ingestion agents of the ingestion pipelines further receive the multicast streams from the set of load balancer components in a second communication tunnel via a set of Generic Routing Encapsulation tunnels based on a forwarding table. The ingestion agents further operate to aggregate the multicast streams received into stream segments for further real time distribution for example.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates a block diagram of an example of a multicast stream ingestion system in accordance with various aspects and implementations is shown. Live streaming infrastructure of the system can be provided to ingest and or process live media feeds and distribute them to media players media storage content distribution networks and the like for example.

The system can include ingestion infrastructure origin infrastructure a content distribution network and a stream event controller operable as an application programming interface API . Ingestion infrastructure can receive incoming media feeds such as multicast IP streams and redundantly process multicast streams in separate pipelines. Origin infrastructure can save the live media streams to memory and prepare the live streams for delivery to the content distribution network which can deliver live media streams to media players a storage a distribution network or other destinations. The stream control for example can give broadcasting partners the ability to start and or stop an event configure monetization settings and in general manage the set of stream processing events and their lifecycle.

The ingestion system includes parallel ingestion pipelines and . In the ingestion infrastructure media streams are received at ingestion entry points such as routers and that reside at the edge of the network. The media streams can include for example video streams financial data streams audio streams and the like which are comprised of a multicast UDP stream format. Once received the media streams are ingested and processed by the parallel pipelines and . The streams can then be eventually saved to a memory in the origin infrastructure for example before being distributed via a content distribution network .

The ingestion entry points or routers and can receive multicast signals acquired through a network of ingestion servers. The ingestion entry points or routers and can also receive the live media streams from other sources commonly used for delivering multicast streams having live media feeds for example. Once redundant live multicast streams are received at the routers and parallel ingestion pipelines and can ingest and process the multicast streams in parallel. It is to be appreciated that while depicts pipelines and processing live streams from the network edge router and pipelines and are processing live streams from the network edge router there can be any combination of pipelines and entry points. In some embodiments there can be fewer or greater than two parallel pipelines per entry point and in other embodiments there can be more or less than two entry points.

Ingestion pipelines and can process and prepare the live streams for delivery in which for example can be to the content distribution network but can be to any destination network. Processing modules such as load balancer components advertising components and ingestion agents can be included in the ingestion pipelines and . These modules can operate in the pipelines to transport multicast traffic across a unicast network such as the system to a unicast end point which does not cause massive fan out for a one to many communication but still enables the streams to be distributed for user subscriber viewing and or general viewing. The ingestion pipelines can also include packager and or encryption components to package the stream into a container format and or encrypt it.

The routers and operate to duplicate copies of redundant live media streams from an external entity or media source for example and operate to generate communication tunnels to load balancer components in pipelines and . For example each communication tunnel is a Generic Routing Encapsulation tunnel in which multiple tunnels can correspond to each load balancer to allow traffic to be evenly divided between the remaining load balancers upon failure. The load balancer component receives the media stream e.g. a video stream and terminates the communication tunnel thereafter. The routers and are configured to float the end points of the communication tunnel generated. As a result the load balancer components are operable to terminate the communication tunnels for example by shifting the end point of the communication tunnel back to the respective router or which has tunneled communication thereto.

In embodiments herein multiple edge routers are peered together with any number of outside partner networks to request and receive multicast UDP streams in which the outside partners are casting sources for the multicast UDP streams. The arrangement of parallel ingestion pipelines scales robustness of the system at all layers from ingestion of the source material to encoding storage conversion into on demand assets publishing and streaming for work load sharing.

Because multicast IP streams have inherent problems with routing to particular addresses the routers and generate particular tunnels to each pipeline and to be forwarded by a set of load balancer components that terminate and share the address with one or more advertising components that advertise to the routers on behalf of the load balancing components. The pipelines and replicate and forward the multicast UDP streams in UDP packets which can carry M2TS video data for example for user viewing in a unicast transmission of a unicast pipeline.

Referring now to illustrated is system that operates to process multicast groups of multicast streams into various ingestion pipeline entry points that is robust against failure of network components. Routers and operate as edge routers that receive an external multicast UDP stream in which the multicast stream can be video streaming audio streaming financial streaming and the like media data streams which are not limited to any one particular example described herein for ease of description. The routers and can include multiple routers or be limited to only one as intended by the term a set in which a set can be considered one or more.

The routers and for example operate with a loopback path that operates for multiple loop balancing tunnels. The routers and peer with any number of external multicasting sources and can request multicast UDP streams such as multicast UDP video streams. The routers and can receive IGMP packets from an advertising component not shown on a Generic Routing Encapsulation GRE tunnel. The GRE tunnels can be shared with corresponding sets of load balancing components and can be encrypted e.g. Internet Protocol Security IPSEC to defend the multicast UDP packet streams against unauthorized interceptions. The routers and can forward requests for multicast streams using an initial request format such as Protocol Independent Multicast PIM which is a protocol format used by the routers and to span intermediate hops between the multicast stream source and a destination e.g. a user viewing device storage distribution network etc. . The routers and additionally forward multicast UDP media data packets from the external source to a set of load balancer components via a set of first communication tunnels and generated by the routers such as GRE tunnels or other like tunneling protocols.

Each ingestion pipeline and includes the set of load balancer components a set of ingestion agents and a storage component . The ingestion pipelines and transports multicast streams across a unicast network to a unicast endpoint which does not cause massive fan out and enables load sharing of traffic. This is accomplished by leveraging the load balancing capabilities of the load balancing components adding multicast support and building tunnels that have a shared Anycast destination.

For example the set of load balancer components are configured to receive the multicast UDP streams via each GRE tunnel configured by the routers and and an Anycast Virtual Internet Protocol VIP address. The routers and receive IGMP multicast group membership reports that have a status corresponding to each of the load balancer components . Based on the reports the routers and open the communication tunnels with floating end points to the respective load balancer components and communicate multicast UDP streams to the load balancer components having an available good or functional status. Each status indicator for the load balancer components indicates whether the load balancer component is operable to receive and process multicast streams. In addition the edge routers and are configured to assign an Anycast VIP for each channel so that each communication tunnel that is generated from the router and a load balancer component has a different Anycast VIP address.

The load balancer components are operable to terminate the communication tunnels and or . For example by shifting the end point of the communication tunnel back to the respective router which has tunneled the communication the load balancer component can terminate the communication tunnel generated for the particular load balancer component. Each pipeline and includes the set of load balancer components that operate to distribute workload throughout the pipeline. For example the load balancer components are configured to poll other components and populate a forwarding table that indicates capabilities of the polled components within the ingestion pipeline and forward workload e.g. multicast UDP packets for processing through the system. The load balancer components can forward the multicast UDP packet streams based on the forwarding table generated.

A set of second communication tunnels are opened between the set of load balancer components and a set of ingestion agents. These communication tunnels can also comprise GRE tunnels that can transport the load balanced multicast UDP streams e.g. live video streams and encapsulate the packets of the streams in an encrypted transport protocol e.g. IPSEC . The set of communication tunnels can also be unicast channels with a floating end point similar to the set of first communication channels described above.

The load balancer components transport workload e.g. multicast UDP live video streams according to a forwarding table that is populated based on polling operations performed at the load balancer components . The load balancer components deliver multicast streams in response to polling responses to ingestion agents for example. Using multiple load balancer components with load balancing instead of a single component can increase reliability through redundancy.

To poll the set of ingestion agents the set of load balancer components of each ingestion pipeline receives requests and or status reports having status indications of the set of ingestion agents . The status reports can be received based on a poll signal communicated by the set of load balancer components . The polling communication can comprise a Remote Procedure Call RPC communication for example that is an inter process communication that enables a subroutine or procedure to be executed in another address space at respective ingestion agents . The set of load balancer components polls the ingestion agents with a polling interval for response from the ingestion agents . The polling interval for example is one second which can be variable and not fixed. The polling communication initiates the ingestion agents to respond with an amount and which multicast groups of multicast UDP streams that the ingestion agents desire or are capable of handling. The intelligence of this protocol is controlled by a stream event manager component and a controller which is further discussed infra. In addition or alternatively the ingestion agents are operable to request workload capacity without polling and upon availability capability and or any event trigger other than polling initiated communication.

In one embodiment a connection with communication tunnels in a virtual router is provided by the system to one or more external entities or media sources. This enables both a unicast source IP address and a multicast group address in use by one partner to not collide with use by another partner. In the event that multiple external entities or media sources stream different content e.g. multicast content to the same multicast group the back end infrastructure can choose which traffic is desired by crafting a join for a given multicast group and encapsulates the traffic in a tunnel packet which is then associated with only the virtual instance of the external entity whose traffic the back end desires. Thus the ingestion pipelines with the communication tunnels can enable both a unicast source IP address and a multicast group address and encapsulates communication tunnel packets differently according to the multiple different multicast group address domains.

Each load balancer component is configured to receive the responses or requests from the ingestion agents. Upon receiving the responses each load balancer component populates a forwarding list that maintains statistics related to the set of ingestion agents for workload distribution via the set of second GRE communication tunnels . Based on the forwarding tables the set of load balancer components forward multicast packets to the set of ingestion agents . The responses or requests from the ingestion agents for example include a list of multicast groups in which each of the ingestions agents can receive. Multiple load balancer components can receive the lists but only a certain number e.g. one at a time will deliver the workload traffic e.g. multicast packet stream to a given ingestion agent . The particular load balancer s that respond to the requests responses can change depending upon communication and coordination among the set of load balancers for a particular ingestion pipeline. Therefore in response to one or more load balancers failing redundancy is built into the system so that other load balancers of the set of load balancers assume the duties and workload of the failed load balancer. Processing can thus be distributed among the load balancer components .

The set of ingestion agents of each ingestion pipeline operate to associate or assign a stream identifier ID to the multicast group packets received from a load balancer component . For example an ingestion agent receives multicast packets and uses a destination multicast group IP address to associate the stream with a stream ID. Each ingestion agent further aggregates the multicast UDP packets into chunks and forward the stream data e.g. media streams and metadata to a user player component storage and or a live real time distribution infrastructure or origin infrastructure. The storage for example can include ingestion agent queues and or chunk buffers that store chunks or stream segments from the agent queues therein.

Referring to illustrated is a further example of a system that routes multicast media streams from a multicasting source through unicast channels for distribution in real time. The system includes a router that receives multicast UDP streams e.g. video streams and other data and communicates them to different ingestion pipelines and for example to be processed and forwarded for distribution.

The ingestion pipelines and of the system respectively include a set of load balancer components and a set of ingestion agents . The load balancer components and the ingestion agents are communicatively connected via communication pathway tunnels . The ingestion pipelines and include advertising components operably connected to the set of load balancer components .

The router communicatively connects with the advertising components and the load balancer components in order to receive media streams e.g. multicast UDP streams from an external source duplicating media streams for distribution. For example a live real time video recording can be broadcasted received by the system and distributed via unicast channels with Anycast VIPs to implement the communication tunnels between the edge routers and the load balancers. If one load balancer component fails then traffic can be redirected to any other load balancer serving the same Anycast IP destination address.

The router for example receives membership reports from the set of advertising components which communicate and advertise on behalf of the set of load balancer components . The membership reports for example comprise IGMP requests or IGMP multicast group membership reports. Each group includes multicast streams for load balancer components that are capable of distributing the media streams. The router receives the advertisements and initiates a request for the media streams. The requesting communications from the router can include IGMP communication requests or other type communications such as Protocol Independent Multicast PIM communications.

Upon receiving media streams the router opens a set of first communication tunnels e.g. GRE or other communication tunnels with the set of load balancers based on the membership reports received by the advertising components . The advertising components are associated with the set of load balancer agents on a one to one ratio and or other ratios depending on workload resources or other factors. For example an advertising component can correspond to a particular load balancer component and share the same communication tunnel destination address. The tunnel is shared among the load balancer component and the advertising component . Other ratios of load balancer components to advertising components are also envisioned.

The advertising components are each associated with a set of load balancer components and are configured to read information records describing the multicast groups to be requested from the router e.g. an edge router . The advertising component sends for example IGMP packets to the router in a GRE communication tunnel to request the multicast group streams. The advertising component negotiates or advertises with one or more routers e.g. edge router to ensure that multicast packets are sent from the router in a GRE tunnel on an Anycast VIP and arrive at the corresponding load balancer component . In the case where a particular load balancer component fails or is incapable of accepting workload the status is detected by the advertising component that corresponds to the failed load balancer component and the workload gets redistributed to other load balancer components . In the case where an advertising component fails or is incapable of reporting other advertising components recognize the failed status and taking on the membership reports of the failed advertising component. Thus the system is redundant and robust for each component associated with the ingestion pipelines and to the router residing at the edge of the system.

Referring now to illustrated is a system that connects multicast media streams to ingestion pipelines having unicast communication tunnels for processing the media streams. The system includes one or more controllers and stream event managers that facilitate communications among different components of ingestion pipelines of the system.

The controller communicates with the set of ingestion agents using commands such as Remote Procedure Call commands. The controller is able to start and stop a stream and add or delete a stream. Each stream has reports generated from the set of ingestion agents to a stream event manager . The reports can include a current state events occurring or occurred e.g. failure events or processed events and or statistics related to the stream. The statistics for example can include a creation time a last packet or chunk time total bytes a total multicast UDP packets or average size total number of chunks MPEG transport stream counter to detect end to end losses a storage bytes chunks and files written a write error count and storage latency statistics and the like for example. Each ingestion agent reports the multicast stream state to the stream controller via the stream event manager with the current state events and statistics accumulated. Statistics are thus kept for example for each M2TS stream and delivered with chunks of stream data outputted by the ingestion agents .

Referring now to illustrated is an example configuration of packet flow for an ingestion pipeline for processing multicast streams. An edge router is configured to support multicast groups of multicast streams. The edge router transports the multicast groups e.g. sixty multicast streams more or less and associates the streams with an Anycast Virtual IP address for each stream according to the member reports . A set of advertising components operate with a set of load balancer components by advertising requests for the load balancer components to the edge router with the member reports . For example IGMP multicast group membership reports are communicated from the advertising components to the edge router to facilitate transmission of the multicast streams to the load balancer components. The edge router forwards the multicast packets to the set of load balancer components via a GRE communication tunnel or other like tunneling protocol in which the GRE tunnel communication can be encrypted. The tunnel is terminated by each load balancer component upon receiving the multicast streams addressed to it.

The load balancer components poll the ingestion agents with RPC ingester requests communications. In response to the polling the ingestion agents communicate statistic data events and current data including multicast group IP addresses stream IDs and other accumulated data. Each ingestion agent forwards a stream ID to a multicast group and this data can be provided to the load balancer components in order for the load balancer components to map the multicast streams to particular ingestion agents . After populating a forwarding table the load balancer components forward the multicast groups to respective ingestion agents with a second set of GRE communication tunnels or other type tunnel which can also communicate encrypted stream data.

Referring to illustrated is a system having ingestion pipelines for receiving multicast streams e.g. multicast video streams or the like multicast streams and communicating the multicast streams via unicast channels of a redundant parallel infrastructure.

System can include part of ingestion infrastructure with an encryption component and a segmentation component . Parallel ingestion pipelines with live media streams are shown at different stages of processing at and . It is to be appreciated that while illustrates one segmentation component and one encryption component in the ingestion infrastructure this is done for simplicity and each of the parallel ingestion pipelines can include segmentation components and master selection components.

Encryption component can encrypt multicast streams within the communication channels or tunnels discussed above such as the set of first communication tunnels and for example. The communication tunnels include GRE tunnels or other like tunnels that can be encrypted with IPSEC encryption for securing Internet Protocol IP communications by authenticating and encrypting each IP packet of a communication session or encryptions for internet networking tunnels.

Segmentation component can identify segment boundaries in an ingested input stream and then segment the input stream based on segment boundaries that can be identified within the ingestion agents discussed herein. The segmentation component can segment each of the parallel ingested input streams in each of the pipelines as well or alternatively separate segmentation components can segment the separate input streams.

Moreover various acts have been described in detail above in connection with respective system diagrams. It is to be appreciated that the detailed description of such acts in can be and are intended to be implementable as methods and or in accordance with the following depicted method.

At multicast streams are received at a set of routers which can reside at the edge of a multicast streaming network. At a set of advertising components communicate membership reports to the set of routers indicating a status of load balancer components for processing the multicast streams. At the multicast streams are received at the set of load balancer components via a set of first communication tunnels established between the set of routers and the set of load balancer components in which data flows through the tunnels in response to IGMP membership reports received by the router.

At multicast streams e.g. multicast UDP streams of video are received at a set of routers. At the multicast streams are processed in ingestion pipelines in which communication of the streams through the pipelines can be directed through unicast communication channels such as GRE tunnels or the like. An ingested input stream can be redundantly processed in separate ingestion pipelines. The ingested input stream can be mirrored between the separate ingestion pipelines. The separate ingested input streams can also be processed in parallel pipelines such that several levels of redundancy ensure that disruptions to one or more of the pipelines can be mitigated.

At the multicast streams are communicated to a set of load balancer components. For example the routers can open communication channels e.g. GRE communication tunnels to the load balancer components with separate Anycast VIP addresses. The routers can communicate multicast groups of streams based on membership reports received with status information of available load balancer components. Redundancy of the ingestion pipelines and of the load balancer components enables the redirection of the communications based on the status or membership reports.

At the multicast streams are mapped to ingestion agents. The set of load balancer components can channel communication to an ingestion agent based on a forwarding table having status information of the ingestion agents. Based on the forwarding table the load balancer components communicate and can redirect the multicast streams via a set of second communication tunnels e.g. GRE tunnels .

At the ingestion agents aggregate the multicast streams into chunks and direct the chunks to a storage or to a distribution point which can be a distribution content network a user device etc.

With reference to a suitable environment for implementing various aspects of this disclosure includes a computing device . It is to be appreciated that the computer can be used in connection with implementing one or more of the systems or component shown and described in connection with . The computing device includes a processing unit s a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit s can be any of various available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as the processing unit s .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including the memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Card Bus Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA Firewire IEEE 994 and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

The system memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . The basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computing device such as during start up is stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory e.g. can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or nonvolatile random access memory RAM e.g. ferroelectric RAM FeRAM . Volatile memory e.g. includes random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as static RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM direct Rambus RAM DRRAM direct Rambus dynamic RAM DRDRAM and Rambus dynamic RAM. Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to include without being limited to including these and any other suitable types of memory.

Computing device can also include removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. illustrates for example a disk storage . Disk storage includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic disk drive flash drive floppy disk drive tape drive Jaz drive Zip drive LS 100 drive flash memory card or memory stick. The disk storage also can include storage media separately or in combination with other storage media including but not limited to an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device CD ROM CD recordable drive CD R Drive CD rewritable drive CD RW Drive or a digital versatile disk ROM drive DVD ROM . To facilitate connection of the disk storage devices to the system bus a removable or non removable interface is typically used such as interface .

A user enters commands or information into the computing device through input device s and or remotely over a communications network. Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to the processing unit through the system bus via interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s . Thus for example a USB port may be used to provide input to computing device and to output information from computing device to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices like monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which require special adapters. The output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide a means of connection between the output device and the system bus . It should be noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computing device can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computing device . For purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computing device through a network interface and then physically connected via communication connection . Network interface encompasses wire and or wireless communication networks such as local area networks LAN wide area networks WAN cellular networks etc. LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet Token Ring and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refers to the hardware software employed to connect the network interface to the bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computing device it can also be external to computing device . The hardware software necessary for connection to the network interface includes for exemplary purposes only internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters Ethernet cards and wireless networking cards.

In accordance with various aspects and implementations the computing device can be used to identify unauthorized uploaded content that is received before a live reference stream is ingested. Computing device can also issue copyright infringement claims against the user uploaded content in response to determining the user uploaded content is unauthorized. As more fully disclosed herein in some implementations the computing device can include one or more processors e.g. that can be used to process data including processing data to perform various tasks e.g. indexing uploaded content matching validated live reference streams against the indexed uploaded content identifying unauthorized uploaded content issuing claims against the uploaded content performing utility based analyses etc. . The computing device can include a program component that can be associated with e.g. communicatively connected to the one or more processors. The program component can contain for example a indexing component a matching component a purging component and a claim component and or other components which can respectively function as more fully disclosed herein to facilitate identifying matches between user uploaded media content and validated content and issuing copyright claims against the user uploaded media content when the user uploaded media content is uploaded first.

The system includes a communication framework that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s . The client s are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s . Similarly the server s are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

It is to be appreciated and understood that components as described with regard to a particular system or method can include the same or similar functionality as respective components e.g. respectively named components or similarly named components as described with regard to other systems or methods disclosed herein.

It is to be noted that aspects or features of this disclosure can be used with substantially any wireless telecommunication or radio technology e.g. Wi Fi Bluetooth Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX Enhanced General Packet Radio Service Enhanced GPRS Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Third Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB 3GPP Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS High Speed Packet Access HSPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA GSM Global System for Mobile Communications EDGE Enhanced Data Rates for GSM Evolution Radio Access Network GERAN UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN LTE Advanced LTE A etc. Additionally some or all of the aspects described herein can be used with legacy telecommunication technologies e.g. GSM. In addition mobile as well non mobile networks e.g. the Internet data service network such as internet protocol television IPTV etc. can be used with aspects or features described herein.

While the subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a computer program that runs on a computer and or computers those skilled in the art will recognize that this disclosure also can or may be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods may be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems mini computing devices mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices e.g. PDA phone microprocessor based or programmable consumer or industrial electronics and the like. The illustrated aspects may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. However some if not all aspects of this disclosure can be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

As used in this application the terms component system platform interface and the like can refer to and or can include a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational machine with one or more specific functionalities. The entities disclosed herein can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

In another example respective components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or firmware application executed by a processor. In such a case the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and can execute at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts wherein the electronic components can include a processor or other means to execute software or firmware that confers at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. In an aspect a component can emulate an electronic component via a virtual machine e.g. within a cloud computing system.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Moreover articles a and an as used in the subject specification and annexed drawings should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

As used herein the terms example and or exemplary are utilized to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. For the avoidance of doubt the subject matter disclosed herein is not limited by such examples. In addition any aspect or design described herein as an example and or exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs nor is it meant to preclude equivalent exemplary structures and techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

Reference throughout this specification to one implementation or an implementation or one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the implementation or embodiment is included in at least one implementation or one embodiment. Thus the appearances of the phrase in one implementation or in an implementation or in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification can but are not necessarily referring to the same implementation or embodiment depending on the circumstances. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more implementations or embodiments.

Various aspects or features described herein can be implemented as a method apparatus system or article of manufacture using standard programming or engineering techniques. In addition various aspects or features disclosed in this disclosure can be realized through program modules that implement at least one or more of the methods disclosed herein the program modules being stored in a memory and executed by at least a processor. Other combinations of hardware and software or hardware and firmware can enable or implement aspects described herein including a disclosed method s . The term article of manufacture as used herein can encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or storage media. For example computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical discs e.g. compact disc CD digital versatile disc DVD blu ray disc BD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . or the like.

As it is employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Further processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In this disclosure terms such as store storage data store data storage database and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component are utilized to refer to memory components entities embodied in a memory or components comprising a memory. It is to be appreciated that memory and or memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

What has been described above includes examples of systems and methods of this disclosure. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methods for purposes of describing this disclosure but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of this disclosure are possible. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has possesses and the like are used in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

