---

title: Closed-loop waste disposal system for enhanced safety
abstract: A system and method to safely dispose of hazardous liquid waste includes a glove box for conducting a test with a hazardous liquid material therein, the glove box having a drainage line connected to a waste tank for directing the hazardous liquid waste from the glove box to the waste tank. A waste disposal line and an air vent line are connected between the waste tank and a waste container. Double-valved connectors are positioned in the waste disposal line and in the air vent line allowing the liquid waste and air to flow between the waste tank and a waste container when the double-valved connectors are coupled together. When the double-valved connectors are uncoupled, both the waste tank and the waste container are completely sealed to the surrounding environment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08337776&OS=08337776&RS=08337776
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08337776
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120410
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

The present invention relates generally to a waste disposal system for enhanced safety. More specifically the present invention relates to a dosed loop waste disposal system wherein hazardous waste generally a liquid is contained at all times with no need for any open container while outside the engineering controls so there is a decreased risk of spillage and or off gassing of dangerous and hazardous materials.

Small environment isolation chambers or as they are more commonly called glove boxes are extensively used in research industry and medicine to facilitate the hand manipulation of an object of one sort or another within an isolated environment. To enable manipulation of the object within the chamber rubber gloves are normally provided projecting into the chamber enclosure with their sleeve ends sealed around an opening through a wall of such enclosure. The gloves provide in effect a continuation of the chamber enclosure wall and separate not only an operator s hands extended through the opening from the interior of the enclosure but also keep the ambient atmosphere and glove box air segregated. The chemicals handled within a glove box are often hazardous. This invention increases the operational safety of the glove box by reducing the potential for exposure during waste handling.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a system is provided to safely dispose of hazardous liquid waste. The system includes a glove box for conducting a test with a hazardous liquid material therein the glove box having a drainage line connected to a waste tank for directing the hazardous liquid waste from the glove box to the waste tank. A waste disposal line connects at one end to the waste tank and at the second end to a waste container. There is a double valved connector connected at one end to the waste disposal line and at the opposite end to the waste container the double valved connector including a coupling insert secured at one end to the waste container and having a first biased valve closing the opposite open end thereof the double valved connector having a coupling body secured at one end to the waste disposal line and having a second biased valve closing the opposite opened end thereof and the coupling insert being removably secured to the coupling body. When the coupling insert is secured to the coupling body the first and second biased valves are open so that liquid waste can flow from the waste tank to the waste container. When the coupling body is uncoupled from the coupling insert the first and second biased valves in the coupling insert and the coupling body are biased closed such that both the waste tank and the waste container are completely sealed to the surrounding environment.

According to another embodiment of the present invention a method is provided for safely disposing of hazardous liquid waste. The method includes conducting a test with a hazardous liquid material in a glove box and directing the hazardous liquid waste from the glove box to a waste tank through a drainage line. The method further includes connecting the waste tank to a waste container with a waste disposal line and then connecting the waste disposal line to the waste container with a double valved connector having a coupling insert connected at one end to the waste container and with a first biased valve closing an opposite end thereof and a coupling body with a second biased valve closing one end and connected at an opposite end of the waste disposal line. Then removably securing the coupling insert being to the coupling body whereby when the first and second biased valves are open liquid waste can flow from the waste tank to the waste container. Finally uncoupling the coupling body from the coupling insert whereby the first and second biased valves are biased closed so that both the waste tank and the waste container are completely sealed to the surrounding environment.

In the description that follows numerous details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that variations of these specific details are possible while still achieving the results of the present invention. Well known processing steps are generally not described in detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obfuscating the description of the present invention.

In the description that follows exemplary dimensions may be presented for an illustrative embodiment of the invention. The dimensions should not be interpreted as limiting. They are included to provide a sense of proportion. Generally speaking it is the relationship between various elements where they are located their contrasting compositions and sometimes their relative sizes that is of significance.

In the drawings accompanying the description that follows often both reference numerals and legends labels text descriptions will be used to identify elements. If legends are provided they are intended merely as an aid to the reader and should not in any way be interpreted as limiting.

The present invention is directed to a waste disposal system for enhanced safety hereafter disposal system as shown in . The disposal system is used as a closed loop system for hazardous waste disposal. One aspect of this system is that hazardous waste generally a liquid is contained at all times with no need for any open container while outside the engineering controls glove box fume hood etc. as described below . This closed loop system enhances safety so there is a decreased risk of spillage and or off gassing of dangerous and hazardous materials. Because the disposal system remains closed there is an increased level of safety to the operators.

Glove box includes a control panel an airlock with interlocked doors to introduce items into the glove box or remove items from the glove box . Airlock is attached to glove box . Attached to the air inlet valve is a biased closed pneumatic actuator which can be opened by applying compressed air. Opening the actuated valve allows room air to enter the glove box and out of an exhaust outlet where it is then directed to an external filtration system which exhausts the filtered air out. Pneumatic actuator only opens for incoming air. This prevents contaminated air from the glove box from leaving through the input valve to the open air. In the event of an alarm indicating insufficient pressure in the glove box the actuated valve automatically closes.

At the end of a chemical test there may be liquid present at the bottom interior surface of the glove box especially after a decontamination procedure. The bottom interior surface of the glove box is sloped towards a drain to facilitate cleanup. There is a drainage line which directs the hazardous liquid waste from the glove box to a waste tank . Waste tank is the permanent and primary hazardous waste storage unit. A typical waste tank used is 15 gallons and constructed of polypropylene. During normal operation of chemical tests waste tank stores the hazardous liquid waste produced in glove box . There is a lockable valve such as a drain ball valve between the glove box and the waste tank so that the liquid does not drain from the glove box to the waste tank until the user chooses to do so and unlocks the valve. There is also an air vent line between waste tank and the exhaust plenum to allow the trapped air from the waste tank and the waste container described below to exhaust out through the exhaust plenum of the glove box and ultimately through the exhaust outlet as described above . There is also a lockable valve such as a drain ball valve between the waste tank and the waste disposal line to be used in order to keep liquid waste from staying trapped in the waste disposal line prior to disconnecting the line from the waste container .

The waste disposal line has a double valved connector to the lid and the air vent line has a double valved connector to the lid as seen in . A detailed view of the two double valved connectors and is seen in . The double valve connectors may be constructed of any type of appropriate valve for example a ChemQuik liquid line coupling incorporating biased closed valves in each of the double valve connectors.

As shown in the double valved connector includes a liquid line coupling insert including a biased valve not shown closing the open end . The opposite end of the coupling insert is mounted to the removable lid . The double valved connector also includes a liquid line coupling body having a biased valve not shown closing the opened end . The opposite end has a threaded hollow extension onto which the flexible disposal line is secured with a threaded fitting . In operation when the liquid line coupling body having the disposal line attached thereto is coupled to the liquid line coupling the biased valves in the liquid line coupling insert and liquid line coupling body are both opened so that liquid waste can flow from the waste tank to the waste container . Further when the liquid line coupling body is uncoupled from the liquid line coupling the biased valves in the liquid line coupling insert and liquid line coupling body are both closed so that both the waste tank and the waste container is completely sealed to the surrounding environment.

Referring again to the double valved connector includes a coupling insert including a biased valve closing the open end . The opposite end of the coupling insert is mounted to the removable lid . The double valved connector also includes a vent line coupling body having a biased valve not shown closing the opened end . The opposite end has a threaded hollow extension onto which the flexible air line is secured with a threaded fitting . In operation when the vent line coupling body having the air vent line attached thereto is coupled to the coupling insert the biased valves in the coupling insert and coupling body arc both opened so that air can flow from the waste container to the waste tank . Further when the coupling body is uncoupled from the coupling body the biased valves in the coupling insert and coupling body are both closed so that both the waste tank and the waste container is completely sealed to the surrounding environment.

In sum when the double valved connectors and are uncoupled the lines and are closed and the waste tank is closed. The waste contents found in the waste container are likewise sealed from the atmosphere.

In use after the chemical tests have been completed the hazardous waste from the glove box is transferred first to the waste tank and then through waste disposal line to waste container . Meanwhile as the waste fills the waste container the displaced air from the waste container flows into the waste tank through air vent line and then through the air vent line to the exhaust plenum and then through the exhaust outlet .

The waste disposal line double valved connector and the vent line double valved connector allow the waste container to be removed from the glove box while automatically closing the valves keeping the disposal system in a closed loop. When the double valved connector and the vent line double valved connector are disconnected the waste container with the attached lid having the coupling insert and the coupling insert is placed under a fume hood or any other suitable engineering control not shown. A fume hood is a type of local ventilation device that is designed to limit exposure to hazardous or noxious fumes vapors or dusts. A fume hood is typically a large piece of equipment enclosing five sides of a work area the bottom of which is most commonly located at a standing work height. Once the waste container with the lid is within the fume hood the lid is removed and replaced for a regular lid. Then the lid with attached coupling insert and the coupling insert is attached to a fresh waste container and reconnected to the disposal system via the waste disposal line and the air vent line to rccomplete the system.

Although the invention has been shown and described with respect to a certain preferred embodiment or embodiments certain equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art upon the reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components assemblies devices etc. the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component i.e. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary embodiments of the invention. In addition while a particular feature of the invention may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several embodiments such feature may be combined with one or more features of the other embodiments as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application.

