---

title: Method, system, and medium for generating a mobile interface indicating traffic level for local merchants
abstract: Systems and methods to provide a prioritized shopping system are discussed. For example, a method can include receiving a list of target items, receiving busyness data for a plurality of local merchants, developing a prioritized shopping plan, and communicating the prioritized shopping plan to a mobile device. Each target item in the list of target items can represents a product or service that a user has indicated an interest in purchasing. The prioritized shopping plan is based at least in part on the busyness data and the list of target items. Busyness data provides an indication of traffic levels within at least a portion of the plurality of local merchants.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09117238&OS=09117238&RS=09117238
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 09117238
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121127
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61 625 836 titled Systems and Method for Prioritizing Local Shopping Options filed Apr. 18 2012. The entire content of the above application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This application relates generally to data processing within a network based system operating over a distributed network and more specifically to systems and methods to identify visualize and prioritize local shopping options for a shopper.

The ever increasing use of intelligent mobile devices such as the iPhone from Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. or in car navigation systems which include data connections and location determination capabilities is slowly changing the way people think about using information resource within a mobile environment. Intelligent mobile devices can provide users with nearly instant information that can be used to alter traditional activities such as shopping and payment processing to name just a few.

Location For the purposes of this specification and the associated claims the term location is used to refer to a geographic location such as a longitude latitude combination or a street address. The term location is also used within this specification in reference to a physical location associated with a retail outlet e.g. store .

Real time For the purposes of this specification and the associated claims the term real time is used to refer to calculations or operations performed on the fly as events occur or input is received by the operable system. However the use of the term real time is not intended to preclude operations that cause some latency between input and response so long as the latency is an unintended consequence induced by the performance characteristics of the machine.

Example systems and methods for providing and using a prioritized local shopping service are described. In some example embodiments the systems and methods for providing a prioritized local shopping service allow a user to use a location aware mobile device to determine how best to prioritize shopping stops within a mall or around town to optimize time and ability to complete planned purchases. In an example the prioritized local shopping service receives inputs from various sources to determine how busy different merchant locations are levels of inventory and optionally deals on desired items. The prioritized shopping service can use the input data to develop an optimized shopping plan and provide useful graphical displays regarding busyness and proposed route among other things. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of example embodiments. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. It will also be evident that a navigated shopping system is not limited to the examples provided and may include other scenarios not specifically discussed.

In an example a network based prioritized local shopping service can monitor various channels of information such as user check ins geo located tweets store sites security cameras and local inventory among other things. From the various inputs the network based prioritized shopping service can determine a store s busyness e.g. traffic level sales discounts and inventory. The determined information can be used to create a sorted prioritized list e.g. route for a user to follow to optimize shopping efficiency and effectiveness. The service can also provide useful visualization tools such as hotspot maps depicting the busyness at local retail outlets or within a mall. The network based prioritized shopping service can also use the aggregated and analyzed information to track trends for use in refining future shopping trips. For example the system can determine the best times to avoid food courts or certain retail locations due to foot traffic and sale patterns.

One of the many benefits provided by a network based prioritized local shopping service can include reducing the time spent waiting in lines and avoiding crowds. Additionally the network based prioritized local shopping service can assist a user in ensuring that they do not miss out a deal or low inventory item. In the end the network based prioritized local shopping service can assist a user in minimizing shopping time while still maximizing potential savings.

In accordance with an example embodiment a network based system can provide a platform to provide both a prioritized local shopping service and integrated payment capabilities. In certain examples the prioritized local shopping service and the payment service can be provided by separate systems. In some examples the user interacts with a network based system e.g. prioritized local shopping service and or payment service via a mobile device such as a smartphone a tablet computing device or an in vehicle intelligent navigation system among others. In an example the network based system can include a publication module capable of delivering location based offers to a user based on stored user profile data local merchant campaigns and current or future location data. In certain examples using the prioritized local shopping service can include configuring automatic payments via an integrated or partner payment processing system such as the PayPal payment system from eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. .

For example the connection may be Code Division Multiple Access CDMA connection a Global System for Mobile communications GSM connection or other type of cellular connection. Such connection may implement any of a variety of types of data transfer technology such as Single Carrier Radio Transmission Technology 1xRTT Evolution Data Optimized EVDO technology General Packet Radio Service GPRS technology Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE technology or other data transfer technology e.g. fourth generation wireless 4G networks . When such technology is employed the communication network may include a cellular network that has a plurality of cell sites of overlapping geographic coverage interconnected by cellular telephone exchanges. These cellular telephone exchanges may be coupled to a network backbone for example the public switched telephone network PSTN a packet switched data network or to other types of networks .

In another example the connection may be Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi IEEE 802.11x type connection a Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX connection or another type of wireless data connection. In such an embodiment the communication network may include one or more wireless access points coupled to a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet or other packet switched data network.

In yet another example the connection may be a wired connection for example an Ethernet link and the communication network may be a LAN a WAN the Internet or other packet switched data network. Accordingly a variety of different configurations are expressly contemplated.

A plurality of servers may be coupled via interfaces to the communication network for example via wired or wireless interfaces. These servers may be configured to provide various types of services to the mobile device . For example one or more servers may execute location based service LBS applications which interoperate with software executing on the mobile device to provide LBSs to a user. LBSs can use knowledge of the device s location and or the location of other devices to provide location specific information recommendations notifications interactive capabilities and or other functionality to a user. For example an LBS application can provide location data to a network based shopping system which can then be used to assist in generating offers relevant to the user s current location and enable payment via the network based payment system . Knowledge of the device s location and or the location of other devices may be obtained through interoperation of the mobile device with a location determination application executing on one or more of the servers . Location information may also be provided by the mobile device without use of a location determination application such as application . In certain examples the mobile device may have some limited location determination capabilities that are augmented by the location determination application . In some examples the servers can also include publication application for providing location aware offers that may be triggered by user profile data or other information stored within the network based shopping service . In certain examples location data can be provided to the publication application by the location determination application . In some examples the location data provided by the location determination application can include merchant information e.g. identification of a retail location . In certain examples the location determination application can receive signals via the network to further identify a location. For example a merchant may broadcast a specific IEEE 802.11 service set identifier SSID that can be interpreted by the location determination application to identify a particular retail location. In another example the merchant may broadcast an identification signal via radio frequency identification RFID near field communication NFC or a similar protocol that can be used by the location determination application .

An Application Programming Interface API server and a web server are coupled to and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to one or more application servers . The application servers host one or more publication modules in certain examples these can also include commerce modules advertising modules and marketplace modules to name a few payment modules and shopping modules . The application servers are in turn shown to be coupled to one or more database servers that facilitate access to one or more databases . In some examples the application server can access the databases directly without the need for a database server .

The publication modules may provide a number of publication functions and services to users that access the networked system . The payment modules may likewise provide a number of payment services and functions to users. The payment modules may allow users to accumulate value e.g. in a commercial currency such as the U.S. dollar or a proprietary currency such as points in accounts and then later to redeem the accumulated value for products e.g. goods or services that are advertised or made available via the various publication modules within retail locations or within external online retail venues. The payment modules may also be configured to present or facilitate a redemption of offers generated by the shopping modules to a user during checkout or prior to checkout while the user is still actively shopping . The payment modules can also be configured to enable payment processing within the navigated shopping service. The shopping modules may provide real time prioritized local shopping route updates listing physical retail outlets that have items on a shopping list uploaded by a user of the networked system . The shopping modules can be configured to use all of the various communication mechanisms provided by the networked system to transmit information to a client machine such as client machine . The shopping modules can also present special offers available from retail merchants such as merchant to augment the prioritized shopping plan. The offers can be personalized based on current location time of day user profile data past purchase history or recent physical or online behaviors recorded by the network based system among other things. While the publication modules payment modules and shopping modules are shown in to all form part of the networked system it will be appreciated that in alternative embodiments the payment modules may form part of a payment service that is separate and distinct from the networked system such as the network based payment service . Additionally in some examples the shopping modules may be part of the payment service or may form an offer generation service separate and distinct from the networked system . In certain examples the network based shopping system can include some or all of the application severs .

Further while the system shown in employs a client server architecture the present invention is of course not limited to such an architecture and could equally well find application in a distributed or peer to peer architecture system for example. The various publication modules payment modules and shopping modules could also be implemented as standalone systems or software programs which do not necessarily have networking capabilities.

The web client accesses the various publication modules payment modules and shopping modules via the web interface supported by the web server . Similarly the programmatic client accesses the various services and functions provided by the publication modules payment modules and shopping modules via the programmatic interface provided by the API server . The programmatic client may for example be a smartphone application e.g. the PAYPAL payment application developed by eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. with integrated navigation capabilities to enable users to shop for items via a mobile device such as mobile device and submit payment for purchased items directly from the mobile device.

The routing module can use information obtained from a user the location module and the merchant module to create a shopping route that allows a user to optimize efficiency in purchasing items of interest. The routing module can process merchant location information inventory information use location information and busyness e.g. shopping traffic information to develop optimized shopping routes or plans.

The user profile module can manage user preferences shopping lists and recent destinations among other things. In an example the user profile module can communicate with database and well as directly with a client machine such as client machine .

The merchant module can manage communications with merchants registered to offer goods or services such as merchant via the networked system . The merchant module can maintain location data and real time inventory for participating merchants. The merchant module can also maintain busyness data for participating merchants the busyness data can represent the level of traffic within a physical location during a certain time period. The merchant module can also maintain historical trends in traffic busyness within a physical location.

The location module can monitor real time location information on clients such as by monitoring or receiving location information regarding client machines such as client machine . The location module can communicate real time location information to the routing module and the mapping engine as necessary.

The mapping engine can work with the routing module location module user profile module and merchant module to map locations associated with the user desired route as well as merchant retail locations selling desired items. In certain examples the mapping engine can access mall layout maps merchant location maps and street maps among others to optimize shopping

Additional details regarding the functionality provided by the shopping modules are detailed below in reference to and .

At the method can begin with the user profile module receiving a list of items for purchase e.g. a wish list . In an example the user profile module can access online wish lists maintained by a user within various shopping sites. The user profile module can also interact with a mobile application to obtain a list of shopping items a user desires to purchase. In some examples a user can maintain shopping lists within a mobile or desktop application that can be accessed upon request or activation of the prioritized shopping service.

At the method can continue with the merchant module receiving or accessing busyness data. The busyness data can be associated with merchants included in the shopping list or busyness data can be obtained for all merchants within a certain distance of the user or along a planned route of travel . As illustrated in busyness data can include check in data e.g. FOURSQUARE tweets status updates e.g. FACEBOOK security camera feeds cell usage data from cellular phone providers traffic camera feeds point of sale POS data from local merchants and sensor grids among other things. Busyness data can include any information that provides some direct or indirect indication of how busy a certain location is at a particular time. In an example the prioritized shopping service can enable crowd sourcing of busyness data to receive updates directly from users of the service. In this example a mobile application can be provided to users that allows for streamlined reporting of traffic levels at merchants. The mobile application or the prioritized shopping service can use location information obtained from the mobile device to correlate the traffic reports busyness reports to specific merchant locations. In a certain example the mobile application can provide the user with a simple interface to rank busyness on a scale from 1 to 10.

At the method can continue with the merchant module retrieving inventory data from local merchants. The inventory can be obtained directly from participating merchant or from third party aggregators of real time inventory data such as Milo from eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. . At the method can continue with the mapping engine determining hotspots from from the busyness data received in operation . At the method can continue with the merchant module determining low inventor conditions regarding items on the list of target purchase items. At the method can continue with the routing module developing a shopping plan. In an example the routing module can use inventory data and hotspot information to develop an efficient shopping plan. The prioritized shopping system can be configured to more heavily weight speed or efficiency versus likelihood of obtaining all items on the list of items for purchase. For example if the routing module is prioritizing obtaining all items then low inventory conditions may dictate the shopping plan developed. Alternatively if efficiency is prioritized then the routing module may attempt to avoid hotspots e.g. busy merchant locations to minimize shopping time. At the method can conclude with the networked system transmitting the shopping plan to a mobile device. Once on the mobile device such as mobile device a prioritized shopping application can use the mobile device s location tracking capabilities to provide prompts to follow the shopping route.

Another aspect of an example mobile application display can include a prioritized shopping plan view. The prioritized shopping plan can also be displayed in a most efficient first versus best deals first view prioritizing in a manner similar to described above. The prioritized shopping plan view can include a list of items and associated merchant locations as well as directions for getting from one merchant location to the next.

Another aspect of an example mobile application display can include a prioritized shopping plan view. The prioritized shopping plan can also be displayed in a most efficient first versus best deals first view prioritizing in a manner similar to described above. The prioritized shopping plan view can include a list of items and associated merchant locations as well as directions for getting from one merchant location to the next.

In an example probabilities can be arbitrary and each event circle in is independent accordingly the probability of either leaving an event or repeating an event will sum to 1. However probabilities of leaving an event or repeating an event are not static. For example in one iteration a probability of leaving an event P A can be 0.6 which would result in the probability of repeating the event P B as 0.4. In this example the event repeats and then P A 0.8 and P B 0.2 resulting in a much lower probability of repeating a second time.

The following outlines an example scenario involving the states S S S and S depicted in . This example scenario assumes that the user has no attributes. Further it is assumed that the probability of a user visiting a popular location to be 0.6 then the probability of ending at S is less than 0.4. If it is assumed that the probability of a user using a coupon is 0.8 then the probability of ending at S is less than 0.2. Finally if it is assumed that the probability of a user using recommendations to visit a store is 0.7 then the user will likely end at S.

In the example depicted by each representation of S e.g. S S S and S can be an order state used to direct users to a list of stores. For example S can represent a store that is busy the user has a coupon for and the store is highly ranked in recommendations received by the user. In an example all stores in this category would be recommended. In this example S can represent a popular store that the user has a coupon for but the user has received no recommendations for the store. In this example S can represent a popular store that the user has no coupons for and has received no recommendations. Finally in this example S can represent a store that the user has no relevant data on.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms. Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is a tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors with these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. APIs .

Example embodiments may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Example embodiments may be implemented using a computer program product for example a computer program tangibly embodied in an information carrier for example in a machine readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus for example a programmable processor a computer or multiple computers.

A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

In example embodiments operations may be performed by one or more programmable processors executing a computer program to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. Method operations can also be performed by and apparatus of example embodiments may be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a FPGA or an ASIC .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In embodiments deploying a programmable computing system it will be appreciated that both hardware and software architectures require consideration. Specifically it will be appreciated that the choice of whether to implement certain functionality in permanently configured hardware e.g. an ASIC in temporarily configured hardware e.g. a combination of software and a programmable processor or a combination of permanently and temporarily configured hardware may be a design choice. Below are set out hardware e.g. machine and software architectures that may be deployed in various example embodiments.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or used by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions or data structures. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures used by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. A machine readable storage medium shall also include devices that may be interpreted as transitory such as register memory processor cache and RAM among others. The definitions provided herein of machine readable medium and machine readable storage medium are application even if the machine readable medium is further characterized as being non transitory. For example any addition of non transitory such as non transitory machine readable storage medium is intended to continue to encompass register memory processor cache and RAM among other memory devices.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium. The instructions may be transmitted using the network interface device and any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a LAN a WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. WiFi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible media to facilitate communication of such software.

Thus a method and system for prioritized local shopping have been described. Although the present invention has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be used and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the appended claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

Such embodiments of the inventive subject matter may be referred to herein individually and or collectively by the term invention merely for convenience and without intending to voluntarily limit the scope of this application to any single invention or inventive concept if more than one is in fact disclosed. Thus although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it should be appreciated that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This disclosure is intended to cover any and all adaptations or variations of various embodiments. Combinations of the above embodiments and other embodiments not specifically described herein will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description.

All publications patents and patent documents referred to in this document are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety as though individually incorporated by reference. In the event of inconsistent usages between this document and those documents so incorporated by reference the usage in the incorporated reference s should be considered supplementary to that of this document for irreconcilable inconsistencies the usage in this document controls.

In this document the terms a or an are used as is common in patent documents to include one or more than one independent of any other instances or usages of at least one or one or more. In this document the term or is used to refer to a nonexclusive or such that A or B includes A but not B B but not A and A and B unless otherwise indicated. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein. Also in the following claims the terms including and comprising are open ended that is a system device article or process that includes elements in addition to those listed after such a term in a claim are still deemed to fall within the scope of that claim. Moreover in the following claims the terms first second and third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

