---

title: Electronic file security management platform
abstract: According to some embodiments, an electronic file security management platform may receive a request from a user to access a first electronic file associated with a first application, such as a word processing document. A security characteristic associated with the user may be determined, and an encrypted version of the first electronic file may be decrypted in accordance with the security characteristic. The electronic file security management platform may then arrange for the user to access the first electronic file via the first application such that: (i) a first portion of the first electronic file is available to the user based on a first security requirement associated with the first portion and the security characteristic, and (ii) a second portion of the first electronic file is not available to the user based on a second security requirement associated with the second portion and the security characteristic.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08881307&OS=08881307&RS=08881307
owner: SAP SE
number: 08881307
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20120530
---
Some embodiments relate to systems and methods associated with electronic files. More specifically some embodiments are directed to systems and methods to provide an electronic file security management platform.

An enterprise typically stores large amounts of information in electronic files. For example a company might store word processing documents financial spreadsheets and business presentations in a repository that may be accessed by employees. Note however that in some situations the enterprise might want to limit access to these electronic files. For example not all employees should be allowed to view a document that lists every employee s home address and yearly salary. To limit access to this type of information a security requirement may be associated with some or all of the electronic files. For example illustrates an example including a first electronic file and a second electronic file . The first electronic file is associated with a first security requirement e.g. a first password while the second electronic file is associated with a second security requirement e.g. a second password . Thus employees in a human resources department might be given the second password and as a result only those employees might be able to access the second electronic file .

In many cases an electronic file may be associated with multiple portions. For example the electronic files in each contain a first portion and a second portion. Moreover an enterprise might be interested in limiting access to certain portions while still allowing access to other portions e.g. a school might want to let students access one portion of an electronic file that lists homework assignments while preventing access to another portion that lists the test scores of all students . Providing a security requirement associated with an entire electronic file however does not provide such a capability.

Accordingly methods and mechanisms to efficiently accurately and or automatically limit access to portions of electronic files may be provided in accordance with some embodiments described herein.

An enterprise may stores information in electronic files such as word processing documents financial spreadsheets and business presentations in a repository that may be accessed by employees. Moreover each electronic file might include a number of different portions. For example illustrates an example including a first electronic file and a second electronic file each including a first portion and a second portion.

In many cases an enterprise might be interested in limiting access to certain portions while still allowing access to other portions e.g. a business might want to let employees access one portion of an electronic file that lists broad business goals while preventing access to another portion that lists specific companies that the businesses is thinking of purchasing to meet those goals . Accordingly methods and mechanisms to efficiently accurately and or automatically limit access to portions of electronic files may be provided in accordance with some embodiments described herein. In particular as illustrated in a first portion of the first electronic file is associated with a first security requirement while a second portion of the first electronic file is associated with a second security electronic file. Similarly a first portion of the second electronic file is associated with a first security requirement while a second portion of the second electronic file is associated with a second security electronic file. Thus if an employee is given a password representing the first security requirement he or she would be able to access the first portion of both files without being able to access the second portions.

According to some embodiments the electronic file security management platform may directly communicate with one or more remote user devices via the Internet. According to other embodiments a gateway may be provided between the electronic file security management platform and the user devices . The user devices may include one or more processors to receive electronic files and or to execute applications and or components e.g. a plug in that is integrated to a smartphone .

Note that represents a logical architecture for the system according to some embodiments and actual implementations may include more or different components arranged in other manners. Moreover each system described herein may be implemented by any number of devices in communication via any number of other public and or private networks. Two or more of devices may be located remote from one another and may communicate with one another via any known manner of network s and or a dedicated connection. Further each device may comprise any number of hardware and or software elements suitable to provide the functions described herein as well as any other functions. Other topologies may be used in conjunction with other embodiments.

Any of the devices illustrated in including the electronic file security management platform and user devices may exchange information via any communication network which may be one or more of a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN a Wide Area Network WAN a proprietary network a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a Wireless Application Protocol WAP network a Bluetooth network a wireless LAN network and or an Internet Protocol IP network such as the Internet an intranet or an extranet. Note that any devices described herein may communicate via one or more such communication networks.

All systems and processes discussed herein may be embodied in program code stored on one or more computer readable media. Such media may include for example a floppy disk a CD ROM a DVD ROM magnetic tape OR solid state Random Access Memory RAM or Read Only Memory ROM storage units. Embodiments are therefore not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software.

At S a request from a user to access a first electronic file associated with a first application may be received at an electronic file security management platform. As used herein the phrase electronic file might refer to for example a word processing document a spreadsheet file an image file an audio file a video file an electronic mail file streaming information a text file an XML file a source code file and or any combination of these types of information. By way of example an employee might indicate to the electronic file security management platform that he or she wishes to open a word processing document associated with a legal contract.

At S a security characteristic associated with the user may be determined. As used herein the phrase security characteristic might refer to for example a user identifier a user credential e.g. a password or security certificate a user role within an organization a user age social network information a user gender a user s residential area a rank within an organization a user device user preferences past behavioral patterns and or any combination of these types of information. For example it might be determined that a user requesting access to word processing document associated with a legal contract is an engineer but not an attorney.

At S an encrypted version of the first electronic file may be decrypted in accordance with the security characteristic. For example a password security certificate a PGP key and or any other type of information might be used to decrypt the electronic file.

At S it may be arranged via the electronic file security management platform for the user to access the first electronic file via the first application. In particular a first portion of the first electronic file may be available to the user based on a first security requirement associated with the first portion and the security characteristic. Note however that a second portion of the first electronic file may not be available to the user based on a second security requirement associated with the second portion and the security characteristic. For example an engineer might be allowed to view and modify certain portions of a legal contract e.g. associated with target due dates while not being allowed to view and or modify other portions e.g. associated with legal definitions or disclaimers . As used herein a user s access to a portion of an electronic file might be associated with for example viewing the portion deleting the portion changing the portion creating a new portion and or altering a security requirement associated with a portion e.g. changing who is allowed to view that portion .

In some cases a creator of an electronic file may define a security requirement for a document portion. For example the author of a document might highlight a particular portion and indicate to the electronic file security management platform that only managers should be allowed to change that portion. According to some embodiments an electronic file security management platform might automatically assign a security requirement to a portion based on content detected in that portion. For example the electronic file security management platform might detect that employee salary information was cut and pasted into a table and as a result automatically limit viewing of that table to employees who work in the company s human resources department. Note that according to some embodiments such information may be obtained from metadata either configured by a user provided with the platform received from an online source or accumulated by monitoring work that provides characteristics of a portion . According to some embodiments a metadata repository located locally via a server or via the web may build up and maintain such information indentifying electronic information and its required security level and or correct characterization.

According to some embodiments an automatic notification may be generated when content is detected that conflicts with security requirements e.g. in accordance with a rule stored in the metadata repository . Moreover a final version of an electronic file may be automatically verified and security requirements may be associated to portions of the final version in accordance with information in the metadata repository .

According to other embodiments an electronic file security management platform might automatically assign a security requirement to a portion based on a creator of the portion. For example changes to a paragraph written by someone in a legal department might only be allowed to be changed by other employees in the legal department. Note that any change to an electronic file might result in the file being re encrypted to create a re encrypted version that will replace the prior encrypted version of the electronic file.

Thus different portions of a single electronic file within the repository may be edited and or viewed as appropriate in accordance with a context of a specific user or the role of that user within an enterprise . According to some embodiments a user accesses the electronic file security management platform to edit a file in the repository . According to some embodiments access via the application is based on logging credentials to enable protection of the file and only allowing the editor to open the file. Note that further editing of the file might not be owned only by the file creator but may instead be performed by others e.g. in accordance with their roles and specific user identities . According to some embodiments the user selects the type of file to edit according to the available supported applications e.g. having appropriate plug ins for each application . Note that plug in allows for the running of the application from the user context and directs it to save files on a specific directory or to follow a file path in which the current file is being edited. Such an approach doesn t need to be limited to a particular file system and can be in the same way in any repository.

The user may now edit the file and at any point might specify that a specific portion should only be accessed by a specific user or a specific role. During editing the user may also start a new portion that is characterized with specific metadata and or attributes qualifying the section to be limited to a specific authorized user or specific roles. According to some embodiments a final version of a document may be reviewed and according to specific metadata characterizing information different portions may be assigned the correct security authentication and or role adaptation according to the attributes and the metadata characterizing the information e.g. payroll information might be characterized as something that only managers are allowed to see as personal and protected information . The final version of a file might be associated with the highest security level that was set within the file.

The plug in might use direct access to the application based on an enhancement provided by the application or any open API provided by the application such as via macros or XML . The plug in may also use the platform of the operation system to allow access to application using current capabilities or enhanced capabilities made specifically to support the electronic file security management platform . Note that the platform might also determine information about the current user from other applications such as an SAP HANA system. For example consider a record with a field from type binary which is a word document. In this case the system may enable portion in the document to be seen by user having a role of viewer in an SAP HANA system. According to some embodiments the binary content may be already encrypted and plug in may be used to view the encrypted content.

According to some embodiments when the user is done editing the file via the application the file is then encrypted and saved in such way that only the electronic file security management platform can open it with the specific corresponding plug in . For specific applications that allow proper APIs and collaboration for the proper plug in the file might be provided directly under electronic file security management platform context. For example there are many applications that allow exporting files via print capabilities. In the same way a save or save as feature may be altered by a corresponding plug in to be saved under electronic file security management platform context.

A user who wants to read view a file edited via the electronic file security management platform might need to use the electronic file security management platform to view that file. The user may first for example login with his or her credentials and be identified by an appropriate user identification and or role. If a user does not have the application installed the plug in might still provide a view of the file. Note that the exposed parts of the file provided to the user might represent only those portions that were specified for the specific user or for the user s corresponding role and authorization were defined either directly by an author or editor of the file or according to metadata characterizing the content. If a specific user wants to re edit a file he or she might only be allowed to do so only in those portions that are available to him or her for editing. After re editing the file may then be encrypted again and saved.

To specify edited portions of a file such as a document for access by a specific user or role the plugin may operate to allow instant access to available options e.g. by pressing a hot key and right clicking on a selected paragraph . According to some embodiments a user may configure in advance a set of users and their roles such as by forming groups based on a user management environment in an organization based on friends from social networks or based on any known way of user and role management that allows integration to the system e.g. associated with a user management engine and or a simple extraction and import of information via the plug in .

A user or organization might configure a set of rules attributes and or metadata for different types of content and or define categorize and or characterize types of information to be available section during file editing. According to some embodiments a pre determined or default set of rules may be provided. Some or all of this information might be stored for example in the metadata repository .

During editing a user may click a hot key to open an electronic file security management platform menu and indicate a current start point to be viewable only by a specific user or specific role and an associated end of the portion. In the same way a user might define a characteristic of current content and provide corresponding metadata for it according to his or her own roles and authorizations. According to some embodiments there may be an automatic process that reviews a file and configured rules attributes and pre defined definitions may let the electronic file security management platform designate sections as appropriate e.g. all pages watermarked as Top Secret might be designed as only being viewable by employees having such a security clearance .

In addition to documents and spreadsheets some embodiments may be associated with streaming files. For example illustrates streaming information in accordance with some embodiments. In particular a video stream file may contain content rated to specific age. This may be used to censor inappropriate content on the fly according to specific classifications of the content. According to some embodiment such security requirements may be stored as metadata in an encrypted version of an electronic file. For example first and third portions of the streaming information might only be viewable by those who are at least eighteen years old and younger users might only be presented with a blank screen during those portions or the information might simply be skipped while a second portion might be viewable by everyone.

Note that the architectures described with respect to are provided only as an example and any other type of apparatus might be provided instead. For example is a block diagram overview of one such apparatus according to some embodiments. The apparatus may be for example associated with an employee device and or a business server. The apparatus comprises a processor such as one or more commercially available Central Processing Units CPUs in the form of one chip microprocessors coupled to a communication device configured to communicate via a communication network not shown in . The communication device may be used for example as an input path to receive employee inputs and or business system data. The apparatus further includes an input device e.g. a mouse and or keyboard to enter security requirements and an output device e.g. a computer monitor to display business information reports that a user is authorized to view .

The processor communicates with a storage device . The storage device may comprise any appropriate information storage device including combinations of magnetic storage devices e.g. a hard disk drive optical storage devices and or semiconductor memory devices. The storage device stores a program and or business data platform for controlling the processor . The processor performs instructions of the programs and thereby operates in accordance with any of the embodiments described herein. For example the processor may receive a request from a user to access a first electronic file associated with a first application such as a word processing document. A security characteristic associated with the user may be determined by processor and an encrypted version of the first electronic file may be decrypted in accordance with the security characteristic. The processor may then arrange for the user to access the first electronic file via the first application such that i a first portion of the first electronic file is available to the user based on a first security requirement associated with the first portion and the security characteristic and ii a second portion of the first electronic file is not available to the user based on a second security requirement associated with the second portion and the security characteristic.

The programs may be stored in a compressed uncompiled and or encrypted format. The programs may furthermore include other program elements such as an operating system a database management system and or device drivers used by the processor to interface with peripheral devices.

As used herein information may be received by or transmitted to for example i the apparatus from another device or ii a software application or module within the apparatus from another software application module or any other source.

In some embodiments such as shown in the storage device stores a file repository database a security management database and or a user credentials database e.g. including employee user names and passwords . An example of a security management database that may be used in connection with the apparatus will now be described in detail with respect to . Note that the database described herein is only an example and additional and or different information may be stored therein. Moreover various databases might be split or combined in accordance with any of the embodiments described herein.

Referring to a table is shown that represents the security management database that may be stored at the apparatus according to some embodiments. The table may include for example entries identifying portions of electronic files associated with an enterprise. The table may also define fields for each of the entries. The fields may according to some embodiments specify a file identifier a portion identifier a security requirement a user s security characteristics and an access indication . The information in the security management database may be created and updated for example based on data received from file creators editors and or the user.

The file identifier may be for example a unique alphanumeric code identifying an electronic file and the portion identifier identifies a sub set of the information in the file. For example as illustrated by the first two entries in the file identifier F  is associated with two portions P  and P . The security requirement might indicate a condition rule or logic that defines who can access a particular portion. For example portion P  of file F  can be accessed by any user who is an employee of enterprise while portion P  of that file can only be accessed by user s who work in the human resources department. Note that portion P  of file F  may be independent of P  of file F  and have different security requirements . The user s security characteristics define information about the user e.g. the user s role within the enterprise and age and the access indication might indicate whether or not the user is allowed to access that particular portion of the file.

Note that the security management database may further support interaction with a user management system. For example a shared document accessed via an SAP HANA application might have portions accessible in accordance with HANA user management. When the same document is accessed via a portal other portions might be available. Note that a management platform may be used by other applications to retrieve the encrypted electronic file. As a result user credentials and authorizations in the system e.g. either HANA Portal Sharepoint etc. can be transferred and used by the management platform to provide appropriate content to a user.

Thus some embodiments may establish methods and mechanisms to efficiently accurately and or automatically limit access to portions of electronic files. Moreover embodiments may let users view and or edit files in accordance with their particular roles within an organization.

The following illustrates various additional embodiments and do not constitute a definition of all possible embodiments and those skilled in the art will understand that the present invention is applicable to many other embodiments. Further although the following embodiments are briefly described for clarity those skilled in the art will understand how to make any changes if necessary to the above described apparatus and methods to accommodate these and other embodiments and applications.

Although embodiments have been described with respect to business systems note that embodiments may be associated with other types of enterprise data. For example financial governmental and or medical information may be processed in accordance with any of the embodiments described herein.

Embodiments have been described herein solely for the purpose of illustration. Persons skilled in the art will recognize from this description that embodiments are not limited to those described but may be practiced with modifications and alterations limited only by the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

