---

title: View locking multi-monitor screen magnifier
abstract: A method of locking magnified screen views including the steps of magnifying a portion of a graphic user interface on a first monitor to establish a first magnified view having upper, lower, left and right boundaries, magnifying a portion of the graphic user interface on a second monitor to establish a second magnified view having upper, lower, left and right boundaries, whereby the graphic user interface of the first monitor is extended in the direction of the second monitor, responsive to an end-user selectable setting, restricting pointer indicia movement to an area defined by the boundaries of each view that are not between first and second monitor, and responsive to pointer indicia moving from first monitor towards second monitor displaying pointer indicia within second magnified view responsive to pointer indicia crossing the boundary of first magnified view in the direction of second monitor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09626069&OS=09626069&RS=09626069
owner: Freedom Scientific, Inc.
number: 09626069
owner_city: St. Petersburg
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120103
---
This application is a continuation of PCT Patent Application No. PCT US2012 020044 entitled View Locking Multi Monitor Screen Magnifier filed Jan. 3 2012 which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application No. 61 429 303 filed on Jan. 3 2011 also entitled View Locking Multi Monitor Screen Magnifier .

This invention relates to screen magnification software and more specifically to a feature to lock a magnified view.

Screen magnification software generally comprises a software application loaded on a personal computer by optical disc or by download from the Internet. The software runs at a low level frequently intercepting internal messaging at the operating system level and even to graphic display drivers. Magnification software to be effective must be available across the entire operating system and not just be limited to a specific application.

While screen magnification products provide access to the entire desktop area users only have visual access to a portion of the desktop area at any given time because for example with items magnified at 2 magnification the user sees one fourth of the original screen and at 4 magnification the user sees one sixteenth of the original screen.

During typical functionality as the user moves the mouse around the screen the magnified viewing area tracks the movement of the mouse allowing the user to have visual access to the desktop area around the mouse location. There are however times when it would be advantageous to restrict the movement of the mouse to the current magnified view. One example of this is when the user needs to access two pieces of information that are spread apart but could fit into the magnified viewing area except that the movement of the mouse continually pushes the information on one side of the desktop off the screen as the user approaches the information on the other side of the desktop. The user may wish to keep the magnified view stationary while moving the mouse to avoid unintended view changes. When using screen magnification with a single monitor it is important that the mouse is restricted to the magnified area during this view locking mode. Otherwise the mouse will either move outside the boundaries of the magnified area or will cause the magnification area to pan in the direction of the mouse movement.

When using screen magnification in a multi monitor setting the need to be able to lock the current view becomes even more important since the user needs to be able to visually access information in each monitor simultaneously. However the user also may need to be able to freely move the mouse between the monitors while keeping the viewing area static in each monitor. If the user moves the mouse to the edge of the viewing area on one monitor in the direction of another monitor the mouse needs to flow to the other monitor without changing the views in either monitor. However if the user moves the mouse to the edge of the viewing area on a side that does not have another monitor the mouse needs to be bound to the viewing area just as it is in the single monitor scenario.

A view locking feature locks the mouse to the current viewing area in single monitor while keeping the mouse in view allowing it to be moved freely within the limits of a stationary background. Furthermore this feature provides additional functionality for moving smoothly between monitors in a multi monitor setting by allowing the user to move the mouse from an application on one monitor to an application on the other monitor while circumventing the undesired behavior of shifting the view in either monitor. The magnified views will stay stationary and the mouse will go directly from one application view to the other when a keystroke combination is pressed in conjunction with mouse movement.

Another feature of the present invention is a view predictor function. The predictor function identifies the first area of interest of a low vision user when the screen is magnified. For example if a user invokes 4 screen magnification then always moves to a login textbox on a form then the present invention will recall this. When the low vision user invokes the 4 screen magnification for the same application in the same state it will automatically set the view to the login textbox because it will assume from past low vision user interaction that such a view is the most useful to initiate with. The predictor function may resolve the initial view by identifying the first control object the user engages. Going back to the example if the low vision user enters in keystrokes into the login textbox then the textbox control itself will be put at the center of the view automatically upon magnification. This method may also be used to set the focus of the control as well. The predictor function may save the state of the document reference object and user interactions by a number of means including but not limited to session state cookies configuration files e.g. INI XML or the like and or databases.

In another example the low vision user opens up a bank statement report on a web browser and moves to the upper right of the report initially to read the account totals. The user typically spends about five 5 seconds at this screen position or view before panning to other areas of the report as it is magnified by the screen magnification software . The view predictor function in this case stores the Cartesian coordinates of the view where the user moves to and then idles for a preset period of time i.e. five seconds . Thus the view predictor function in this example subsequently sets a view automatically even though the lower vision user was only reading screen contents and not interacting with an interface control object. An advantage of the view predictor function is that the screen view upon magnification is not arbitrarily set for the low vision user. Rather the view is set dynamically based upon the past interactions of the low vision user so the user can immediately start interacting with the magnified interface without having to pan to an area of initial interest repeatedly.

In yet another embodiment of the invention the end user may bookmark a plurality of views which may be accessed in sequence or out of sequence. For example a user may initially need to view a login textbox to access an online banking system. That is view 1. Once logged in the user may want to view the upper right of a bank statement report which is view 2. Finally view 3 may be focused on a bill payment control. The present invention may sequentially move back and forth between view 1 2 and 3 responsive to user initiated events i.e. logging in and being authenticated by the online banking site . In addition views may be presented in sequence by a wait loop for each view. For example view 2 only requires five 5 seconds for the low vision end user to review the banking account totals after which end user almost always goes directly to view 3 to pay bills. View 2 can be presented for five 5 seconds before the present invention either pans or jumps to view 3 based on the end user s manual preferences or the background monitoring of the end user s pattern of interaction with the graphic user interface. The end user may step backwards or forwards manually via a keystroke mouse action voice command or the like.

Turning to dual monitor system is represented having left monitor A and right monitor B displaying an extended desktop with two separate web browser windows. In screen magnification software zooms each monitor to 2 magnification. Mouse is shown over a 2 magnified view in left monitor A. In end user moves mouse towards the center of a web browser in left monitor A and for the purposes of this discussion this first view is what end user wants to maintain.

In end user wishes to move mouse to right monitor B. However in doing so end user loses first view in left monitor A as the movement of the mouse scrolls the zoomed in desktop canvas in left monitor A away from first view towards the right side of the screen. When mouse arrives at the left edge of left monitor B it will always be at the left side of the desktop canvas of right monitor B. In end user moves mouse downward to second view in right monitor B. Second view is the area of interest for end user in right monitor B and first view is the area of interest for end user in left monitor A. However for end user to return to left monitor A by sweeping mouse leftwards both first and second views are lost as shown in wherein mouse movement from one monitor to another pans the view to a virtual boundary between monitors. The virtual boundary is the Cartesian coordinates wherein the mouse disappears from one monitor and reappears instantly on the other. This is unproductive and frustrating to the low vision user.

An embodiment of the present invention is shown in . In left monitor A is set to first view. When mouse hits the right edge of first view mouse instantly jumps into second view. In contradistinction to first view did not scroll off screen to the left in response. In mouse is swept leftwards from right monitor B towards left monitor A from second view. Second view in maintained in right monitor B and when mouse hits the left edge of second view in the direction of left monitor A mouse instantly jumps back into first view on left monitor A. This is achieved by the screen magnification software storing and retrieving variables defining the views.

Returning to crossing left boundary of second view will cause mouse to instantly return to first view on left monitor A. It should be noted that the present invention is not limited to two monitors but may be logically extended to more monitors. For example if three monitors are arranged side by side then a locked view in the middle monitor might only restrict mouse movement on the upper and lower boundaries of that view since the mouse could sweep to the left monitor or right monitor in such a configuration.

It should also be noted that when mouse jumps into a new view an embodiment of the invention places focus on whatever control or application exists directly underneath mouse s location. This is a preference that can be set by the user. For example a fillable form is in focus in a first monitor and a person s birth certificate is in a second monitor. The end user wishes to type data into the fillable form but also needs to expose areas on the birth certificate not currently in the magnified view. It would be most efficient to maintain focus in the fillable form but also be able to track mouse movement to change the view in second monitor so that various data fields on the birth certificate can be viewed. In this instance the software application would not automatically change focus to the control or application directly underneath mouse location because the user wants focus to remain in the fillable form. Alternatively if a user was copying and pasting between two applications each on separate monitors having the focus automatically forced underneath mouse location when switching between monitors would be preferable since the user will copy text from the first application and then paste it into the second application i.e. focus is needed to obtain and deliver data to and from the clipboard .

Moving the mouse between one monitor to another and then forcing focus on the application or control underneath may be invoked by standard Windows calls to and from the application programming interface API . Standard Windows API calls are used to determine which application is underneath the mouse and also to force focus into that application. Another feature is to automatically bring an application into focus without moving the application s cursor. For example if data is cut and pasted between a word processing document on a first monitor and a spreadsheet on a second monitor it may be preferable when bringing the word processing application into focus to maintain the previous location of the cursor in the document.

An embodiment of the invention is shown in logical steps in wherein the screen magnification software is loaded onto a computer. The software contains instructions on a computer readable medium which provide instructions to a computer processor. In all embodiments of the invention the behavior of the screen locking feature transforms the display and thus enhances the usability of the screen reader software. The screen is magnified and view locking is enabled . If mouse is out of view upon view locking then mouse is moved to the center of the view. If single monitor exists then mouse stays within the boundaries of the view on all four sides. In a multi monitor environment mouse jumps into view on the other monitor. Applications and controls under mouse that has entered a view are given focus .

In an online banking website is presented on a computer monitor with the area of interest to the low vision user identified by a magnifying glass graphic . At this point the screen magnification is not enabled. However it should be noted that the end user always types in her member number in the textbox to initiate the login process. Prior to the present invention screen magnification software would not take the user s past interaction into account which would force the low vision end user to repeatedly navigate to the textbox control field. This can be cumbersome for repetitive tasks. However as shown in upon the end user initiating magnification of the screen the browser state focus and URL are read by the screen magnification software which then automatically generates the view in . In an alternative embodiment of the invention the screen magnification software automatically generates the view in simply responsive to the browser navigating to that particular URL. In such case the magnification invocation magnification level view and even the focus of the control are all automatically set by the screen magnification software without any end user interaction. For repetitive and necessary tasks this can drastically improve the efficiency of the computing experience for the low vision user.

Turning now to a low vision user checking the status of case pending before the U.S. Patent Trademark Office prefers to go immediately to the center right side of the Application Data report which gives a status text string and a status date. This area is identified in by a magnifying glass graphic . However the area when magnified appears as in i.e. the view . This view is automatically invoked responsive to the user entering in the case identifier a control number is this example . The user typically only needs about five 5 seconds to assimilate this information before proceeding to a different tab on the graphic user information to check the image file wrapper. However the six 6 tabs viewable without magnification in are outside the viewable area in . An embodiment of the present invention either by monitoring past end user interaction or by manual invocation automatically sends the necessary response to the browser to display the Image File Wrapper tab which is shown unmagnified in . The end user initially examines the most recent mail room date as identified by the magnifying glass graphic . A magnified view is shown in . However the end user by past and repeated activity scrolls slowly from left to right to view the top line of the available documents. An embodiment of the invention as shown in unmagnified scrolls the magnified view at a predetermined speed automatically based on the end user s prior activity monitored by the screen magnification software and ends up with a static view at the position shown by the non hatched magnifying glass . The magnified view is shown in .

Boundaries are the edges of a rectangular view. The boundaries of a view include an upper lower right and left boundary.

Computer includes any computing device capable of running the software. In the context of the present invention this would be any computer capable of rendering a graphic user interface and displaying a magnified view thereof to an end user.

Computer Readable Media includes software embodied in a distributable package including but not limited magnetic media optical media and network accessible digital distribution.

Control Object is an element on the graphic user interface that accepts some form of end user input. Examples of control objects include but are not limited to text forms drop down lists list boxes radio buttons check boxes and hyperlinks.

Document for the purposes of this specification includes any content based application including a web page word processing document or portable document format reference e.g. ADOBE ACROBAT .

End User is a human being that utilizes the functionality of the computer software as opposed to a developer who authors the functionality of the computer software.

Focus is a property of a software application or control within a software application that makes it active or otherwise available for immediate interaction. For example when a web browser application visits a search engine code on the web server for that search engine will typically automatically put a caret text insertion point indictor into a form field box. This allows the end user to immediately start typing out his or her search inquiry. Another example of focus is when moving through a series of form fields the caret jumps to the next form after the user depresses a key such as ENTER or TAB. 

Graphic User Interface is the visual display presented to the end user that contains information and or interactive controls for the end user to utilize the functionality of the software. The graphic user interface may also be reviewed to as the desktop which may be presented on a single monitor or extended across a plurality of monitors. Typically the monitors are placed side by side. When the pointing indicia usually a caret or cursor moves to the right edge of the left monitor it will reappear on the left edge of the right monitor.

Monitor is a display device which may include a cathode ray tube LCD screen or the like. A plurality of monitors may be linked together to form a multi monitor display. In a multi monitor display the information on one monitor may be redisplayed on a second monitor or more monitors as connected . However for the purposes of this disclosure a multi monitor display may be configured to extend the desktop area from one monitor to another. This permits a greater amount of information to be displayed to the end user simultaneously. A particular utility of a multi monitor display is to present two separate applications side by side a first software application on a first monitor and a second software application on a second monitor .

Panning or scrolling refers to the movement of a graphic user interface or desktop when under magnification. Panning incrementally moves scrolls or tilts the user s view across what is apparently a larger image that is not wholly seen.

Pointer Indicia is a caret or cursor visual element that moves about the graphic user interface typically in response to a peripheral device such as a mouse track pad touchscreen or the like.

Screen Magnification is the function of enlarging a portion of the graphic user interface particularly for low vision users. Screen magnification may be built into the operating system running on the computer i.e. common brands include WINDOWS 7 ANDROID LINUX or may be a third party application run in concert with the operating system i.e. MAGIC sold by Freedom Scientific Inc. .

Software Program includes a sequence of instructions written to perform a specified task with a computer.

View is a magnified rectangular portion of the graphic user interface defined by the Cartesian Coordinates of its location with respect to the overall area of the graphic user interface.

View Locking according to the present invention is defined as invoking one or more boundaries in a magnified view and disabling the panning of that magnified view regardless of whether pointing indicia crosses one or more boundaries. View locking may also restrict the movement of the pointing indicia itself to within one or more boundaries. An embodiment of view locking on a single monitor graphic user interface may prohibit panning and or movement of the pointing indicia outside the view across all four boundaries of a rectangular view. In a dual monitor embodiment three of the four rectangular view boundaries are locked while a common boundary permits movement of the pointing indicia from one monitor to another. In a three monitor embodiment a middle monitor may have two boundaries unlocked so that the pointing indicia may traverse the middle monitor from the outside monitors.

It will be seen that the advantages set forth above and those made apparent from the foregoing description are efficiently attained and since certain changes may be made in the above construction without departing from the scope of the invention it is intended that all matters contained in the foregoing description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

