---

title: Video efficacy measurement
abstract: Techniques and mechanisms are described herein for facilitating the detection of user responses to media content. According to various embodiments, movement data transmitted from a first client machine may be received. The movement data may be associated with a presentation of a media content item. The movement data may be detected at a sensor located at the first client machine. The received movement data may be compared with movement calibration information to create media content response data. The movement calibration information may correlate movement data with a plurality of user responses to the presented media content item. The media content response data may indicate one or more of the plurality of user responses. The media content reaction data may be stored on a storage medium.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08832721&OS=08832721&RS=08832721
owner: MobiTV, Inc.
number: 08832721
owner_city: Emeryville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121112
---
The quality of video advertising and video content delivery may be improved by evaluating viewer reactions to content. For example video advertising and video content are often shown to viewers in focus groups to gauge viewer reactions. In this way advertisers and content providers can determine the efficacy of the content presented. However focus groups constitute a relatively limited content audience. Further the presentation of content to focus groups is typically conducted in a relatively artificial environment that differs significantly from the environments in which viewers tend to view content. Some techniques allow for measuring viewer impressions of video content even outside of such artificial environments. For instance a microphone may be activated to detect the amount of laughter that occurs in response to a comedy program.

Reference will now be made in detail to some specific examples of the invention including the best modes contemplated by the inventors for carrying out the invention. Examples of these specific embodiments are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. While the invention is described in conjunction with these specific embodiments it will be understood that it is not intended to limit the invention to the described embodiments. On the contrary it is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

For example the techniques of the present invention will be described in the context of fragments particular servers and encoding mechanisms. However it should be noted that the techniques of the present invention apply to a wide variety of different fragments segments servers and encoding mechanisms. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. Particular example embodiments of the present invention may be implemented without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process operations have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present invention.

Various techniques and mechanisms of the present invention will sometimes be described in singular form for clarity. However it should be noted that some embodiments include multiple iterations of a technique or multiple instantiations of a mechanism unless noted otherwise. For example a system uses a processor in a variety of contexts. However it will be appreciated that a system can use multiple processors while remaining within the scope of the present invention unless otherwise noted. Furthermore the techniques and mechanisms of the present invention will sometimes describe a connection between two entities. It should be noted that a connection between two entities does not necessarily mean a direct unimpeded connection as a variety of other entities may reside between the two entities. For example a processor may be connected to memory but it will be appreciated that a variety of bridges and controllers may reside between the processor and memory. Consequently a connection does not necessarily mean a direct unimpeded connection unless otherwise noted.

According to various embodiments techniques and mechanisms described herein may facilitate the collection of information for estimating or measuring the efficacy of video content. In many cases the techniques employed may be considered non intrusive by users. For instance accelerometer orientation motion or location data may be collected from a user s mobile phone or other mobile computer. The system may be calibrated to identify user impressions that may be inferred from the analysis of such data. Then data collected may be compared to the calibration data to estimate or measure the efficacy of or the reactions to video advertising or other video content.

Content providers such as advertisers and television networks would like to collect information about viewer reactions in order to understand the impact of media content. In some cases content providers may be able to determine various types of information about viewer reactions via conventional measurement techniques. For instance content providers may detect that viewers tended to turn off the television or change the channel when a particular media content item is presented. However it is anticipated that content providers would like to receive more extensive and detailed information about viewer reactions. Such information may allow the content providers to better measure the efficacy of media content.

Many techniques that would be useful for identifying viewer responses to video content may be considered intrusive or unacceptable by many viewers. For example a microphone at a user s computer or mobile phone may be activated to record reactions such as laughter groans exclamations or other auditory responses. As another example a camera at a user s computer or mobile phone may be activated to record reactions such as facial expressions or whether a viewer walks away from a media playback device presenting a media content item. However many users would be uncomfortable allowing themselves to be filmed or recorded while viewing content.

According to various embodiments techniques and mechanisms described herein may be used to facilitate the measurement or estimation of user responses to media content via less intrusive means. In particular embodiments motion information may be collected from a client machine in the possession of a viewer of media content. For example it is anticipated that many users may be more comfortable with allowing access to data received from an accelerometer or other sensor associated with a mobile phone. As another example data regarding wireless connection signal strength device orientation device location or other such information may be transmitted to a remote server. This information may be analyzed to capture user responses.

According to various embodiments motion information may be collected and analyzed to identify viewer actions in response to the presentation of media content. For example if the motion information indicates that a viewer walked away during the presentation of a movie or advertisement on a television screen then the media system may infer that the viewer was likely less interested in the movie or advertisement than would be the case if the viewer remained near the televisions screen.

According to various embodiments movement information may be collected and analyzed to infer or estimate viewer impressions in response to the presentation of media content. For instance a viewer may be expected to laugh after the occurrence of a punch line in an advertisement or television program intended to be funny. Laughter may often be associated with movement such as shaking or knee slapping which may be detectable by via an accelerometer or other sensor in a mobile phone located in the viewer s pocket. In this situation if movement such as shaking is detected then the media system may infer that the viewer laughed in response to the punch line thus indicating that the viewer found the content funny. In contrast the absence of such movement may indicate that the viewer did not laugh or did not find the content funny.

According to various embodiments techniques described herein may allow content providers to determine the efficacy of media content. For example measuring and aggregating reactions such as laughter exhibited in response to advertising or television programs intended to be funny may allow content providers to determine the extent to which the content was found humorous by users. For instance viewer reactions to one episode of a television program may be compared to viewer reactions to another episode of a television program.

According to various embodiments techniques and mechanisms described herein may facilitate the estimation of viewer responses to various types of media content. For example the media content may be content selected by the viewer or may be advertising content. As another example the media content may be content transmitted via a broadcast network such as a cable or satellite television network or may be content transmitted via an on demand video service such as Netflix or iTunes. As yet another example the media content may be video content such as television or movies or may be audio content such as songs or audio books.

At media content response measurement techniques are calibrated. According to various embodiments the calibration of media content response measurement techniques may involve detecting movement data associated with the presentation of content. At the same time viewer responses or impressions may be measured or estimated more directly via techniques typically considered more intrusive. For instance media content may be presented on a television to a viewer who has a mobile phone in his or her pocket. Then movement data associated with the viewer s mobile phone may be collected at the same time a camera is used to measure the viewer s reaction to the media content.

In particular embodiments the calibration of media content response measurement techniques may be based at least in part on an estimated or expected user action during a given time period. For example at a commercial break during a television broadcast many users might be expected to stand up and move away from the television. Accordingly movement data collected from mobile devices during such a time period may be aggregated and analyzed to determine information such as how many users moved away from the television during a commercial break. In this case the calibration information may include the expected action rather than or in addition to the correlation of previously collected movement data with viewer responses or impressions.

At media content is presented at a content playback device. According to various embodiments the media content may be any type of video and or audio content that is capable of being presented on a content playback device. The media content may include but is not limited to songs movies television programs audio books or radio broadcast. The media content may be received from content sources that may include but are not limited to broadcast networks such as cable or satellite television networks video on demand service providers such as Netflix or iTunes or local or network media storage locations.

According to various embodiments the content playback device may be associated with a content management account. A content management account may provide a vehicle for associating viewer preferences payment and viewing history for interacting with a media system. The media system may be used to view access and manage various types of content. In particular embodiments the content may be viewed on any of a variety of content playback devices such as computers mobile phones and televisions. In some cases these devices may be associated with the content management account. For instance a user may own a mobile phone that has installed an application for accessing content via the media system.

At movement data associated with content presentation is detected. According to various embodiments the movement data may be detected at a mobile computing device such as a smart phone in the possession of a viewer of the media content. The mobile computing device may be linked with the content management account through a content management application so that a server at the media system may receive information collected at the mobile computing device even when the person possessing the mobile computing device is not actively using the content management application. In this way the mobile computing device may collect various types of information through one or more sensors available on the mobile computing device.

According to various embodiments the movement data may include any motion related data capable of being collected or inferred at the mobile computing device or another client machine in communication with the mobile computing device. For example the signal strength of a wireless connection between two devices may provide evidence that the two devices are moving closer together or farther apart. As another example data from one or more motion sensors accelerometers cameras microphones or orientation sensors at a mobile computing device may provide evidence of various types of motion by a person who has possession of the mobile computing device. For instance the mobile computing device may be a mobile phone in the person s pocket a tablet computer in the person s hands or a laptop computer on the person s lap.

At a viewer response is estimated based on the movement data. According to various embodiments the viewer response may be estimated by analyzing the movement data detected at operation based on the calibration performed at operation . The estimated viewer response may include any action impression opinion or reaction performed or expressed during or after the presentation of the media content. For example the estimated viewer response may include laughter sadness or movement toward or away from the content presentation device.

The fragment server provides the caching layer with fragments for clients. The design philosophy behind the client server application programming interface API minimizes round trips and reduces complexity as much as possible when it comes to delivery of the media data to the client . The fragment server provides live streams and or DVR configurations.

The fragment controller is connected to application servers and controls the fragmentation of live channel streams. The fragmentation controller optionally integrates guide data to drive the recordings for a global network DVR. In particular embodiments the fragment controller embeds logic around the recording to simplify the fragment writer component. According to various embodiments the fragment controller will run on the same host as the fragment writer . In particular embodiments the fragment controller instantiates instances of the fragment writer and manages high availability.

According to various embodiments the client uses a media component that requests fragmented MPEG 2 files allows trick play and manages bandwidth adaptation. The client communicates with the application services associated with HTTP proxy to get guides and present the user with the recorded content available.

The fragment server provides the caching layer with fragments for clients. The design philosophy behind the client server API minimizes round trips and reduces complexity as much as possible when it comes to delivery of the media data to the client . The fragment server provides VoD content.

According to various embodiments the client uses a media component that requests fragmented MPEG 4 files allows trick play and manages bandwidth adaptation. The client communicates with the application services associated with HTTP proxy to get guides and present the user with the recorded content available.

At a request to calibrate media content response detection is received. According to various embodiments the request may be received in the context of a media content response detection lifecycle method as discussed with respect to . The request may be generated automatically based on a triggering event may be generated periodically or may be generated manually.

In particular embodiments the request may be generated as part of a media content response detection method as discussed with respect to . For instance movement calibration information may be determined based on analyzing and comparing movement data from a potentially large number of users. For example the media system may receive movement data from a large number of users viewing a broadcast television channel. Around the time of a commercial break movement data such as signal strength or accelerometer data may indicate a significant change in many viewer s relationship to a content presentation device. In this case the timing of the commercial break may be treated as media content response information since many users tend to stand up and move away from a content presentation device such as a television during a commercial break. This media content response information may be associated with the received movement data to infer that any viewer associated with similar movement data has exhibited the response of moving away from the content presentation device.

At a media content item is presented on a media content playback device. According to various embodiments the media content item may be retrieved from any of a variety of media content sources. For example the media content item may be streamed or downloaded from an internet content service provider such as iTunes or Netflix. As another example the media content item may be transmitted from the media system. As yet another example the media content item may be retrieved from a local or network storage location.

According to various embodiments the media content item may be presented when it selected by a viewer. For instance a viewer may select the media content item for playback from a digital content guide or from an asset overlay. In particular embodiments the viewer may also select a media content device for presenting the media content item. For instance the viewer may select any active media playback device associated with the content management account.

At movement data is detected at a client machine in proximity of a viewer of the media content item. According to various embodiments the client machine may be any of various devices. The client machine may be a device held by the user may be located in the user s pocket may be carried by the user in a bag purse or backpack or may be placed on a surface near the user. In particular embodiments the client machine may be associated with the content management account. For instance the user may be logged in to a content management account at the media system.

According to various embodiments movement data may include various types of information collected from the media playback device or from a client machine in proximity to the media playback device. For example movement data may indicate a distance of the client device from the media content playback device as measured via signal strength between the two devices. As another example movement data may indicate acceleration shaking velocity direction of movement orientation e.g. upside down or tilted at an angle time of movement or any other movement related information.

According to various embodiments the movement data may be detected at a client machine via any of various movement detection techniques or mechanisms. For instance the client machine may include one or more of various types of sensors. The sensors that may be used to detect the movement data may include but are not limited to accelerometers orientation sensors signal strength sensors optical sensors vibration sensors cameras or microphones. In some cases more than one sensor may be used to collect the movement data. For instance a mobile phone may include two accelerometers to detect acceleration or movement in different directions.

According to various embodiments movement data may be detected from a client machine such as the content presentation device. For instance the viewer may be holding a tablet computer or mobile phone that is being used to present media content. The tablet computer or mobile phone may include one or more sensors such as an accelerometer camera signal strength detector or microphone.

According to various embodiments movement data may be detected from a client machine other than the media content playback device. For example movement data may be detected from a computing device such as a mobile phone carried by the viewer as the viewer moves toward or away from a media content playback device such as a television. As another example movement data may be detected from a computing device such as a mobile phone as the viewer sits near the media content playback device. For instance movement data may indicate that the viewer is laughing or exhibiting some other reaction to the media content presented on the media playback device.

According to various embodiments movement data may be measured at particular times with respect to the presentation of the media content item. For example movement data may be measured before during and after a media event. As another example movement data may be measured as it correlates to a specific event in the presentation of the media content item including but not limited to punch lines dramatic pauses intervals or during advertisements or soundtrack orchestrations e.g. dramatic swells of music prior to a fight scene or suspenseful moment .

At media content response information is received from the viewer. According to various embodiments media content response information may be collected via any of various techniques or mechanisms. For example media content response information may be collected by analyzing media content presentation patterns. For instance a broadcast television channel may have a commercial break during a designated time period or a viewer may start or start viewing on demand content at known times. As another example media content response information may also be collected via data self reported by viewers. For instance upon completion of a particular episode of a comedic television program viewers may fill out surveys reporting their responses.

In particular embodiments media content response information may be collected via observation. For example participants in a focus group may be observed by individuals or by audio and or video recording equipment. As another example some viewers may allow their responses to be observed via audio and or video equipment such as a webcam.

At movement data is associated with the media content response information to create movement calibration information. According to various embodiments the movement data may be associated with the media content response information to link particular patterns of movement information to observed media content response information. For instance the media content response information may indicate that the user is laughing while the movement data includes shaking detected from an accelerometer. These two patterns may then be linked so that when shaking is detected laughter may be inferred even in the absence of any explicit media content response information from the viewer.

According to various embodiments certain types of movements may tend to be associated with certain types of responses. For example rapid movement followed by jostling movement coupled with decreasing signal strength between two devices may indicate that a viewer with a mobile phone in their pocket rose from their seat and walked away from the television. As another example shaking motion may indicate that a viewer is laughing. These associations may be analyzed for patterns correlations and tendencies to create movement calibration information which may be used to estimate viewer responses based on movement data. Techniques for estimating viewer responses based on movement data are discussed in .

At a determination is made as to whether to conduct additional media content response calibration. According to various embodiments various criteria may be used to determine whether to conduct additional calibration. For example calibration may continue until the media content is finished playing in its entirety. As another example calibration may be performed at designated times during the presentation of content. For instance media content responses may be calibrated at after punch lines are presented a comedy television program. As another example calibration may continue until a sufficiently high quality association between movement data and media content responses has been reached. As yet another example calibration may continue for a designated period of time such as an hour.

At the movement calibration information is stored. According to various embodiments movement calibration information may be stored in a storage system accessible to the media system. For instance movement calibration information may be stored in a database. Movement calibration information may be stored in such a way that it can be retrieved when performing analysis for estimating viewer responses as discussed with respect to .

At a request to detect a response to a media content item presented on a content playback device is received. According to various embodiments the request may be received at a media system such as the media systems discussed with respect to . The request may be received for designated media content items accessible via the media system. For instance the request may be received when an instruction for presenting a media content item is transmitted to a content playback device in communication with the media system.

At movement data detected at a client machine in proximity of a viewer of the media content item is received. According to various embodiments the receipt of movement data in operation may be substantially similar to the receipt of movement data discussed with respect to operation shown in . In particular embodiments the movement data may be collected at any sensor accessible to a mobile computing device possessed by a viewer of media content. Alternately or additionally the movement data may be collected at any computing device such as a content playback device in communication with such a mobile computing device.

According to various embodiments the movement data may include any information that may allow an inference about or indication of viewer movement. For example the movement data may include data regarding communication connection signal strength. As another example the movement data may include data regarding device acceleration orientation or position.

According to various embodiments the movement data may be collected from any of various mobile devices in communication with the media system. The mobile devices may be associated with content management accounts at the media system. The mobile devices may be in the possession of viewers of the media content. For instance the mobile devices may include tablet computers laptop computers mobile phones or other mobile devices.

According to various embodiments the movement data may be transmitted to the media system shortly after it is detected at the mobile devices. Alternately or additionally the movement data may be aggregated and transmitted later. For instance a mobile device may not be in continuous communication with the media system and may provide the movement data during the time periods when a communications connection is present.

According to various embodiments the movement data may be collected in association with the presentation of media content that is presented at the same time to a large number of viewers. For instance the movement data may be collected from mobile devices of viewers watching a television broadcast. Alternately or additionally the movement data may be collected from mobile devices of viewers watching on demand content such as video streamed over a network such as the Internet. In particular embodiments the movement data may be collected and aggregated for the same media content item. For instance movement data may be collected and aggregated for a particular movie television program or radio program.

At movement calibration information is retrieved. According to various embodiments the movement calibration information may be determined as discussed with respect to . According to various embodiments the movement calibration information may include one or more correlations tendencies or associations linking movement data to viewer responses. For instance the movement calibration data may indicate that a particular type of movement data received from accelerometers or orientation sensors in mobile phones indicates that the person possessing the mobile phone has stood up and is walking away from a television.

In particular embodiments the movement calibration information may be determined by linking movement data with information about viewer responses obtained via more intrusive techniques such as cameras microphones or self reported assessments. Alternately or additionally the movement calibration information may be determined by using known or anticipated information about user actions. For instance many viewers may be expected to stand up and walk around during a commercial presented during a television program. In this case movement data collected from many different viewers during a commercial break in a program may be aggregated and compared to determine the proportion of users who stood up and walked around rather than viewed the commercials.

At the detected movement data is compared with the movement calibration information to estimate a viewer response. According to various embodiments the comparison may be performed by determining whether the movement data fits a pattern associated with a viewer response as indicated by the movement calibration information. For instance the movement calibration information may include a particular pattern of accelerometer data where a shaking movement is detected followed by one or more sharp jarring actions. The movement calibration information may associated with pattern with laughter followed by one or more knee slaps indicating that the viewer possessing the mobile phone at which the accelerometer is located found the media content humorous. If the movement data includes such a pattern then the associated response in the calibration data may be estimated or inferred.

At a determination is made as to whether to conduct additional media content response detection. According to various embodiments the determination may be made based on any of various factors. For example media content response detection may continue to be performed until the presentation of the media content item discussed with respect to operation is completed. As another example media content response detection may continue to be performed until a clear inference as to the viewer response is detected. For instance initially the movement data may not unambiguously identify a viewer response but the viewer response may be clarified upon analysis of additional movement data. As yet another example media content response detection may be performed for a designated period of time. As still another example media content response detection may be performed upon detection of various triggering events such as the occurrence of punch lines in a comedy show.

At information indicating the estimated response is stored. According to various embodiments the information may be stored on a storage medium accessible within the media system. The information may be used for any of various purposes such as improving the experience of viewers of the media content and or users of the media system.

According to various embodiments estimated response information may be used to select content for making it available via the media system. For instance aggregated estimated response information may indicate that users of the media system tend to walk away from the television when a particular media content item is presented. In this case the content provider may elect to provide other content instead of the content that viewers seem to dislike.

According to various embodiments estimated response information may be used to analyze advertising to determine its efficacy or to provide more effective advertising. For instance aggregated estimated response information may indicate that viewers of one advertisement tend to walk away from the television screen while viewers of another advertisement tend to watch the advertisement and even find it humorous. In this case the advertisers may infer that the second advertisement is more effective and more likely to affect viewer behavior than the first advertisement. This may allow the advertisers to better target their advertisements to a particular demographic or even produce more effective advertisements.

According to various embodiments estimated response information may be used to provide improved media content recommendations in association with a content management account. For example the estimated response information may indicate that viewers viewing content in association with a particular content management account tend to laugh more when presented with a particular type of comedy such as situation comedies. In this case these viewers may be provided with recommendations for other comedy shows that fall within the situation comedy category. For instance these recommendations may be provided within the context of a personalized digital program guide created for the content management account.

Particular examples of interfaces supported include Ethernet interfaces frame relay interfaces cable interfaces DSL interfaces token ring interfaces and the like. In addition various very high speed interfaces may be provided such as fast Ethernet interfaces Gigabit Ethernet interfaces ATM interfaces HSSI interfaces POS interfaces FDDI interfaces and the like. Generally these interfaces may include ports appropriate for communication with the appropriate media. In some cases they may also include an independent processor and in some instances volatile RAM. The independent processors may control communications intensive tasks such as packet switching media control and management.

According to various embodiments the system is a server that also includes a transceiver streaming buffers and a program guide database. The server may also be associated with subscription management logging and report generation and monitoring capabilities. In particular embodiments the server can be associated with functionality for allowing operation with mobile devices such as cellular phones operating in a particular cellular network and providing subscription management capabilities. According to various embodiments an authentication module verifies the identity of devices including mobile devices. A logging and report generation module tracks mobile device requests and associated responses. A monitor system allows an administrator to view usage patterns and system availability. According to various embodiments the server handles requests and responses for media content related transactions while a separate streaming server provides the actual media streams.

Although a particular server is described it should be recognized that a variety of alternative configurations are possible. For example some modules such as a report and logging module and a monitor may not be needed on every server. Alternatively the modules may be implemented on another device connected to the server. In another example the server may not include an interface to an abstract buy engine and may in fact include the abstract buy engine itself. A variety of configurations are possible.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However one of ordinary skill in the art appreciates that various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the invention as set forth in the claims below. Accordingly the specification and figures are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of invention.

