---

title: Beamforming from multiple transmission sites
abstract: According to one embodiment, a method includes selecting a first transmission site from a plurality of transmission sites based on the quality of a first channel between the first transmission site and an endpoint. The method further includes determining a first precoding matrix corresponding to the first transmission site. The first precoding matrix may be applied to data transmitted by the first transmission site to the endpoint. The method further includes determining a second precoding matrix corresponding to a second transmission site of the plurality of transmission sites. The second precoding matrix may be determined based on at least a first spatial direction that is calculated based on at least the first channel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09325401&OS=09325401&RS=09325401
owner: Fujitsu Limited
number: 09325401
owner_city: Kawasaki-shi
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20120321
---
This application claims benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 486 070 entitled BEAMFORMING FROM MULTIPLE TRANSMISSION SITES filed May 13 2011 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to methods and apparatuses for beamforming from multiple transmission sites.

An antenna system may include multiple transmission sites. A transmission site may be a base station also known as a Radio Element Control or a Baseband Unit or a remote transmission site also known as a Radio Element or a Remote Radio Head . Transmission sites provide endpoints with wireless network access. Within an antenna system the transmission sites are distributed among different locations and are generally connected to each other via wired connections e.g. optical fiber . An antenna system may implement downlink coordinated multi point processing DL CoMP . DL CoMP is a special type of multiple input and multiple output MIMO transmission where multiple transmitting antennas are placed at different transmission sites while one or more receiving antennas are located at the endpoint. Transmissions from multiple antenna ports at different locations to the same endpoint using the same physical resource blocks PRBs are coordinated by the transmission sites. For example transmissions from multiple base stations may be coordinated over an X2 interface and transmissions involving remote transmission sites may be coordinated over internal fiber connections between a base station and the remote transmission sites.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure relate to beamforming from multiple transmission sites. For example in one embodiment a method includes selecting a first transmission site from a plurality of transmission sites based on the quality of a first channel between the first transmission site and an endpoint. The method further includes determining a first precoding matrix corresponding to the first transmission site. The first precoding matrix may be applied to data transmitted by the first transmission site to the endpoint. The method further includes determining a second precoding matrix corresponding to a second transmission site of the plurality of transmission sites. The second precoding matrix may be determined based on at least a first spatial direction that is calculated based on at least the first channel.

Embodiments and their advantages are best understood by referring to of the drawings like numerals being used for like and corresponding parts of the various drawings.

As used herein transmission site may refer to a base station also known as a Radio Element Control or a Baseband Unit or a remote transmission site also known as a Radio Element or a Remote Radio Head RRH . For example transmission sites may each be base stations. As another example transmission site may be a base station and transmission sites and may be remote transmission sites. In certain situations a transmission site that is a remote transmission site may function as an extension of a transmission site that is a base station. For example the remote transmission site may send wireless signals to endpoint that are similar to wireless signals that would be sent by the base station to the endpoint if endpoint were located close to the base station.

While some antenna systems may select a set of precoding matrices to be used by transmission sites based on an estimated collective throughput through the set of channels certain embodiments of the present disclosure may include selecting the best transmission site determining a precoding matrix for that transmission site and then determining precoding matrices for one or more other transmission sites based on a spatial direction of the effective channel between the best transmission site and the endpoint . Such embodiments may significantly reduce computation complexity for the endpoint and may improve the throughput of single site multiple input and multiple output MIMO transmission.

Transmission site may include any combination of hardware software embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware to implement any number of communication protocols that allow for wired or wireless exchange of information in antenna system . Transmission sites may be operable to send control signals and data traffic to endpoints . A transmission site may also be coupled to other transmission sites via one or more wired connections. These wired connections may comprise any suitable material such as optical fiber. Transmission sites may use any suitable technologies or protocols e.g. Common Public Radio Interface CPRI to communicate with each other.

Transmission site may communicate with endpoint using wireless communication via antennas and . In particular embodiments transmission site coordinates with one or more other transmission sites to communicate with endpoint . For example transmission sites may coordinate with each other to communicate with endpoint using a MIMO transmission scheme where multiple transmitting antennas are placed at different transmission sites while one or more receiving antennas are located at the endpoint . For example transmission sites may communicate with endpoint using a downlink coordinated multi point processing DL CoMP as defined in 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Release 10 or beyond. As an example of MIMO transmission transmission site may wirelessly communicate a portion of a data stream through antennas and and communicate another portion of the data stream through a wired connection to one or more other transmission sites . The other transmission site s then send at least a portion of the data stream to endpoint via one or more wireless connections between one or more antenna ports of the other transmission site s and one or more antenna ports of endpoint . Endpoint may combine multiple signals from multiple transmission sites into a single communication. Transmission sites may communicate with endpoint using any of a variety of different wireless technologies including but not limited to orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA and the long term evolution advanced LTE A protocol as defined in the 3GPP Release 10 or beyond.

Although not shown in the embodiment depicted transmission sites may also be coupled to any network or combination of networks capable of transmitting signals data and or messages including signals data or messages transmitted through WebPages e mail text chat voice over IP VoIP and instant messaging in order to provide services and data to endpoints . For example transmission site may be coupled to one or more LANs WANs MANs PSTNs WiMAX networks global distributed networks such as the Internet Intranet Extranet or any other form of wireless or wired networking. In particular embodiments transmission site also communicates with a base station controller that facilitates handoffs between cells and provides other functions.

Endpoint may comprise any type of wireless device able to send and receive data and or signals to and from transmission site directly and or via one or more other transmission sites . Some examples of endpoints include desktop computers PDAs cell phones laptops and or VoIP phones. Endpoints may provide data or network services to a user through any combination of hardware software embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware . Endpoints may also include unattended or automated systems gateways other intermediate components or other devices that may send or receive data and or signals.

Various types of information may be sent to or from endpoint . As an example transmission site may send data traffic and control traffic to endpoint . Data traffic may be distinguished from control traffic that is used to setup and maintain a connection between one or more transmission sites and endpoint . For example and not by way of limitation data traffic may include information that transmission site receives from a network coupled to the transmission site such as the Internet or from another endpoint located in the same cell or a different cell. In a particular embodiment data traffic is sent to endpoint via a physical downlink shared channel PDSCH as defined in the LTE A protocol. In such embodiments demodulation reference signals DM RS as defined in the LTE A protocol may be sent from the physical antenna ports of the transmission sites and used to extract the relevant data traffic from the PDSCH.

Transmission sites may also send control traffic to endpoint . In particular embodiments these control messages are transmitted by a single transmission site or jointly by multiple transmission sites . The control messages may include information e.g. scheduling or demodulation information that allows endpoint to extract relevant data traffic from transmissions sent from the transmission sites . In particular embodiments these control messages conform to the LTE A standard. For example the control messages may include cell specific reference signals CRS such as primary synchronization signal PSS secondary synchronization signal SSS physical broadcast channel PBCH and or physical downlink control channel PDCCH reference signals.

In particular embodiments transmission sites transmit control signals known as a channel reference signals . A channel reference signal may include a sequence of values such as a pseudo random sequence. As an example a channel reference signal may be a channel state information reference signal CSI RS as defined in LTE A. In particular embodiments each antenna port of a particular transmission site transmits the same channel reference signal e.g. a signal with the same sequence . The antenna ports of each transmission site may transmit one or more channel reference signals that are distinguishable from the channel reference signals transmitted by the antenna ports of each other transmission site . As an example the channel reference signal transmitted by transmission site may be orthogonal in time frequency or code OCC domain or any combination thereof to the channel reference signals and transmitted by transmission sites and respectively. Accordingly endpoint may be able to determine which transmission site is transmitting a particular channel reference signal .

Endpoint may analyze a received channel reference signal to determine one or more characteristics of the channel H between the transmission site that sent the channel reference signal and the endpoint. For example endpoint may calculate a frequency response of the channel based on a received channel reference signal this may be referred to as estimating the channel . When wireless signals are sent from transmission site to endpoint they may take many directions resulting in multipath fading and may be reflected e.g. by buildings or cars or obstructed by objects such as trees. A channel is a composite representation of the various paths that wireless signals sent from transmission site to endpoint may take. The channels from different transmission sites to endpoint e.g. Hand H may be uncorrelated with respect to amplitude and phase while the elements of a channel matrix i.e. the constituent parts of the channel that each correspond to a single antenna port of the same transmission site and a single antenna port of endpoint between a transmission site and an endpoint are usually correlated with respect to amplitude and phase.

Once a channel has been analyzed e.g. estimated endpoint may determine a precoding matrix W for the channel . In particular embodiments the precoding matrix may be selected for the respective transmission site from a predefined codebook CBK that includes a plurality of precoding matrices. For example 3GPP Release 10 provides various codebooks based for various transmission schemes. The precoding matrix is applied to data sent from the respective transmission site and may improve the capacity of channel . For example the precoding matrix may help compensate for pathloss and or other channel effects. The application of the precoding matrix to data transmitted from a transmission site may be analogous to changing the channel characteristics. As used herein an effective channel may be defined as the frequency response of data that is precoded i.e. a precoding matrix is applied to the data and then sent across a channel to the endpoint. Thus the effective channel is the product in the frequency domain of the corresponding channel H and the precoding matrix W applied to data sent through the corresponding channel.

In certain systems when multiple transmission sites transmit a data stream to an endpoint e.g. in a DL CoMP scheme the set of precoding matrices for the transmission sites is selected to optimize the aggregate capacity across all of the channels . However as explained below such an approach suffers from various drawbacks. In particular embodiments of the present disclosure a precoding matrix is determined e.g. selected for a particular transmission site and subsequent precoding matrices may be determined based on at least the effective channel associated with the transmission site . Such embodiments may provide various advantages over existing systems and are explained herein using the following variables 

As explained above each transmission site transmits a channel reference signal to endpoint . These channel reference signals enable the endpoint to estimate the channel H to each of the transmission sites . For example if endpoint knows the channel reference signal that is transmitted from the respective transmission site it can compare this known value to the received channel reference signal to estimate the channel Hthat the channel reference signal passed through.

In particular embodiments endpoint estimates a channel Hto each of a plurality of transmission sites that send endpoint a channel reference signal . The endpoint may choose a precoding matrix Wfor each transmission site based on the estimated channels Hto all the transmission sites . As described above in typical systems the precoding matrices Wmay be chosen to maximize the joint transmission capacity of channels as illustrated by the following equation 

In certain systems the joint selection of the K precoding matrices one for each transmission site is done through an exhaustive search. That is the joint capacity of the K channels is analyzed for each possible combination of precoding matrices from the codebook CBW with the estimated channels . If B is the size of the codebook the computation overhead may be relatively expensive since it is on the order of B. This selection scheme generally requires Btimes the computational resources required to select a precoding matrix when using single site MIMO. Another drawback of this approach is that W the precoding matrix for the transmission site TSwith the best channel may not be optimal for single site MIMO transmission by TSbecause Wwas selected to optimize the joint capacity of all the channels rather than the channel Hthat will be used for single site MIMO. Accordingly suboptimal performance may result if the transmission scheme is changed from CoMP to single site MIMO. Computing a separate Wfor single site MIMO in addition to the Wcomputed for TSwhen using CoMP may also be undesirable as it incurs additional computation and feedback overhead.

In particular embodiments of the present disclosure endpoint estimates each channel to endpoint and then identifies the transmission site TSthat has the best channel Hto endpoint . The best channel may be chosen in any suitable manner. For example the channel corresponding to the channel reference signal with the highest signal strength may be chosen as H. After His selected endpoint determines an optimal precoding matrix Wfor TS. For example endpoint may select as Wthe precoding matrix that will provide the highest channel capacity through Hof any precoding matrix in the codebook CBK. To illustrate this example the precoding matrix for transmission site may be chosen according to the following equation 

As described above precoding matrices Wmay be chosen for the additional channels Hsuch that each resulting effective channel HWsubstantially aligns with HW. This may be accomplished in any suitable manner. For example the following algorithm may be used to determine the additional precoding matrices W 

where is a matrix norm e.g. a Frobenius norm chordal distance or other suitable matrix norm function or other measure A is the Hermitian adjoint of A and His the Moore Penrose pseudoinverse of H. Aindicates the spatial direction of the effective channel HW. Bis a normalized version of Ain order to preserve the transmission power of TS. Wmay be chosen as the precoding matrix in the codebook CBK that is closest to Baccording to the matrix norm function selected.

As another example of choosing precoding matrices Wfor the additional channels Hsuch that each resulting effective channel HWsubstantially aligns with HW the additional precoding matrices Wmay be each chosen based on a composite spatial direction of the effective channels for which precoding matrices Whave already been selected. As an example in certain embodiments the following algorithm may be used to determine the additional precoding matrices 

After determining the precoding matrices Wfor transmission sites endpoint may communicate an indication of the selected precoding matrices to one or more of the transmission sites such that the transmission sites may apply the respective precoding matrices to data signals sent to the endpoint . As an example endpoint may provide a codebook index to a transmission site and the transmission site may access a codebook stored by the transmission sites at the specified index to retrieve the specified precoding matrix.

After the precoding matrices have been determined and communicated to the relevant transmission sites data traffic may be communicated from one or more of the transmission sites to endpoint through antenna ports . This may involve applying the selected precoding matrices to a data stream and then sending the data from the transmission site to the endpoint using at least one wireless connection between the endpoint the transmission site . In particular embodiments transmission site sends the data traffic through one or more antenna ports of transmission site . In other embodiments transmission site may coordinate with one or more other transmission sites to wireless communicate a data stream to endpoint . That is multiple transmission sites may simultaneously transmit at least a portion of the data stream.

Although certain steps are described above as being performed by certain components in general the steps may be performed by any suitable components. For example endpoint may select the best channel or determine precoding matrices or may provide sufficient information to one or more transmission sites such that the transmission sites may perform these operations. Although illustrates a particular number and configuration of endpoints connections links and nodes antenna system contemplates any number or arrangement of such components for communicating data. In addition elements of antenna system may include components centrally located local with respect to one another or distributed throughout antenna system .

The components of a transmission site and an endpoint may comprise any suitable physical form configuration number type and or layout. As an example and not by way of limitation transmission site and or endpoint may comprise an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate transmission site and or endpoint may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.

In the depicted embodiment transmission sites and endpoint each include their own respective processors and memory and storage and interfaces and and buses and . Although a particular antenna system is depicted having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable antenna system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement. For simplicity similar components of transmission sites and endpoint will be discussed together while referring to the component of transmission site . However it is not necessary for these devices to have the same components or the same type of components. For example processor may be a general purpose microprocessor and processor may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC .

Processor may be a microprocessor controller or any other suitable computing device resource or combination of hardware software and or encoded logic operable to provide either alone or in conjunction with other components e.g. memory wireless networking functionality. Such functionality may include providing various wireless features discussed herein. Additional examples and functionality provided at least in part by processor will be discussed below.

In particular embodiments processor may include hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage .

In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translations for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. Depending on the embodiment processor may include any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor include one or more processors or any other suitable processor.

Memory may be any form of volatile or non volatile memory including without limitation magnetic media optical media random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory removable media or any other suitable local or remote memory component or components. In particular embodiments memory may include random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate. Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM or any other suitable type of RAM or memory. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Memory may store any suitable data or information utilized by transmission site including software embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware . In particular embodiments memory may include main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs may reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor .

As an example and not by way of limitation transmission site may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system another base station or a remote transmission site to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor may execute only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and may operate only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere .

In particular embodiments storage may include mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a hard disk drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to transmission site where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage may be non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage may include read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may take any suitable physical form and may comprise any suitable number or type of storage. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate.

In particular embodiments interface may include hardware encoded software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between transmission sites endpoints any networks any network devices and or any other computer systems. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network and or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network.

In some embodiments interface comprises one or more radios coupled to one or more antenna ports . In such an embodiment interface and or receives digital data that is to be sent out to wireless devices such as endpoints via a wireless connection. The radio may convert the digital data into a radio signal having the appropriate center frequency bandwidth parameters and transmission power. Similarly the radios may convert radio signals received via one or more receiving antennas into digital data to be processed by for example processor .

Depending on the embodiment interface may be any type of interface suitable for any type of network for which antenna system is used. As an example and not by way of limitation antenna system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example antenna system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network an LTE network an LTE A network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or any other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Transmission site may include any suitable interface for any one or more of these networks where appropriate.

In some embodiments interface may include one or more interfaces for one or more I O devices. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and transmission site . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touchscreen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. Particular embodiments may include any suitable type and or number of I O devices and any suitable type and or number of interfaces for them. Where appropriate interface may include one or more drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. Interface may include one or more interfaces where appropriate.

Bus may include any combination of hardware software embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware to couple components of transmission site to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or any other suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include any number type and or configuration of buses where appropriate. In particular embodiments one or more buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more tangible computer readable storage media possessing structures. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive a flash memory card a flash memory drive or any other suitable tangible computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate.

Particular embodiments may include one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody encoded software.

Herein reference to encoded software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate that have been stored or encoded in a computer readable storage medium. In particular embodiments encoded software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs stored or encoded in a computer readable storage medium. Particular embodiments may use any suitable encoded software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages stored or encoded in any suitable type or number of computer readable storage media. In particular embodiments encoded software may be expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

Although have been described above as including particular components the systems of may include any combination of any of the described components and any of the options or features described herein as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. For example any of the options or features described herein may be utilized in combination with the illustrated embodiments of and or any number of the other options or features also described herein as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art.

At step endpoint selects the best estimated channel. For example the channel associated with the transmission site from which the strongest channel reference signal was received may be selected as the best estimated channel. If single site MIMO transmission is used to communicate with the endpoint the transmission site with the best channel perform this communication.

At step a precoding matrix is determined for the selected transmission site . In particular embodiments a precoding matrix is selected from a codebook that is known to the endpoint and the transmission sites . The precoding matrix may be selected to maximize the capacity of the channel of the selected transmission site .

At step a spatial direction associated with the selected transmission site is determined. The spatial direction may be based on at least the estimated channel of the selected transmission site . In particular embodiments the spatial direction is the spatial direction of the frequency domain product of the estimated channel and the precoding matrix determined for the selected transmission site .

At step a precoding matrix is determined for an additional transmission site based on the spatial direction determined at step . The precoding matrix for the additional transmission site may be selected such that the effective channel formed by the estimated channel from the additional transmission site and the newly selected precoding matrix has a special direction that is substantially similar to the spatial direction determined at step .

At step it is determined whether a precoding matrix has been determined for each transmission site from which a channel reference signal was received or a subset thereof . If not step is repeated until each transmission site has been assigned a precoding matrix. In particular embodiments the spatial direction determined in step may be refined before the next precoding matrix is chosen. For example if precoding matrices have been chosen for two transmission sites and a spatial direction based on the effective channels associated with these transmission sites may be used at step to determine the precoding matrix for a third transmission site

After the set of precoding matrices has been chosen the method moves to step where an indication of the precoding matrices is transmitted to one or more of the transmission sites . As an example a set of indices corresponding to the precoding matrices may be transmitted from the endpoint to one or more transmission sites . The transmission sites will then apply their respective precoding matrices to data sent by the transmission sites. This data is received at step and the method ends.

Some of the steps illustrated in may be combined modified or deleted where appropriate and additional steps may also be added to the flowchart. Additionally steps may be performed in any suitable order without departing from the scope of particular embodiments.

While various implementations and features are discussed with respect to multiple embodiments it should be understood that such implementations and features may be combined in various embodiments. For example features and functionality discussed with respect to a particular figure such as may be used in connection with features and functionality discussed with respect to another such figure such as according to operational needs or desires.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure may provide one or more technical advantages. Technical advantages of particular embodiments include achieving beamforming gain using precoding matrices at multiple transmission sites . Another technical advantage may include reduced endpoint computation complexity from the order of Bto the order of K significantly reducing both processing resources and power consumption. Another technical advantage may include selection of an optimal precoding matrix for a particular transmission site for use in both CoMP and traditional single site MIMO transmission. Accordingly a base station schedule may be given maximal flexibility in switching between the two modes. Other technical advantages will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art from the following figures descriptions and claims. Moreover while specific advantages have been enumerated above various embodiments may include all some or none of the enumerated advantages.

Although particular embodiments have been described in detail it should be understood that various other changes substitutions and alterations may be made hereto without departing from the spirit and scope of particular embodiments. For example although an embodiment has been described with reference to a number of elements included within transmission site such as a processor memory storage an interface and a bus these elements may be combined rearranged or positioned in order to accommodate particular wireless architectures or needs. In addition any of these elements may be provided as separate external components to transmission site or each other where appropriate. Particular embodiments contemplate great flexibility in the arrangement of these elements as well as their internal components.

Numerous other changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications may be ascertained by those skilled in the art and it is intended that particular embodiments encompass all such changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications as falling within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

