---

title: Method and system to analyze email addresses
abstract: Website and newsletter operators may only have users' email addresses but not their person names. It can be beneficial for such operators to derive additional information about the email address owners so they can improve their services. However, there is no easy way to retrieve owners' information based on only email addresses. The present disclosure provides information such as the owners' names, professional profiles and aggregated statistics with only a list of email addresses as the input.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08751459&OS=08751459&RS=08751459
owner: App Tsunami, Inc.
number: 08751459
owner_city: Los Altos
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120524
---
The present disclosure relates to computer methods and systems to analyze email addresses to provide information about the owners of the email addresses.

A person s email address is a popular way to identify the person. Many newsletter operators only require an email address from a person to subscribe to a newsletter. Some website operators only require a user to provide an email address as the login identifier and the first name and last name are not required. It would be helpful for these operators to get some information about their users e.g. genders ethnic origins geographic locations job positions and industries. Such information can be used by the operator to improve services.

The limitation is that these operators only have the email addresses of their users but not their person names and most traditional profile databases do not support using email address as the search key. Some commercial service providers offer services to look up people by their email addresses. Examples of such service providers include Corporate Yellow Book Jigsaw Netprospex Zoominfo Emailfinder Spokeo and Rapleaf. Their approach is to build up and maintain a proprietary database using government records public records public web sites social website membership data manual user submission and or various online tracking technologies such as web browser cookies.

The approach of these commercial service providers has several challenges. The first challenge is that it requires significant time and effort to accumulate a database large enough to be useful. As a result many of them have only a relatively small number of email addresses and no service provider can guarantee that it can locate every email address. The second challenge is that it requires recurring effort to keep the database up to date. People change their email addresses but the data sources that these service providers originally rely upon to find the email addresses often do not get updated. Therefore the service providers have to cross reference different data sources at different times to identify a person and update their records. The third challenge is that online tracking technologies can raise privacy concerns as witnessed by privacy related lawsuits against some of these commercial service providers.

An embodiment of the present disclosure provides methods to analyze an email address list to generate candidate owner names. Optionally these candidate names can be used as look up keys to search additional data sources to generate profile information. Further when analyzing a list of email addresses such an approach provides aggregated statistics for owners of the email addresses in the list. Moreover computer devices configured to carry out such methods and computer readable medium containing program code for implementing such methods are also provided.

In one embodiment provided is a method for analyzing an email address comprising a isolating the user name from the email address b extracting one or more strings from the user name which in combination represent a candidate full name of the owner of the email address c comparing each of the one or more strings to a table comprising a plurality of real world name components and for each real world name component a use frequency thereby obtaining a use frequency for each string d calculating a likelihood score for the candidate full name to be a real world full name which calculation takes the use frequencies obtained from step c as input e repeating steps b d to generate likelihood scores for a plurality of candidate full names each as a combination of different strings obtained by extracting one or more different strings from the user name and f identifying the candidate full name from the plurality of candidate full names that has the highest likelihood score as an approximate full name of the owner of the email address wherein at least one of steps a f is performed by a computer.

In one aspect one or alternatively two or more strings are extracted from the user name. In one such aspect the one or two or more strings are obtained by dividing the characters in the user name.

In one aspect the calculation of the likelihood score further employs a name recognition algorithm. In another aspect the calculation of the likelihood score further comprises increasing the likelihood score if two or more strings are separated by a special character. In some aspects the special character is a dot . or an underscore sign   .

In one aspect a likelihood score is calculated for each order of combining the strings and each of the strings is compared to a table comprising a plurality of real world name components and for each real world name component a use frequency for the name component to be used at the position corresponding to the position of the string in the combination. In one aspect the likelihood score of the candidate full name is the highest likelihood score among the likelihood scores calculated for all different orders of combining the strings.

In one aspect the method further comprises before step b removing digits and or non conventional characters from the user name.

In one aspect the method further comprises querying a profile database with the identified approximate full name wherein the profile database comprises profiles for a plurality of persons. In one aspect the query is further conducted with the domain name extracted from the email address or the name of an organization associated with the domain name. In one aspect a match between the identified approximate full name and an entry in the database further confirms the validity of the identified approximate full name.

In one aspect the method further comprises querying a demographic database with the matched profile of the identified approximate full name to obtain demographic statistics.

The method of any of the above embodiment can be applied to one or more email addresses of an email list thereby generating demographic statistics for the email list.

Some or all of the figures are schematic representations for exemplification hence they do not necessarily depict the actual relative sizes or locations of the elements shown. The figures are presented for the purpose of illustrating one or more embodiments with the explicit understanding that they will not be used to limit the scope or the meaning of the claims that follow below.

 Email address list operator as used here refers to an entity in possession of a list of email addresses and has the rights to use the email addresses for the purposes described here. An example of email address list operator is a newsletter operator that has the email addresses of its subscribers.

 Email address syntax standards as used here refer to formal syntax that email addresses have to conform to. Every email address must follow some formal email address syntax in order for an email to be handled properly. Popular email address syntax standards include SMTP and ISO X.400. An example of SMTP email address is johndoe domainname . Examples of ISO X.400 email addresses include O organization OU department CN recipients CN johndoe and O organization OU department CN recipients CN johndoe domainname .

 Domain name as used here refers to SMTP domain names defined by IETF RFC 821 and its successors. An example of domain name in the real world is ibm.com . In the above example domainname is the domain name of the email addresses.

 User name as used here refers to the part of the email address that uniquely identifies a user registered at the domain name. In the examples above johndoe is the user name of the email addresses. Email address syntax standards are thoroughly documented and designed in such a way that the user name portion can be readily extracted in an automated manner.

 Owner of an email address as used here refers to the person who uses the email address for sending and receiving emails. In the examples above John Doe is the name of the owner of the email address.

 Name component as used here refers to a component that makes up a person s name. Different cultures have different name components. For the majority of the U.S. population name components include the first name the middle name and the last name. In the examples above John and Doe are name components.

 Anonymous statistics as used here refers to statistical data that cannot be used to draw conclusion about any specific individual. For example the published U.S. Census statistics are anonymous statistics.

 Name based statistics as used here refers to statistics that can be retrieved with only one name component. One example is the U.S. 2000 Census Bureau surname list that shows the ethnic origin probability distribution of a last name in the U.S. Because it is typically not possible to uniquely identify a person with only one name component name based statistics are anonymous statistics.

 Anonymous name frequency list as used here refers to a list that can be used to determine the relative frequency of one name component. One example is the U.S. 2000 Census Bureau surname list that shows the relative frequency of a last name in the U.S. An anonymous name frequency list is one type of name based statistics.

 Naming convention as used here refers to a convention whereby name components are combined in a specific order to construct the user name of an email address. For example using the naming convention first name followed by last name a person named John Doe is assigned the email address johndoe domainname . A naming convention may abbreviate certain name components to a single letter. A naming convention may omit certain name components. Using the naming convention first name followed by last initial a person named John Doe is assigned the email address johnd domainname . In this example the last name is abbreviated and the middle name is omitted. Some naming conventions join the name components with punctuation characters like the period character. For example using the naming convention first name dot last name a person named John Doe may be assigned the email address john.doe domainname . Naming conventions also have to consider the situation where two people in the organization have substantially similar names. When there are multiple people with the exact same first name and last name in an organization a naming convention may append digits or add the middle name to the user name. For example if the email address johndoe domainname is already in use by a person John Doe the next person named John Doe may be assigned the email address johndoe2 domainname or johnsamdoe domainname where Sam is the middle name.

 Single segment naming convention as used here refers to a naming convention where name components are concatenated together without any punctuation character in between the name components so the user name consists of one single string segment with no obvious syntactic boundaries to separate the name components. For example johndoe domainname and doejohn domainname are email addresses constructed with single segment naming conventions.

 Multi segment naming convention as used here refers to a naming convention where name components are concatenated together with punctuation character in between the name components so the user name consists of multiple string segments separated by punctuation characters. For example john.doe domainname and doe.john domainname are email addresses constructed with multi segment naming conventions.

The present disclosure makes the following observation Email addresses often follow some naming conventions where the user name contains portions of the owner name. Many people voluntarily choose free personal email addresses by combining parts of their names as the user name. Most organizations including companies government departments and universities enforce rules where email addresses are assigned using one of a finite list of naming conventions.

In the case of a user name with punctuation characters i.e. the user name is constructed using a multi segment naming convention a computer can split the email address user name into string segments by the punctuation characters. The challenge is that there are several popular naming conventions with different ordering of name components and a computer cannot determine which string segment belongs to which name component. For example a computer can split the user name john.doe into John and doe but the computer cannot determine which of John and doe is the first name because the computer lacks the knowledge that John is a popular first name. In the case of a user name without punctuation characters i.e. the user name is constructed using a single segment naming convention the challenge is compounded because the string length of each name component is not obvious to a computer. For example a human being can recognize John as a popular first name and be able to split the user name johndoe into John as the first name and doe as the last name. However a computer cannot determine how to split the user name johndoe because it lacks the knowledge that John is a popular first name and the first name consists of the first four letters of the user name.

The present disclosure also makes the following observation There are anonymous name frequency lists that can confirm the validity of name components but not the identity or existence of any specific individual. Several governments make these lists readily available to the general public. For example the U.S. Census Bureau publishes a frequency list of male given names female given names and surnames covering 90 of the U.S. population from its 1990 and 2000 census. A computer can first apply all naming conventions to a user name generate all name component permutations use the anonymous name frequencies to calculate the inverse probability of each permutation and select the most likely permutations as approximations of the email address owner name with indications of the relative likelihood of each permutation. These generated names are referred to as approximate owner names for the rest of this document.

In one embodiment the present disclosure provides a method for analyzing an email address. In one aspect the method entails in a first step isolating the user name from the email address. As provided email address syntax standards are thoroughly documented and designed in such a way that the user name portion can be readily extracted in an automated manner. In one aspect for instance all characters preceding the symbol is considered the user name of the email address.

Next one or two or three or more strings are extracted from the user name which in combination represent a candidate full name of the owner of the email address. In one aspect when two or more strings are extracted the user name can simply be divided at a certain point. As described later at each iteration of the evaluation of a candidate full name comprised of name components the dividing point can be shifted to generate different permutations of strings. Extraction of the strings to represent name components can be tailored based on naming conventions which are illustrated in .

The tables in and can be customized to add or remove naming conventions to adapt to different cultures and usage patterns. The columns weight and minFNC minimum full name components are configurable parameters used in the computation of composite scores in step as described in .

Extracted string or strings which represent possible name components can be compared to a table see e.g. comprising a plurality of real world name components. Optionally the table includes for each real world name component a use frequency. By virtue of such comparison a use frequency for each string can be obtained.

Based on the use frequencies obtained from the last step the method of the present disclosure calculates a likelihood score for the candidate full name to be a real world full name.

In one aspect the calculation of the likelihood score further employs a name recognition algorithm. Name recognition systems are build with knowledge of different cultures and can analyze any email address in any country to return a score of the validity of a name as well as the relative frequency of a full name or a name component. One example is the IBM InfoSphere Global Name Management system. Like the anonymous name frequency lists these systems can confirm the validity of names or name components but not the identity or existence of any specific individual. These name recognition systems provide programmatic interfaces so that a computer can query such systems to generate a score of the name permutations generated.

Thereafter the above steps starting from extraction of strings can be repeated and likelihood scores for a plurality of candidate full names each as a combination of different strings obtained by extracting one or more different strings from the user name.

It is noted that certain email user names contain special characters such as the dot . or an underscore sign   . It is likely that such special characters are used to divide components of a name. Therefore in one aspect the calculation of the likelihood score further comprises increasing the likelihood score if the two or more strings are separated by a special character. In one aspect the special character is a dot . or an underscore sign   .

It is also recognized that even within a same culture people may at will change the order of their name components in an email address. That is a U.S. user may choose to place his first name before his last name or vise versa. Thus in one aspect a likelihood score is calculated for each order of combining the strings and each of the strings is compared to a table comprising a plurality of real world name components and for each real world name component a use frequency for the name component to be used at the position corresponding to the position of the string in the combination. Accordingly in one aspect the likelihood score of the candidate full name is the highest likelihood score among the likelihood scores calculated for all different orders of combining the strings.

Still further digits and non conventional characters are used in email user names are typically are not part of a person s name. In one aspect the method further removes digits and or non conventional characters from the user name.

As such an approximate full name of the owner of the email address can be identified as the candidate full name from the plurality of candidate full names that has the highest likelihood score.

The approximate owner names can be used for various purposes. For example if a website provides the option to enter both the first and last name and the email address during user registration the website can generate the approximate owner names from the email address to cross check with the first and last name to look for potential typing mistakes and flag them for confirmation.

The present disclosure also makes the following observation The approximate owner names can be further improved to uniquely identify a person. Many profile directories e.g. Hoover s and social networks e.g. LinkedIn provide professional profiles including full names industries affiliated organizations and job titles. These directories can be searched by the first name last name and organization name but not by the email address. An approximate email address owner name can be combined with the organization name derived from the email address domain name to search these directories. If the combination is unique enough the search will return a single profile and the identity of the owner can be resolved with any missing name component filled in from the full name of the returned profile. The attributes of all profiles found for an email address list can be aggregated and extrapolated for the entire email address list population. For example the number of people in each industry can be tabulated from the found profiles and then extrapolated. The statistical confidence level of the extrapolated results can be calculated using the number of found profiles as the statistical sample size and the number of email addresses in an email address list as the statistical population size.

In one aspect the method of the present disclosure further comprises querying a profile database with the identified approximate full name wherein the profile database comprises profiles for a plurality of persons.

In another aspect the query is further conducted with the domain name extracted from the email address or the name of an organization associated with the domain name. As each domain name must be registered with a domain registration service the organization associated with a domain name can typically be found by looking up the domain registration service s database.

In any of these aspects a match between the identified approximate full name and an entry in the database further confirms the validity of the identified approximate full name.

In another aspect the method further comprises querying a demographic database with the matched profile of the identified approximate full name to obtain demographic statistics. In yet another aspect the method further comprises querying a demographic database with the name components of the identified approximate full name to obtain demographic statistics.

The present disclosure also makes the following observation Whether the exact owner identity is resolved or not aggregated demographic statistics geographic statistics and other anonymous statistics can be estimated for the email address list population. For example the U.S. 2000 Census provides ethnic origin probabilities of a surname. If an approximate owner name includes a full last name the last name can be used as the search key to retrieve the ethnic origin distribution of the owner. In another example some census data in Great Britain provide geographical location probability distribution of a last name. If an approximate owner name includes a full last name the last name can be used as the search key to retrieve the geographic location probability distribution of the owner. The search results of all email address owner last names can be aggregated and then extrapolated for the entire email address list population. The statistical confidence level of the extrapolated results can be calculated using the number of found last names as the statistical sample size and the number of email addresses in an email address list as the statistical population size. Another example is the U.S. 1990 Census given name lists that provide the gender distribution of a given name. If an approximate owner name includes a full first name the first name can be used as the search key in the given name lists to compute the gender probability distribution. The results can be aggregated and then extrapolated to estimate the gender ratio of the entire email address list population. The statistical confidence level of the extrapolated results can be calculated using the number of found given names as the statistical sample size and the number of email addresses in an email address list as the statistical population size.

In one embodiment of the present disclosure anonymous name frequency lists are used to calculate probabilities of name components. An email address list operator submits an email address list to the system. The method extracts the user name from each email address applies every applicable naming convention and name component string length permutation on the user name to generate a list of name component combinations. For each combination generated the method searches each name component in anonymous name frequency lists. If no name component of a combination exists then the combination is considered impossible and discarded. If the name component is found in the anonymous name frequency lists the method retrieves the relative frequency of the name component and adds the name component combination to a candidate list. After every name component combination has been processed the method compares the name component frequencies of all candidates and returns the most likely candidate as the best approximation of the email address owner name. The approximate owner names are then searched in a profile directory to resolve any ambiguity. The improved owner names are then searched in a name based statistics data source to generate name based statistics. After all email addresses have been processed the accumulated profile data and name based statistics are aggregated and returned with the owner names to the email address list operator.

The advantages of the present disclosure include without limitation a much shorter time to have the system up and running. The present disclosure does not require the construction of a database of email addresses because the anonymous name frequency lists and the name recognition software systems described here are immediately available.

The advantages of the present disclosure further include without limitation the low cost to keep the system up to date. The anonymous name frequency lists in the given examples are updated infrequently and even when they are updated it is easy to update these lists using the approach of the present disclosure. The present disclosure does not require the continuous effort to look up different data sources in order to keep a database of email addresses up to date.

The advantages of the present disclosure further include without limitation the avoidance of privacy issues. The present disclosure does not require installation of any online tracking technology like web browser cookies or collection of personal information without user consent.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject disclosure. It may be evident however that the present disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the present disclosure.

List processing module provides a programmatic interface where an email address list can be submitted and a human computer interface where a human being can submit an email address list using input output devices like keyboards and displays. When list processing module receives email address list from email address list operator it parses the list into individual email addresses. Each email address is then sent as email address to email address parsing module . After processing is complete as described below owner statistics list is returned to list processing module where the list is accumulated. List processing module then sends the next email address to email address parsing module . When all email addresses of email address list have been processed list processing module copies all accumulated owner statistics list to analysis report . The profile data and the statistics data of all accumulated owner statistics list are then aggregated into summary statistics and appended to analysis report . List processing module delivers analysis report to email address list operator via a programmatic interface or a human computer interface. List processing module is now ready to receive the next email address list for processing.

Email address parsing module parses email address received from list processing module extracts the user name from the email address according to email address syntax standards and generates name combination list containing a list of name component combinations that are allowed by any of the applicable naming conventions. After all name component combinations have been generated name combination list is sent to name lookup module . Email address parsing module is described in further detail in .

Name lookup module fetches each record from name combination list and searches for each component in anonymous name frequency lists. In this embodiment anonymous name frequency lists comprise of name lists and . If none of the name components is found the name combination is rejected. If at least one name component is found a composite score is calculated using the relative frequencies of the found name components such that the higher the composite score the more likely the name combination. The computation of composite score should also consider the naming convention used by checking the naming convention ID in the name combination record and the number of name components found. The composite score and the name components are then added as one record in candidate list . After all records of name combination list have been processed candidate list is sent to candidate selection module .

Candidate selection module calculates the relative composite score of all candidates in candidate list and sorts the remaining candidates by their relative composite scores. Depending on the values in configuration table only the top candidate is selected or all candidates that meet a threshold are selected. The name components and the relative composite scores of the selected candidates are added to owner name list . After all records of candidate list have been processed owner name list is sent to profile lookup module .

Profile directory is a directory of person profiles that provides a programmatic interface to search for people by name and optionally information about an organization that the person is associated with. Hoover s professional directory is an example of profile directory . The directory often allows searching without all the name components of a person e.g. search can be performed with only the last name. Every directory provides different profile details and no directory can provide the correct profile of every person at all times. Nonetheless the information provided by these directories can provide useful insight about the email address owner.

Profile lookup module tries to eliminate ambiguity and enrich information in owner name list by using profile directory . Profile lookup module uses the name components of the owner names and the organization name derived from the email address to search for profile in profile directory . If owner name list contains multiple records for one email address profile lookup module tries every record to see if one and only one of the records produces a unique match in profile directory . If so all other records are eliminated. The profile data retrieved from profile directory are also passed in owner profile list . After all records of owner name list have been processed owner profile list is sent to statistics lookup module . If profile directory is not available profile lookup module copies all records from owner name list to owner profile list without profile data.

Statistics data source is a name based statistics data source. The purpose of using statistics data source is to generate aggregate statistics for the email address list by looking up statistics of each approximate owner name and then aggregate the statistics found. As the email address list size grows the aggregated statistics tend to be more accurate due to the law of large numbers. One example of statistics data source is the U.S. 2000 Census surname file where an ethnic origin probability distribution can be found for a last name.

Statistics lookup module receives owner profile list and uses the name components of each owner profile record to search in statistics data source . In the example of the U.S. 2000 Census surname file the last name is used to retrieve an ethnic origin probability distribution. The owner profile record is copied to owner statistics list . The ethnic origin probability distribution found is copied to the statistics data field of the record in owner statistics list . After all records of owner profile list have been processed statistics lookup module sends owner statistics list to list processing module .

If statistics data source is not available statistics lookup module handles it the same way as if no statistics is found and copies all records from owner profile list to owner statistics list without statistics data. After all records of owner profile list have been processed owner statistics list is returned to list processing module .

After all records of email address list have been processed list processing module sends analysis report to email address list operator .

The first section of analysis report comprises of information copied from owner statistics list . The profile summary section aggregates various attributes from the profile data of email address owners. The statistics summary section aggregates various attributes from the statistics data of email address owners.

Step uses the first name and last name from the owner name record and the organization name to search profile directory by using the Find Person by Keyword Search programmatic interface as shown in . The credentials to access profile directory can be provided in different ways. For example email address list operator can provide credentials when submitting email address list or computer system can have stored credentials in some configuration file. Note that owner name record may not have a full first name and full last name. If profile directory is not available step handles it the same way as when no profile is found in the directory and continues to step .

Step checks if the search returns one profile. If so the owner name record is probably valid and the found person profile is saved in a temporary location and associated with the owner name record. The organization name used in the search is also associated with the owner name record. If any name component of the owner name record is empty the corresponding name component from the found person profile is copied over to the owner name record. If the search results in no profile or multiple profiles the owner name cannot be confirmed. Any found person profile is not saved and Step copies only the information in the owner name entry to owner profile list .

After all owner name records in owner name list have been processed step checks if no owner name record is associated with profile data an empty owner profile list is returned and the profile lookup module processing is complete. Otherwise step counts the owner name records that have associated profile data. If one and only one owner name record has associated profile data step copies that owner name record and its associated profile data and organization name to owner profile list and returns an owner profile list with only one record. If multiple owner name records have associated profile data step checks if the associated profiles are the same person. If so the first owner name record and its associated profile data and organization name are copied to owner profile list which is returned in step . If multiple associated profiles belonging to different people are found all owner name records are copied to owner profile list without any associated profile. Owner profile list is then returned by step .

The flow diagram in shows that if profile directory is not available profile lookup module generates owner profile list containing information from owner name list without any profile data.

It will be appreciated by the knowledgeable reader that systems and methods of the present disclosure can be implemented on any computer network. In some aspect information exchange over the computer network is carried out through secure data communication. Methods and devices for providing secure data communication are well known in the art.

Embodiments can include program products comprising non transitory machine readable storage media for carrying or having machine executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such machine readable media may be any available media that may be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. By way of example such machine readable storage media may comprise RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which may be used to store desired program code in the form of machine executable instructions or data structures and which may be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. Combinations of the above are also included within the scope of machine readable media. Machine executable instructions comprise for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing machines to perform a certain function or group of functions.

Embodiments of the present invention have been described in the general context of method steps which may be implemented in one embodiment by a program product including machine executable instructions such as program code for example in the form of program modules executed by machines in networked environments. Generally program modules include routines programs logics objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Machine executable instructions associated data structures and program modules represent examples of program code for executing steps of the methods disclosed herein. The particular sequence of such executable instructions or associated data structures represent examples of corresponding acts for implementing the functions described in such steps.

As previously indicated embodiments of the present invention may be practiced in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers having processors. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that such network computing environments may encompass many types of computers including personal computers hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and so on. Embodiments of the invention may also be practiced in distributed and cloud computing environments where tasks are performed by local and remote processing devices that are linked either by hardwired links wireless links or by a combination of hardwired or wireless links through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

It should be noted that although the discussions herein may refer to a specific order and composition of method steps it is understood that the order of these steps may differ from what is described. For example two or more steps may be performed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Also some method steps that are performed as discrete steps may be combined steps being performed as a combined step may be separated into discrete steps the sequence of certain processes may be reversed or otherwise varied and the nature or number of discrete processes may be altered or varied. The order or sequence of any element or apparatus may be varied or substituted according to alternative embodiments. Accordingly all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the present invention. Such variations will depend on the software and hardware systems chosen and on designer choice. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the invention. Likewise software and web implementations of the present invention could be accomplished with standard programming techniques with rule based logic and other logic to accomplish the various database searching steps correlation steps comparison steps and decision steps.

Unless otherwise defined all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs.

The inventions illustratively described herein may suitably be practiced in the absence of any element or elements limitation or limitations not specifically disclosed herein. Thus for example the terms comprising including containing etc. shall be read expansively and without limitation. Additionally the terms and expressions employed herein have been used as terms of description and not of limitation and there is no intention in the use of such terms and expressions of excluding any equivalents of the features shown and described or portions thereof but it is recognized that various modifications are possible within the scope of the invention claimed.

Thus it should be understood that although the present invention has been specifically disclosed by preferred embodiments and optional features modification improvement and variation of the inventions embodied therein herein disclosed may be resorted to by those skilled in the art and that such modifications improvements and variations are considered to be within the scope of this invention. The materials methods and examples provided here are representative of preferred embodiments are exemplary and are not intended as limitations on the scope of the invention.

The invention has been described broadly and generically herein. Each of the narrower species and subgeneric groupings falling within the generic disclosure also form part of the invention. This includes the generic description of the invention with a proviso or negative limitation removing any subject matter from the genus regardless of whether or not the excised material is specifically recited herein.

In addition where features or aspects of the invention are described in terms of Markush groups those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention is also thereby described in terms of any individual member or subgroup of members of the Markush group.

All publications patent applications patents and other references mentioned herein are expressly incorporated by reference in their entirety to the same extent as if each were incorporated by reference individually. In case of conflict the present specification including definitions will control.

It is to be understood that while the disclosure has been described in conjunction with the above embodiments that the foregoing description and examples are intended to illustrate and not limit the scope of the disclosure. Other aspects advantages and modifications within the scope of the disclosure will be apparent to those skilled in the art to which the disclosure pertains.

