---

title: Impurity-induced disorder in III-nitride materials and devices
abstract: A method for impurity-induced disordering in III-nitride materials comprises growing a III-nitride heterostructure at a growth temperature and doping the heterostructure layers with a dopant during or after the growth of the heterostructure and post-growth annealing of the heterostructure. The post-growth annealing temperature can be sufficiently high to induce disorder of the heterostructure layer interfaces.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08895335&OS=08895335&RS=08895335
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08895335
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120726
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 513 924 filed Aug. 1 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to layer intermixing in heterostructure semiconductor materials and in particular to impurity induced disorder in III nitride semiconductor materials and devices.

Impurity induced layer disordering IILD or layer intermixing is a well studied phenomena in the III arsenide and III phosphide material systems but has not been conclusively identified in Ill nitride materials. See W. D. Laidig et al. 38 776 1981 D. G. Deppe and N. Holonyak Jr. 64 R93 1988 and D. G. Deppe et al. 52 1413 1988 . Normally an unintentionally doped UID heterointerface such as an AlAs GaAs is stable no Al Ga interdiffusion up to high temperatures 900 C. . See L. L. Chang and A. Koma 29 138 1976 . The introduction of impurities by diffusion implantation or during growth lowers the temperature where layer disordering can occur 500 C. for Zn in III As . See W. D. Laidig et al. 38 776 1981 . Beyond the obvious materials science interests layer disordering has many practical uses in device fabrication by using selective layer disordering for carrier and photon confinement. See K. Meehan et al. 44 428 1984 .

III nitrides are believed to be stable under standard growth and processing temperatures because of the high crystal bond strength and low diffusivity of impurities. Layer intermixing in GaN AlGaN heterostructures with no impurities is observed at temperatures of 1500 C. See S. Porowski et al. 14 11097 2002 . Other reports of layer disordering of III nitrides claim only localized intermixing in AlGaN GaN observed at line defects or with InGaN GaN heterostructures at temperatures much higher than the InGaN growth temperature making it unclear if an impurity induced layer disordering process is occurring. See A. Y. Polyakov et al. 31 384 2002 M. D. McCluskey et al. 4S1 G3.42 1999 and M. C. Y. Chan et al. 4S1 G6.25 1999 .

There is continued interest in using the large conduction band offsets 2 eV of AlGaN based heterostructures to create superlattice SL structures with near infrared intersubband energy transitions for devices such as optical switches and detectors. See N. Iizuka et al. 13 3835 2005 and D. Hofstetter et al. 83 572 2003 . Typically these heavily doped AlGaN heterostructures are grown by molecular beam epitaxy MBE to achieve the abrupt interfaces in thin 

The present invention is directed to a method of impurity induced disordering in III nitride materials and devices made therewith. A method for impurity induced layer disordering in III nitride materials can comprise growing a III nitride heterostructure at a growth temperature chosen to prevent layer disordering doping the heterostructure layers with an impurity during growth and post growth annealing the heterostructure at an annealing temperature time and carrier gas pressure that induces disorder of the heterostructure layer interfaces. A dielectric layer such as SiN SiON or SiO can be deposited on a portion of the surface of the heterostructure prior to the post growth annealing. The heterostructure can be selectively disordered when the post growth annealing conditions promote layer disordering in the portions of the heterostructure without the dielectric overlayer and the portions of the heterostructure covered by the dielectric layer are prevented from layer disordering. Alternatively the heterostructure can be selectively disordered when the post growth annealing conditions prevents layer disordering in the portions of the heterostructure without the dielectric layer of the heterostructure and the disordering is promoted in those portions covered by the dielectric layer.

Alternatively the method can comprise growing a III nitride heterostructure without an impurity to prevent layer disordering to occur during growth introducing a doping the heterostructure with an impurity after growth and post growth annealing the heterostructure at an annealing temperature time and carrier gas pressure that induces disorder of the heterostructure layer interfaces. For example the doping can comprise ion implantation. For example the doping can comprise depositing an impurity layer on the heterostructure surface and post growth annealing the heterostructure at an annealing temperature thereby diffusing the impurity into the heterostructure. A portion of the surface of the heterostructure can be covered by a dopant blocking layer such as SiN SiON SiO or photoresist after growing to prevent doping a portion of the heterostructure. The heterostructure can thereby be selectively disordered when the post growth annealing conditions promotes layer disordering of the heterostructure in the portions not covered by the dopant blocking layer and the layers under the dopant blocking layer are prevented from layer disordering.

The heterostructure can be grown by for example metal organic vapor phase epitaxy molecular beam epitaxy or vapor phase epitaxy. The III nitride heterostructure can comprise a plurality of AlGaN AlN GaN AlN GaN AlGaN InGaN GaN InGaN AlN InGaN AlGaN AlInN GaN AlInN AlN or AlInN InGaN layers. Although many impurities can be used the impurity can comprise for example silicon magnesium selenium or tellurium. The preferred dopant concentration will also depend on the particular III nitride heterostructure system and impurity but can typically be greater than 5 10cm. The growth and post growth annealing temperatures will depend on the particular III nitride heterostructure system. However the growth temperature can typically be less than 885 C. The post growth annealing temperature can typically be greater than 700 C. and more typically can be greater than 1000 C. The carrier gas can be for example N NH H or He.

The heterostructure can form one or more energy wells with defined energy levels in the conduction and valance band and disordering of the layers can shift the energy levels such that the energy separation of electron levels within the conduction band is less. Alternatively the disordering of the layers can shift the energy levels such that the energy separation of electron levels within the conduction band and the holes in the valance band is larger.

The method can be used to create devices such as optical waveguides light emitting diodes photodetectors solar cells modulators laser and amplifiers. For example an optical waveguide can comprise a waveguide layer comprising a III nitride heterostructure and at least one cladding layer on the waveguide layer the cladding layer comprising a III nitride heterostructure that is disordered to provide a higher optical index than the waveguide layer. For example Ill nitride laser can comprise a facet end that is impurity induced layer disordered.

As an example of the present invention impurity induced layer disordering was demonstrated in AlGaN AlN superlattices grown by metalorganic chemical vapor deposition. During growth at temperatures as low as 885 C. and under post growth annealing at 1000 C. in Nthe heterointerfaces of Si doped Si concentration 8 10cm superlattices exhibit layer disordering intermixing while the unintentionally doped superlattices remain stable. Shifts in the intersubband energy transitions and scanning transmission electron microscope images showing changes in the layer abruptness were used to verify layer disordering due to Si diffusion in AlGaN AlN superlattices.

This invention is directed to impurity induced disorder in III nitride materials. Impurity induced layer disordering in MOVPE grown AlGaN AlN intersubband structures with high Si concentrations Si 8 10cm is described below as an example of the present invention. Si doped and UID AlGaN AlN SLs was grown at temperatures ranging from 760 C. 1010 C. and subject to post growth annealing. Shifts in the intersubband energy transitions and changes in the layer abruptness via scanning transmission electron microscope STEM images are observed. UID SLs are essentially stable while Si doped SLs exhibit significant layer disordering verifying IILD in AlGaN AlN heterostructures via diffusion of the Si impurity at temperatures as low as 885 C.

The AlGaN AlN superlattices were grown by MOVPE in a Veeco D125 reactor at 75 torr using Hand Nas the carrier gas. Trimethylgallium trimethylaluminum and ammonia were used to grow the AlGaN alloys and silane was used as the Si dopant source. Superlattices were grown using conventional non pulsed MOVPE process on 2 m thick AlN template layers with dislocation densities of 3 10cm previously grown on 0001 c plane sapphire substrates mis oriented 0.2 toward the m plane. All samples consisted of 20 period superlattices with layer thicknesses of 13 1 and 50 5 for the AlGaN and AlN layers respectively. The structures were capped by 20 nm of AlN. UID and Si doped superlattices were grown at temperatures ranging from 760 C. 1010 C. and completed in 66 to 88 minutes. The change in growth time reflected the decrease in growth rate of the AlGaN layer as the growth temperature was raised. The Si doping was limited to the AlGaN layers and the Si concentration varied from 8 15 10cmmeasured in separate calibration layers by secondary ion mass spectrometry.

To measure the intersubband optical energy transitions waveguides were made by polishing 45 facets on 5 mm wide samples. Then using a Fourier transform infrared spectrometer the white light transmission through the sample for transverse electric TE and transverse magnetic TM light was measured. The cross section STEM samples were prepared by first thinning to 100 nm using 30 keV focused Ga ion beam and then further thinning to 60 nm using 5 keV ion beam to remove the ion beam damage from the previous step. A JOEL 2010F was used to image the samples under STEM mode.

Disordering of layer interfaces provides an explanation of the energy shift with temperature displayed in the SLs grown at 885 C. and above. The modeled conduction band plots in the insets of show as the heterointerfaces change from abrupt to graded disordered the intersubband energy transitions shift to smaller energies. Further supporting layer disordering in the Si doped SLs is X ray diffraction omega 2 theta scans about the 0002 reflection. The SL satellite peaks at the low growth temperatures of 760 C. and 835 C. span from 6 to 4 while at high temperatures of 1010 C. they span from 4 to 1 data not shown . This decrease in SL satellite peaks suggests less abrupt interfaces.

To confirm layer disordering is occurring in the high Si concentration SLs STEMs were performed on equivalently grown SL samples at 1010 C. except one is Si doped and the other is UID . The STEM images show less contrast between layers in the Si doped SL compared to the UID SL. The reduced contrast between SL layers is due to intermixing of group III elements across the AlGaN AlN heterointerfaces and is correlated with the presence of heavy Si doping. Thus impurity induced layer disordering is occurring a mechanism previously reported only in III arsenide and III phosphide heterostructures. Furthermore the STEM image of the Si doped sample shows the layers grown first i.e. closest to the substrate exhibit the least amount of contrast and hence the greatest degree of intermixing as these layers experience the longest times at growth temperature. This change in abruptness across the SL is consistent with the increased absorption FWHM with increased temperature observed in .

Impurity induced layer disordering in Si doped AlGaN AlN SLs is not a surface phenomenon occurring during growth but is a solid state process as layer disordering can also be observed with post growth annealing. shows the intersubband energy transitions of a Si doped SL sample grown at 835 C. and annealed in a rapid thermal annealer RTA at 1000 C. under atmospheric pressure in N. The annealing times are 5 10 and 20 min. The intersubband transition shifts to longer wavelengths smaller energies and become broader with increased anneal times. This red shift and broadening is consistent with a loss of interface abruptness as observed in Si doped SLs grown at higher temperatures. Additionally the absorption strength reduces with increased annealing times suggesting Si diffusion. As the Si diffuses out of the AlGaN wells to the UID AlN barriers the Fermi level lowers and fewer electrons are available for the intersubband transition. The energy shift is less in post growth annealed SLs compared to high temperature as grown SLs . The degree of impurity diffusion and layer disordering is influenced by the choice of ambient gases and overpressures as demonstrated in III arsenide materials and these conditional changes are also expected to affect III nitrides. See D. G. Deppe and N. Holonyak Jr. 64 R93 1988 . IILD in III nitrides can also be affected by different gases Nvs. NH overpressures and vacancies.

Impurity induced layer disordering in AlGaN AlN heterostructures is described above as an example of the present invention. UID AlGaN AlN heterointerfaces are stable up to 1010 C. while the highly Si doped AlGaN AlN heterointerfaces exhibit layer disordering during growth at temperatures as low as 885 C. and under post growth annealing at 1000 C. IILD is not limited to AlGaN AlN heterostructures but can be present in all III nitride alloys.

The layer disordering changes the energy bands of the heterostructure. The result of this intermixing on a quantum well QW is shown . The calculated band diagrams show a QW with abrupt interfaces not disordered and one with disordered interfaces. The calculation is for a superlattice of 14 thick AlGaN QWs with 46 thick AlN barriers where only one QW is shown. The energy tilt in the bands versus distance is due to the polarization fields in the polar III nitride material. The impurity induced layer disordering grades the composition of the heterointerfaces changing the energy levels. The bandgap energy of the abrupt QW is less than the bandgap energy of the disordered QW EE . This shift to smaller intersubband energies longer wavelengths is also shown in . The resulting energy position of the disordered QW is shifted relative to the intact QW.

IILD also changes the optical index profile of the QW. The QW shown in has an optical index n profile roughly matching the one shown in where the abrupt curve is before disordering and the disordered curve is after. The disordering grades the index and lowers the average index within the well. Therefore IILD allows for control of the optical index.

The disordering described in III nitrides above has been within the entire semiconductor structure. Selective disordering can be achieved by patterning an impurity layer on top of the semiconductor heterostructure layers and then diffusing the impurity into the semiconductor structure at elevated temperatures. Methods for selectively disordering include 1 patterning an impurity layer such as Mg or Si by evaporation and wet etching 2 implanting the dopant using photoresist as an implant mask layer and 3 growing a highly doped cap layer and then patterning and etching this cap away where one does not want the IILD to occur. After these selectively patterning the impurity on the surface it can be capped if necessary with a dielectric to protect from vacancy disordering. Then the whole sample can then be subjected to a high temperature anneal. The temperature can be chosen to effectively diffuse the impurity into the semiconductor structure down to the desired heterointerfaces such as the quantum well in a light emitting structure. Typical temperatures are 900 C. for Si.

Various new device structures can be made using impurity induced disordering in III nitride materials. An exemplary device structure is shown in to illustrate how IILD can be used to create novel devices in III nitrides. The exemplary device comprises p n junction made of wide gap and lower index material made from an impurity patterned and diffused selectively from the surface sandwiching a QW with a narrower gap and higher index material. IILD creates a wider gap lower index QW active region in the diffused areas creating a waveguide within the center stripe. IILD can also be useful for lasers. If the impurity used also creates n type layers then the stripe area also confines carrier injection where the top p type contact will only make contact to the p type layers. IILD can also be used at the facets of a III nitride laser. IILD can prevent heating of the facets because current injection will be blocked. This can lower the heat generated at the facet and improve reliability. The waveguide created in this fashion can also be used in other opto electronic devices such as light emitting diodes photodetectors solar cells modulators and amplifiers. Interfaces can also be graded in electrical devices such as HBTs and HEMTs using this method.

The present invention has been described as impurity induced disorder in III nitride materials. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

