---

title: Application service platform with access to core network information
abstract: A telecommunications network which is accessible to a user equipment () via an access node (). The access node () is connected to a gateway node (). The gateway node () may be co-located with the access node (). At the access node (), an application service platform () is provided for supporting one or more application services which are accessible to the user equipment () via the access node (). For allowing efficient provision of core network information to the application service platform (), an association is created between first context data of the user equipment () as available in the access node () and second context data of the user equipment () as available in the gateway node (). Using the association, information from the first context data and the second context data are provided to the application service platform ().
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09497677&OS=09497677&RS=09497677
owner: Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson (publ)
number: 09497677
owner_city: Stockholm
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20121015
---
The present invention relates to methods for providing an application service in a telecommunications network and to corresponding devices. The methods and devices may for example be used for enabling distributed radio access network RAN clouds in smart mobile broadband networks.

In telecommunications networks e.g. as specified by 3GPP 3Generation Partnership Project it is known to provide application services to users of the telecommunications network. Examples of such application services are Internet Protocol IP based multimedia services. One possibility is to provide the application services by application servers in a core network CN of the telecommunications network. A further possibility is to add an application service AS platform at nodes of an access network of the telecommunications network. Examples of such access nodes are nodes of a RAN of a cellular mobile telecommunications system such as a Radio Network Controller RNC of the UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN or a base station of the evolved UTRAN E UTRAN according to 3GPP LTE Long Term Evolution referred to as E UTRAN Node B eNB . Such AS platform may be implemented as an open Information Technology IT platform which can host applications provided by the operator of the telecommunications network and also applications provided by other parties.

In a typical scenario a user equipment UE connected to the telecommunications network via a given access node would access an application running on the AS platform at this access node. The AS platform could then expose useful information available at the access node to the application e.g. information on radio channel characteristics UE identifiers or the like.

Since the telecommunications network is typically equipped with a plurality of access nodes also a plurality of AS platforms may be provided. Such plurality of AS platforms may be used for providing application services in a cloud infrastructure.

Cloud computing may be defined as the provision of computing and or storage capacity as a service to a heterogeneous community of end recipients. It may allow access to fully featured applications to software development and deployment environments and to computing infrastructure assets such as network accessible data storage and processing. A cloud computing system may be deployed privately or hosted on the premises of a cloud customer.

When using the above concept providing application services in a cloud infrastructure network resources of the telecommunications network may be integrated with the cloud infrastructure. The possibility of using so called carrier grade networks enables the deployment of highly demanding applications in the cloud e.g. by providing guaranteed response times security measures and the like. Such cloud services are also denoted as carrier cloud see for example http en.wikipedia.org wiki Carrier Cloud. They may be distributed over several nodes of the provider network and may also access further services or resources outside the provider network.

However in such a system information required for providing an application service such as information on a UE requesting such service may also be distributed over several network nodes. Accordingly in the case of an AS platform at an access node information as typically available at the access node can be exposed to applications running on the AS platform but access to other information may be limited.

Accordingly there is a need for techniques which allow for providing an AS platform at an access node with enhanced access to information which can be exposed to applications running on the AS platform.

According to an embodiment of the invention a method of providing an application service in a telecommunications network is provided. The telecommunications network is accessible to a UE via an access node connected to a gateway node. According to the method an AS platform is provided at the access node. The AS platform is for supporting one or more application services which are accessible to the UE via the access node. An association is created between first context data of the UE as available in the access node and second context data of the UE as available in the gateway node. Information from the first context data and the second context data are provided to the AS platform. The gateway node may be co located with the access node.

According to a further embodiment of the invention a network node is provided. The network node comprises an access node for providing access of a UE to a telecommunications network. The access node is connected to a gateway node. Further the network node comprises an AS platform for supporting one or more application services which are accessible to the UE via the access node. The network node is configured to create an association between first context data of the UE as available in the access node and second context data of the UE as available in the gateway node and to provide information from the first context data and the second context data to the AS platform. The network node may also comprise the gateway node.

According to a further embodiment of the invention a telecommunications is provided. The telecommunications network comprises an access node for providing access of a UE to the telecommunications network an AS platform at the access node for supporting one or more application services which are accessible to the UE via the access node and a gateway node connected to the access node. At least one of the access node and the gateway node is configured to create an association between first context data of the UE as available in the access node and second context data of the UE as available in the gateway node and to provide information from the first context data and the second context data to the AS platform.

According to a further embodiment of the invention a computer program product is provided. The computer program product comprises program code to be executed by a processor of a network node thereby configuring the network node to operate in accordance with the above method.

In the following the invention will be explained in more detail by referring to exemplary embodiments and to the accompanying drawings. The illustrated embodiments relate to concepts of providing an application service in a telecommunications network. The concepts may be used for providing a distributed cloud in a RAN for example the RAN of a cellular mobile telecommunications network. For this purpose corresponding systems methods and network nodes may be implemented. In the illustrated embodiments the telecommunications network implements cellular radio access technology such as Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA UMTS or LTE. However it is to be understood that the illustrated concepts could also be implemented in other types of telecommunications network.

According to some aspects the concepts may be used to provide methods systems and network nodes by which distributed cloud services in a telecommunications network can be provided.

According to some aspects such method of providing services to a UE in a telecommunications network involves that the UE obtains access to the telecommunications network via an access node that the access node is further connected to at least one gateway node and that an association is created between the UE context data available in the access node and the UE context data available at the least one gateway node.

According to some aspects the information available from the associated UE context data may be provided to an AS platform providing one or more application services to the UE and or serving as a middleware platform for applications providing services to the UE.

According to some aspects a telecommunications network comprises an access node and at least one gateway node the access node being adapted to provide access to the telecommunications network for at least one UE. The access node and or the at least one gateway node are adapted to create an association between the UE context data available in the access node and the UE context data available at the at least one gateway node.

The telecommunications network may further comprise an AS platform which may be adapted to provide application services to the UE and or to serve as a middleware platform for applications providing services to the at least one UE the AS platform being adapted to receive information available from the associated UE context data from the access node and or the at least one gateway node. The AS platform may be comprised in or connected to the access node and or the at least one gateway node.

It may also be provided that the access node and the at least one gateway node are co located e.g. by deploying both in the same site.

According to some aspects a network node of a telecommunications network is adapted to provide services to a UE. The network node is further adapted to create an association of UE context data available in the network node with a UE context data available in a further network node. The network node may be or comprise an access node of the telecommunications network and the further network node may be or comprise a gateway node of the telecommunications network or vice versa.

The network node may further comprise an AS platform which may be adapted to provide services to the UE and or to serve as a middleware platform for applications providing services to the at least one UE wherein the application services platform is adapted to receive information available from the associated UE context data from the network node and or the further network node.

In the above aspects the telecommunications network may be a mobile telecommunications network e.g. a Public Land Mobile Network PLMN and the access node may be a radio base station of the mobile telecommunications network. In some scenarios the mobile telecommunications network may be based on UMTS WCDMA and the access node may be a NodeB or a combined NodeB and RNC. Further the mobile telecommunications network may be based on LTE and the access node may be an eNB. In such LTE scenario the at least one gateway node may for example be a Serving Gateway SGW and or a Packet Data Network Gateway PGW . In such LTE scenario and in conjunction with the method system or network nodes described above the eNB may be co located with the SGW and or PGW and an association between the UE context data in the eNB and the UE context data in the S GW and or PGW may be created. Once this association is created the information in the UE context data in the SGW and or PGW can be exposed to an AS services platform e.g. an open IT platform.

By features according to the above aspects it is possible to make various information available between network entities. Such information may be required or useful for providing certain services to a UE. For example RAN related information may per se be available in an access node e.g. an eNB and can be exposed to an AS platform e.g. an open IT platform in the eNB site. On the other hand CN related information is typically not per se available in the eNB. By creating the association between UE context data available at the access node and UE context data available at the gateway node both RAN and CN information can efficiently be made available in the access node e.g. an eNB. Thereby local applications residing in an access site to which the access node belongs can obtain this information which may be required or helpful to provide the services.

In addition the network node includes an AS platform for providing one or more application services to one or more UEs connected to the telecommunications network. The AS platform may be implemented by software structures utilizing hardware and or software structures of the base platform . The AS platform in turn may support an application environment for hosting one or more applications in the illustrated example shown as APP APP APP . Each application may be designed for providing a corresponding application service to the UEs. The applications may be provided by the operator of the telecommunications network and or by some other party. The AS platform may also connect to other network nodes or external nodes e.g. for network management and control.

As can be seen the AS platform is integrated in the network node to provide application services at the network node . In this way network and or processing load for providing the application services may be efficiently distributed in the telecommunications network.

The AS platform may be regarded as a middleware between the base platform and the applications running in the application environment. The AS platform may provide functionalities such as basic communication methods and control mechanisms e.g. allowing the application services to communicate with each other with other external applications and or with other functionalities implemented by the hardware and or software structures of the network node . In the example of the functionalities provided by the AS platform are referred to as network information services NIS network traffic services network integration services and communication services. The network traffic services functionality may for example provide routing and priority of UE traffic streams between the access node and one or more applications running on the AS platform or between the access node and Internet. The network integration services may provide interfaces to existing CN functionality relating to e.g. policy control charging and lawful legal interception. Network traffic services and network integration services may be provided for example by functionalities which are similar to those as typically implemented by a user plane gateway. The communication services may provide functionalities used for communications between applications running on the AS platform and other of the functionalities of the AS platform .

The functionality referred to as NIS has the purpose of exposing information about the network node and its connected UEs to the applications running in the application environment . The information about the network node may for example include a number of connected UEs e.g. as identified by a Radio Resource Control RRC functionality of the network node an average of transmit powers controlled by the network node an average throughput of a cell controlled by the network node an average delay of packets buffered by the network node an average High Speed HS code utilization e.g. average utilization of High Speed Packet Access HSPA channelization codes or the like. Such information about a UE may include an identifier of the UE e.g. an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI associated with the UE a Mobile Station International Subscriber Directory Number MSISDN associated with the UE a Temporary Mobile Subscriber Identity TMSI associated with the UE a Global Unique Temporary Identity GUTI of the UE an International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI of the UE or a Radio Network Temporary Identity RNTI assigned to the UE. Further such information about a UE may include radio channel information such as a RRC State indication for the UE a serving cell or neighboring cell Reference Signal Received Power RSRP or Reference Signal Received Quality RSRQ or signal to noise and or interference measure like Ec No Chip energy to Noise spectral density ratio measured by the UE a Channel Quality Indicator CQI determined by the UE a transmit power of the UE or the like. The information may be divided into RAN information as typically available at an access node e.g. an eNB or an RNC and CN information as typically available at CN nodes of the telecommunications network e.g. at a gateway node. The RAN information may include the GUTI TMSI RNTI RRC state indication serving cell RSRP RSRQ neighboring cell RSRP RSRQ Ec No ratio transmit powers average transmit powers CQI cell throughput or the like. The CN information may include the IMSI IMEI MSISDN UE IP address es information on activated bearers and related Traffic Flow Template TFT and or Quality of Service QoS parameters or the like.

By providing multiple network nodes with a structure as illustrated in a distributed cloud computing infrastructure in the RAN of the telecommunications network may be implemented thereby combining traditional cloud computing with access to additional RAN specific services e.g. through specific APIs with applications running close to or within the RAN cloud. When third party applications are being run inside the distributed cloud they can get access to high speed low latency RAN APIs that may use information in the RAN.

The distributed RAN cloud may be viewed as an advanced hosting platform or open IT platform that offers more possibilities than conventional cloud solutions. The distributed RAN cloud may offer local processing local storage and high speed access to APIs providing services from the RAN.

Various permanent UE identifiers are defined in 3GPP Technical Specification TS 23.003. As an example the definition of the IMSI is shown in . As illustrated the IMSI is composed of three parts 1 Mobile Country Code MCC consisting of three digits. The MCC identifies uniquely identifies the country of the mobile subscriber. 2 Mobile Network Code MNC consisting of two or three digits. The MNC identifies the home PLMN of the mobile subscriber. The length of the MNC which is two or three digits depends on the value of the MCC. 3 Mobile Subscriber Identification Number MSIN identifying the mobile subscriber within a PLMN. The National Mobile Subscriber Identity NMSI consists of the MNC and the MSIN.

In 3GPP TS 23.003 also the International Mobile station Equipment Identity and Software Version number IMEISV the IMEI and the MSISDN are defined.

In the Evolved Packet System EPS of LTE the permanent identities are typically only known in the CN also referred to as Evolved Packet Core EPC and the E UTRAN is typically only aware of temporary UE identities. An example of such temporary UE identity is the GUTI that uniquely identifies the MME Mobility Management Entity which allocated the GUTI and also identifies the UE within the MME that allocated the GUTI. Another example of such temporary UE identity is the S TMSI which is used for paging purposes. GUTI and S TMSI are also defined in 3GPP TS 23.003. The GUTI is allocated to the UE during the Attach procedure as defined in 3GPP TS 23.401 and the serving MME holds the association between the GUTI and the UE permanent identifier s .

The NIS functionality may aggregate such information and make the information available to the applications running in the application environment e.g. through an Application Programming Interface to facilitate usage of the information by applications from various parties. Such API could also be provided by a specific API aggregation application running in the application environment.

One example of the above applications that may be realized on the basis of the AS platform and utilizes the information provided by the network information services functionality is a Transport Control Protocol TCP proxy that changes the TCP congestion window as a function of the radio network information it gets via the NIS functionality or via an API aggregation application .

An exemplary implementation of the AS platform at a 3GPP LTE base station BS i.e. an eNB is further illustrated in . In this implementation a network node includes the BS and the AS platform AS PF . By way of example applications are illustrated as being implemented on the basis of the AS platform . Further the network node also includes a gateway node GW for carrying user plane data between the UE and the Internet . In accordance with the illustrated LTE scenario the gateway node may implement an SGW and PGW. The network node may be implemented on the basis of a common base platform as illustrated in and or on the basis of multiple co located devices. For example a device implementing the BS and the AS platform could be co located with a further device implementing the gateway node or a device implementing the BS could be co located with a further device implementing the gateway node and the AS platform . In the following co location of certain nodes is considered to cover both implementation of the nodes in the same device e.g. on the basis of a common base platform as illustrated in and implementation of the nodes in different but co located devices. In the example of the AS platform is placed in terms of network hierarchy above the interface between the PGW and the Internet referred to as SGi interface. This means that the SGW and PGW are placed below the AS platform . The SGW and PGW may also be referred to as user plane gateways.

The network node of is located at an access site i.e. at a location of the BS . Further illustrates exemplary CN nodes which are located at a primary site of the telecommunications network namely an Offline Charging System OFCS node an Online Charging System OCS node a Legal Interception LI node a Mobility Management Entity MME a Policy and Charging Rules Function PCRF a Call Session Control Function CSCF a central SGW and a central PGW . The primary site may correspond to a central switching site. At such central switching site for example peering points for connecting to the Internet may be located.

In the implementation of co locating the gateway node with the BS and the AS platform allows for efficiently using the gateway node as a decision point for selectively directing user plane data of the UE to the AS platform or to the Internet or to services provided at the primary site . Further mechanisms of the gateway node can be utilized for applying charging policy and or QoS control and or lawful interception also to the user plane data between the UE and the AS service platform . Directing data traffic to the Internet or to services provided at the primary site may occur through intermediate sites e.g. through an aggregation site a local switching site and or a routing site not illustrated in .

The network node of is located at a local switching site i.e. at a location of the RNC or at the location of the BS i.e. at the access site. Further illustrates exemplary CN nodes which are located at a primary site of the telecommunications network namely an OFCS node an OCS node an LI node a Mobile Switching Center Server MSC S a PCRF a CSCF a central SGSN and a central GGSN . The primary site may correspond to a central switching site. At such central switching site for example peering points for connecting to the Internet may be located.

In the implementation of co locating the gateway node with the RNC and the AS platform allows for efficiently using the gateway node as a decision point for selectively directing data traffic of the UE to the AS platform or to the Internet or to services provided at the primary site . Further mechanisms of the gateway node can be utilized for applying charging policy and or QoS control and or lawful interception also to the data traffic between the UE and the AS service platform . Directing data traffic to the Internet or to services provided at the primary site may occur through intermediate sites e.g. through an aggregation site a local switching site and or a routing site not illustrated in .

In the implementations of the UE may use an application service provided by one of the applications . The user plane data would then be routed to the AS platform and to the corresponding application . This application may in turn access the Internet as needed. Through the AS platform in particular through a NIS functionality as mentioned above the application may also obtain information on the UE as available from UE context data at the BS or at the RNC e.g. GUTI RNTI RRC State indication serving cell RSRP RSRQ neighboring cell RSRP RSRQ or Ec No ratio CQI UE transmit power or the like. Such information will in the following also be referred to as UE context data of the access node. As used herein the UE context data of the access node include information related to the UE which are available at the access node. The UE context data may vary from one access node to the other. The UE context data of the access node is typically radio related and may include temporary identifiers such as GUTI or RNTI.

In addition the application may also obtain information on the access node itself i.e. on the BS or the RNC . Such information may include a number of connected UEs an average transmit power an average cell throughput an average delay of buffered packets and or an average HS code utilization as mentioned above.

UE context data may also be available at other nodes e.g. at the gateway nodes . UE context data of such gateway nodes is typically related to a subscription of the UE and may include permanent identifiers such as IMSI IMEI or MSISDN. Such information may in turn allow for obtaining further information related to the UE as available through nodes of the CN or other nodes coupled to the gateway node .

For efficiently making the CN information available to an AS platform at an access node e.g. AS platform at the BS or RNC the illustrated concepts involve creating an association between UE context data of the access node and UE context data of a gateway node connected to the access node e.g. the gateway node or of the gateway node . As mentioned above the access node and the gateway node may be co located. The UE context data of the access node may include a temporary identifier of the UE e.g. a GUTI or a TMSI. The UE context data of the access node may also include radio link data of the UE e.g. RRC state indication serving cell RSRP RSRQ neighboring cell RSRP RSRQ Ec No ratio transmit power or the like. The UE context data of the gateway node may in turn include a permanent identifier of the UE e.g. the IMSI MSISDN or IMEI. The UE context data of the gateway node may also include data on bearers established by the UE and or QoS parameters applicable for the UE e.g. information on active bearers and corresponding TFT or QoS parameters.

In the implementations of the AS platform may be used for providing an execution environment for applications that benefit from a location closer to the end user. In some scenarios the AS platform may implement an open IT platform which may be used for running applications provided by various parties.

As mentioned above the gateway node may be used as a decision point for selectively directing data traffic of the UE to the AS platform or to the Internet e.g. for implementing a breakout functionality to a RAN cloud implemented by the AS platform . In such a case distributed support may be provided for lawful interception charging policy and or QoS control session continuity or mobility based on existing and deployed 3GPP mechanisms. The gateway node may provide the functionalities of the SGW and or PGW as specified by 3GPP. Further it supports exposure of information as typically available in the CN. The gateway node may be controlled using existing 3GPP and CN mechanisms. Furthermore the breakout functionality of the gateway node may also provide the possibility to let the applications on the AS platform access user data. Selected parts of the user data can be routed to these applications while other parts of the user data can be routed towards the primary site and further to the Internet .

The implementations of may also be combined e.g. by supplementing the network node of with a BS and RNC as illustrated in . In this case the network node could be further equipped with a 3G breakout functionality e.g. implemented together with the RNC . The 3G breakout functionality may be used for routing WCDMA HSPA user plane data to the SGW and PGW implemented by the gateway node .

It should be noted that the co location of the gateway node with the AS platform and access node is optional and that the association between the UE context data in the access node and the UE context data in the gateway node may be used to provide the AS platform with CN information without co locating gateway node with the AS platform and access node . In such a scenario user plane data may be delivered from the access node to the external gateway node and then to the AS platform . Also in some cases applications may exist that are not necessarily user plane based. Then it may be sufficient if the gateway node and the AS platform share the CN information.

By sending message via the BS to the MME the UE may for example trigger a Non Access Stratum NAS Attach procedure or some other procedure for establishing or modifying a connection between the UE and the telecommunications network e.g. any procedure in which a bearer for the UE is created or is modified. It is noted that it is not necessary that such procedures are initiated by the UE but could also be initiated by some network node. The message may be a UE Attach Request.

At step the MME may select the SGW and PGW as user plane gateways for the connection between the UE and the telecommunications network.

The MME may then send message to the SGW to request creation of a session. Message may be a Create Session Request of the control plane GPRS Tunnel Protocol GTP C . Message may contain CN information related to the UE e.g. UE context data available in the CN such as IMSI IMEI and or MSISDN.

At step the SGW may create or updates a context of the UE at the SGW . This may involve storing the CN information received from the MME .

The SGW may then send message to the PGW to request creation of a session. Message may include the CN information received from the MME . Message may be a GTP C Create Session Request.

The PGW may then send message to the PCRF to request QoS rules and other information. Message may be a Credit Control Request CCR message of a Diameter based protocol implemented on the Gx interface between the PGW and the PCRF . The PCRF replies by sending message to the PGW . Message may be a Credit Control Answer CCA message of the Diameter based Gx interface protocol. At step the PGW may create or update a context of the UE at the PGW . This may involve storing the CN information received from the MME and or from the PCRF . Further the PGW may allocate a user plane IP address and Tunnel Endpoint Identifier TEID of the PGW for a GTP tunnel between the SGW and the PGW . The GTP tunnel may be related to a bearer between the UE and the telecommunications network. This user plane IP address and TEID of the PGW may be stored in the UE context at the PGW . The UE context at the PGW may also contain information that was received from the SGW in message . In some scenarios creation or updating of the UE context at the PGW could also be accomplished in response to receiving message .

The PGW may then send message to the SGW . Message may include the user plane IP address and TEID of the PGW . Message may be a GTP C Create Session Response. The SGW may store the user plane IP address and TEID of the PGW in the UE context at the SGW . In addition the SGW may allocate a user plane IP address and TEID of the SGW for the GTP tunnel. This user plane IP address and TEID of the SGW may be stored in the UE context at the SGW .

The SGW may then send message to the MME . Message may be a GTP C Create Session Response. Message may include the user plane IP address and TEID of the SGW as usable for identifying the SGW as destination of uplink GTP transmissions.

The MME may then send message to the BS to initiate creation or updating of a context of the UE at the BS . Message may be an Initial Context Setup Request of the S1 interface Application Protocol S1 AP . Message may include the user plane IP address and TEID of the SGW .

At step the BS may create or update the context of the UE. This may involve storing the user plane IP address and TEID of the SGW . In this way an association between the UE context data at the BS and the UE context data at the SGW may be created. The user plane IP address and TEID of the SGW may be used as a reference to the UE context at the SGW .

With message the BS may then send an indication to the AS platform that a connection of the UE was established or modified e.g. that the UE has attached. Message may contain data from the UE context at the BS and the reference to the UE context at the SGW e.g. the user plane IP address and TEID of the SGW .

As indicated by messages the AS platform may then use the received reference to the UE context at the SGW to retrieve data from the UE context at the SGW from the SGW .

At step the AS platform may expose information from the UE context data at the BS and the UE context data at the SGW . The AS platform may also expose information which is indexed by the CN information in the UE context at the SGW e.g. the MSISDN or IP address of the UE.

The procedures of may also be extended by the AS platform requesting from the SGW a reference to the UE context at the PGW e.g. the user plane IP address and TEID of the PGW . The AS platform may then also contact the PGW to retrieve information from the UE context at the PGW . Further it should be noted that the procedures could be modified with respect to the way of conveying the UE context data of the SGW to the AS platform . For example rather than providing the reference to the UE context at the SGW to the AS platform the BS could retrieve the information from the UE context data at the SGW and send this information to the AS platform .

In the procedures of the BS may provide the AS platform with a reference to the UE context at the SGW i.e. the UE context data of the access node as provided to the AS platform include a reference to the UE context data at the gateway node which reference may the be used by the AS platform to obtain the UE context data at the gateway node. In other scenarios the SGW may provide the AS platform with a reference to the UE context at the BS i.e. the UE context data of the gateway node as provided to the AS platform include a reference to the UE context data at the access node. The AS platform may then first obtain the UE context data at the gateway node and the included reference and use this reference for obtaining information from the UE context at the access node.

Corresponding procedures are illustrated in . The procedures involve the UE the BS the SGW the PGW the AS platform the MME and the PCRF .

By sending message via the BS to the MME the UE may for example trigger a NAS Attach procedure or some other procedure for establishing or modifying a connection between the UE and the telecommunications network e.g. any procedure in which a bearer for the UE is created or is modified. It is noted that it is not necessary that such procedures are initiated by the UE but could also be initiated by some network node. The message may be a UE Attach Request.

At step the MME may select the SGW and PGW as user plane gateways for the connection between the UE and the telecommunications network.

The MME may then send message to the SGW to request creation of a session. Message may be a GTP C Create Session Request. Message may contain CN information related to the UE e.g. UE context data available in the CN such as IMSI IMEI and or MSISDN.

At step the SGW may create or updates a context of the UE at the SGW . This may involve storing the CN information received from the MME .

The SGW may then send message to the PGW to request creation of a session. Message may include the CN information received from the MME . Message may be a GTP C Create Session Request.

The PGW may then send message to the PCRF to request QoS rules and other information. Message may be a CCR message of a Diameter based protocol implemented on the Gx interface between the PGW and the PCRF . The PCRF replies by sending message to the PGW . Message may be a CCA message of the Diameter based Gx interface protocol.

At step the PGW may create or update a context of the UE at the PGW . This may involve storing the CN information received from the MME and or the PCRF . Further the PGW may allocate a user plane IP address and Tunnel Endpoint Identifier TEID of the PGW for a GTP tunnel between the SGW and the PGW . This user plane IP address and TEID of the PGW may be stored in the UE context at the PGW . The UE context at the PGW may also contain information that was received from the SGW in message . In some scenarios creation or updating of the UE context at the PGW could also be accomplished in response to receiving message .

The PGW may then send message to the SGW . Message may include the user plane IP address and TEID of the PGW . Message may be a GTP C Create Session Response. The SGW may store the user plane IP address and TEID of the PGW in the UE context at the SGW . In addition the SGW may allocate a user plane IP address and TEID of the SGW for the GTP tunnel. This user plane IP address and TEID of the SGW may be stored in the UE context at the SGW .

The SGW may then send message to the MME . Message may be a GTP C Create Session Response. Message may include the user plane IP address and TEID of the SGW as usable for identifying the SGW as destination of uplink GTP transmissions.

The MME may then send message to the BS to initiate creation or updating of a context of the UE at the BS . Message may be an Initial Context Setup Request of the S1 interface Application Protocol S1 AP . Message may include the user plane IP address and TEID of the SGW .

At step the BS may create or update the context of the UE. This may involve storing the user plane IP address and TEID of the SGW . In this way an association between the UE context data at the BS and the UE context data at the SGW may be created. The user plane IP address and TEID of the SGW may be used as a reference to the UE context at the SGW .

The BS may then send message to the MME . Message may be an S1 AP Initial Context Setup Response message. Message may include a user plane IP address and TEID of the BS for a bearer created in response to the request of message .

The MME may then send message to the SGW to indicate the user plane IP address and TEID. Message may be a GTP C Modify Session Request. The SGW may store the user plane IP address and TEID of the BS . In this way an association between the UE context data at the BS and the UE context data at the SGW may be created. The user plane IP address and TEID of the BS may be used as a reference to the UE context at the BS .

With message the SGW may then send an indication to the AS platform that a connection of the UE was established or modified e.g. that the UE has attached. Message may contain data from the UE context at the SGW and the reference to the UE context at the BS e.g. the user plane IP address and TEID of the BS .

As indicated by messages the AS platform may then use the received reference to the UE context at the BS to retrieve data from the UE context at the BS from the BS .

At step the AS platform may expose information from the UE context data at the BS and the UE context data at the SGW . The AS platform may also expose information which is indexed by the CN information in the UE context at the SGW e.g. the MSISDN or IP address of the UE.

Also the procedures of may be extended by the AS platform requesting from the SGW a reference to the UE context at the PGW e.g. the user plane IP address and TEID of the PGW . The AS platform may then also contact the PGW to retrieve information from the UE context at the PGW . Further it should be noted that the procedures could also be modified with respect to the way of conveying the UE context data of the BS to the AS platform . For example rather than providing the reference to the UE context at the BS to the AS platform the SGW could retrieve the information from the UE context data at the BS and send this information to the AS platform .

It should be noted that in the above procedures sending and retrieving certain information may be implemented by explicitly transmitting the information or by merely sending a reference to the information which can later be used by the other side to request the actual information.

In the above examples the AS platform is provided with information as typically available in the CN of a telecommunications network implementing one or more cellular radio access technologies in particular WCDMA UMTS or LTE. However the concepts may also be applied for providing the AS platform with information available from other nodes e.g nodes related to other access technologies. By way of example illustrates a scenario in which the telecommunications network also includes wireless access technology on the basis of a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN e.g. according to IEEE 802.11 in the following also referred to as Wi Fi access technology. In the exemplary network architecture of a Wi Fi user plane is integrated with the CN of cellular radio access technology and also information from a context of the UE at one or more nodes of the Wi Fi access technology may be provided to the AS platform .

Wi Fi integration as for example illustrated in may be used for enhancing user experience. As illustrated such integration may involve common authentication between 3GPP nodes and Wi Fi nodes and integration of Wi Fi user plane traffic into the CN of the cellular radio access technology. The common authentication may use automatic authentication on the basis of a Subscriber Identity Module SIM for both access technologies. The Wi Fi user plane integration allows the network operator to provide the same services like parental control or subscription based payment methods for the end users irrespective of being connected both via cellular radio access or via Wi Fi access. Different solutions for Wi Fi integration are specified in 3GPP TS 23.402.

On the S2a interface the BNG and the gateway node in particular the PGW implemented by the gateway node communicate using GTP C signalling. Accordingly Create Session Request messages Create Session Response messages Modify Session Request messages and Modify Session Response messages may be sent between the BNG and the PGW. As explained in connection with this may result in both sides holding references to the other side s IP address and TEID for the GTP tunnel. Such reference in the PGW can be used to inform the AS platform about the UE context at the BNG . For example the reference could be used by the AS to retrieve information from the UE context at the BNG .

As can be seen from the example of the AS platform may be provided with information from UE context data at a further node coupled to the gateway node. For this purpose a reference to the UE context data at the further node may be included in the UE context data at the gateway node.

As can be seen the concepts as described above may be used for efficiently providing a local AS platform at an access node with various information in particular information as typically available at CN nodes.

It is to be understood that the examples and embodiments as explained above are merely illustrative and susceptible to various modifications. For example the concepts could be used in connection with various types of telecommunications networks e.g. implementing other types of radio access technologies. Also it is to be understood that various types of access technology could be combined in the same telecommunications network e.g. LTE access nodes and UMTS GPRS access nodes as mentioned above.

Moreover it is to be understood that the above concepts may be implemented by using correspondingly designed software to be executed by one or more processors of an existing device or by using dedicated device hardware. Also the nodes as described herein may be implemented by a single device or by multiple devices e.g. a device cloud or server farm.

Accordingly several modifications will be apparent to and can be readily made by persons skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the present invention. Therefore the scope of the invention shall not be limited by the illustrations or the preferred embodiments given in the description in the form of examples.

