---

title: Methods and apparatus for partitioning wireless network cells into time-based clusters
abstract: In some embodiments, an apparatus includes a cluster partitioning module and an optimization module. The cluster partitioning module receives a first performance indicator set for a first instance of a time period set. The cluster partitioning module defines a recurring schedule set, where each time period from the recurring schedule set is associated with a performance indicator from the first performance indicator set and within a predefined range of a performance indicator associated with the remaining time periods from the recurring schedule set. The optimization module receives a second performance indicator set for a second instance of the time period set. The optimization module defines a metric value based on the second performance indicator set, and causes a change in a network implementation based on the metric value at each time period from a third instance of the time period set and from the recurring schedule set.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09258719&OS=09258719&RS=09258719
owner: Viavi Solutions Inc.
number: 09258719
owner_city: Milpitas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121107
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 557 147 filed Nov. 8 2011 and entitled Pattern Recognition and Learning Based Self Optimizing Networks which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Some embodiments described herein relate generally to Self Optimizing Networks SON and in particular to methods and apparatus for partitioning wireless SON cells into time based clusters.

Some known wireless networks implement an automated system for network optimization using SON solutions e.g. SON products and processes which adjust radio resources and network parameters to improve the overall network performance. Such SON solutions typically target different response times for various network performance indicators. Cells of such wireless networks however are typically optimized individually without being clustered based on characteristics e.g. time based traffic pattern of the network performance indicators. Thus the SON solutions used for optimization of the known wireless networks are typically not customized specifically for such clusters.

Accordingly a need exists for methods and apparatus for partitioning wireless network cells into clusters and implementing SON solutions customized for such clusters to further improve or maximize the overall network performance for the wireless networks.

In some embodiments an apparatus includes a cluster partitioning module and an optimization module. The cluster partitioning module receives a first performance indicator set for a first instance of a time period set. The cluster partitioning module defines a recurring schedule set where each time period from the recurring schedule set is associated with a performance indicator from the first performance indicator set and within a predefined range of a performance indicator associated with the remaining time periods from the recurring schedule set. The optimization module receives a second performance indicator set for a second instance of the time period set. The optimization module defines a metric value based on the second performance indicator set and causes a change in a network implementation based on the metric value at each time period from a third instance of the time period set and from the recurring schedule set.

In some embodiments a system includes a cluster partitioning module and an optimization module. The cluster partitioning module or the optimization module is implemented in at least a memory or a processing device. At a first time the cluster partitioning module is configured to receive a first set of performance indicators of at least one cell of a network for a first instance of a set of time periods. The cluster partitioning module is then configured to define a recurring schedule set including at least two time periods from the set of time periods. Each time period from the recurring schedule set is associated with at least one performance indicator from the first set of performance indicators which is within a predefined range of at least one performance indicator from the first set of performance indicators that is associated with the remaining time periods from the recurring schedule set.

At a second time after the first time the optimization module is configured to receive a second set of performance indicators of the at least one cell for a second instance of the set of time periods. The optimization module is then configured to define a metric value associated with the recurring schedule set based on each performance indicator from the second set of performance indicators that is associated with a time period from the recurring schedule set. The optimization module is further configured to send the metric value to at least one network element associated with the at least one cell. As a result the network element changes an implementation of the network based on the metric value at each time period from a third instance of the set of time periods that is included in the recurring schedule set when the metric value is associated with a network configuration change.

In some instances the optimization module is for example an antenna based SON process module a parameter based SON process module or a combined antenna and parameter based SON process module. In some instances the optimization module can be one of for example a load balancing SON process module a co channel interference SON process module a neighbor list SON process module a handover optimization SON process module or a self healing SON process module. The SON processes executed at the optimization module can be similar to the SON processes shown and described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2011 0090820 filed Oct. 16 2009 and entitled Self Optimizing Wireless Network which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Additionally in some instances the metric value is associated with for example a tilt of an antenna of a network element.

In some embodiments a non transitory processor readable medium stores code representing instructions to be executed by a processor. The code stored in the medium includes code to cause the processor to receive at a first time a first set of performance indicators of at least one cell for a first instance of a set of time periods. The code stored in the medium includes code to cause the processor to define a first recurring schedule set including at least two time periods from the set of time periods. Each time period from the recurring schedule set is associated with at least one performance indicator from the first set of performance indicators that is within a predefined range of at least one performance indicator from the first set of performance indicators and associated with the remaining time periods from the first recurring schedule set. The code stored in the medium also includes code to cause the processor to send an indication of the first recurring schedule set to a SON process module at a second time after the first time. As a result the SON process module performs a SON process for the at least one cell during each time period from a second instance of the set of time periods that is included in the first recurring schedule set. Moreover the code stored in the medium includes code to cause the processor to receive at a third time after the second time a second set of performance indicators of the at least one cell for the second instance of the set of time periods. The code stored in the medium further includes code to cause the processor to modify the first recurring schedule set based on the second set of performance indicators to define a second recurring schedule set.

As used herein a module can be for example any assembly and or set of operatively coupled electrical components and can include for example a memory a processor electrical traces optical connectors software executing in hardware and or the like. As used herein the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example the term a network optimization device is intended to mean a single network optimization device or a combination of network optimization devices.

Specifically the wireless network can be any network that enables wireless communication devices e.g. cellular phones Wi Fi enabled laptops Bluetooth devices mobile devices etc. to communicate with each other. In some embodiments the wireless network can be implemented and administered using a wireless transmission system such as radio frequency RF waves. For example the wireless network can be a cellular network that enables two cellular phones to communicate with each other. For another example the wireless network can be a Wi Fi network that enables multiple Wi Fi enabled laptops to be operatively connected. In some embodiments the wireless network can be at least a portion of for example a wireless local area network WLAN a wireless mesh network a wireless metropolitan area network MAN a wireless wide area network WAN a mobile device network e.g. a global system for mobile communications GSM network a personal communications service PCS network a radio access network RAN a long term evolution LTE network a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS network and or the like.

As shown in the wireless network includes a network optimization device operatively coupled to a network database . The network optimization device is also operatively coupled to and configured to manage one or more controllers e.g. controllers and . Each controller e.g. the controller is operatively coupled to and configured to manage one or more network elements such as base stations e.g. base stations and . A controller can be any device that is capable of sending control signals e.g. commands instructions requests etc. to the network element s controlled by that controller thus managing operations of the network element s . In some embodiments a controller can be for example a server or similar computer device. In some embodiments a controller can also be considered as a network element of the wireless network .

A network element e.g. base station controlled by a controller can be any device or infrastructure that can be wirelessly coupled to and communicate with one or more wireless communication devices e.g. subscribers to the wireless network . In some embodiments such a network element e.g. base station can be equipped with and configured to control one or more antennas e.g. the antennas and which can be used to support data communications e.g. transmit data to and or receive data from between the network element and the wireless communication devices that are distributed throughout a coverage area i.e. sector associated with that antenna. For example as shown in the antenna is used to support data communications between the base station and wireless communication devices distributed within the coverage area the antenna is used to support data communications between a base station where the antenna is located and wireless communication devices distributed within the coverage area . In some embodiments a network element e.g. base station controlled by a controller can be located at for example a cell site. In such embodiments the coverage area associated with an antenna of that network element can be referred to as a cell.

In some embodiments the connections between the network optimization device and the one or more controllers e.g. the controllers and and the network database can include for example a wireless connection a wired connection and or a combination of wireless and wired connections. Similarly the connections between each controller e.g. the controller and its associated network element s e.g. the base stations and can include for example a wireless connection a wired connection and or a combination of wireless and wired connections.

The network database can be implemented in a memory or other storage device that is part of the network optimization device or another device operatively coupled to the network optimization device . The network database can be configured to receive and store information and or data associated with the wireless network such as network statistics current network configurations and performance indicators of the wireless network . Furthermore the network database can be configured to provide the stored information and or data to the network optimization device . The information and or data can be used at the network optimization device to assist in partitioning cells of the wireless network into clusters and improving optimizing SON processes operated in the wireless network based on the clusters as described in details with respect to . While shown in as being located on a single device in some embodiments the functionality of the network database can be distributed to multiple devices e.g. multiple databases across the wireless network .

The information and or data provided from the network database to the network optimization device can include for example a set of values and or indicators that can be used to determine the performance of one or more cells of the wireless network in various aspects. The set of values and or indicators can include for example network capacity statistics e.g. total number of calls an amount of delivered data in bits a throughput measured in overall data rate Key Performance Indicators KPIs mobile level measurements cell level measurements system level measurements network metric values configuration metrics e.g. system configuration metrics device configuration metrics power indicators indications of a network alarm and or the like.

In some embodiments the KPIs provided from the network database to the network optimization device can include for example a neighbor list a dropped call rate i.e. the ratio between failed calls and a total number of calls requested a transmitted radio power traffic statistical values associated with a cell total average transmitted power e.g. in dBm uplink total noise e.g. in dBm downlink uplink load factor e.g. in percentage uplink interference noise rise e.g. in dB number of downlink uplink radio links used connection success rate e.g. in percentage average number of attempted users average number of connected users average number of used codes number of handovers of end user equipments ratio of handoff e.g. in percentage connection success downlink uplink throughput e.g. in kbps etc. In some embodiments the KPIs can include cell level KPIs e.g. statistics associated with handover and neighbor list as listed above user equipment level KPIs e.g. a signal strength indicator for a wireless communication device as well as system level KPIs e.g. number of connected users across the network .

The network optimization device can be any device configured to control and or coordinate one or more optimization processes e.g. hardware processes and or software processes executed in hardware for performing optimization of network parameters in the wireless network . In some embodiments the network optimization device can be for example a compute device a server device an application server a mobile device a workstation and or the like. As shown in the network optimization device can be directly or operatively coupled to the remaining devices within the wireless network . Specifically the network optimization device can be operatively coupled to the network elements e.g. the base stations and via one or multiple intermediate modules and or devices such as for example a controller e.g. the controllers and and or the like. In some embodiments the network optimization device can be coupled to the remaining devices of the wireless network via any suitable connecting mechanism such as for example optical connections e.g. optical cables and optical connectors electrical connections e.g. electrical cables and electrical connectors wireless connections e.g. wireless transceivers and antennas and or the like. Furthermore while shown in as a single device in some embodiments the functionality of the network optimization device can be distributed to multiple devices across the wireless network .

In some embodiments the optimization process es for performing optimization of network parameters in the wireless network can be executed at a processor of the network optimization device . is a block diagram of a processor of a network optimization device which is structurally and functionally similar to the network optimization device in . Furthermore the network optimization device can be included in a wireless network similar to the wireless network in . Although not shown in the network optimization device can include other components such as a memory a series of communication ports and or the like. In some embodiments the network optimization device can be a single physical device. In other embodiments the network optimization device can include multiple physical devices each of which can include one or multiple modules shown in and or other components not shown in of the processor .

As shown in the processor includes a cluster partitioning module and an optimization module . Although not shown in in some embodiments the processor can include other modules and or components associated with performing the optimization process such as for example a monitor module monitoring performance of network elements controlled by the network optimization a detector module detecting any malfunction or other problem at network elements controlled by the network optimization a communication module transmitting control signals to and or receiving data from network elements controlled by the network optimization and or the like. Each module in the processor can be any combination of hardware based module e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP and or software based module e.g. a module of computer code stored in memory and or executed at the processor capable of performing one or more specific functions associated with that module. The processor can be any suitable processor configured to run and or execute those modules.

The cluster partitioning module can be configured to partition cells of the wireless network into clusters based on performance indicators e.g. KPIs collected from network elements e.g. base stations similar to the base stations and in of the wireless networks. In some embodiments the cluster partitioning module can be configured to receive the performance indicators from a network database operatively coupled to the network optimization device which is similar to the network database in . In some other embodiments the cluster partitioning module can be configured to receive the performance indicators from the network elements of the wireless network. The performance indicators received at the cluster partitioning module can include performance indicators associated with resolving optimization issues such as load balancing coverage optimization capacity optimization interference reduction self healing etc. and or configuration parameters pertaining to these performance indicators.

In some embodiments in addition to the performance indicators the cluster partitioning module can be configured to receive characteristic patterns associated with the received performance indicators. Such characteristic patterns can be identified based on performance indicators previously collected from the network elements by a pattern recognition process that is executed at a device e.g. a device hosting the network database operatively coupled to the network optimization device . Specifically the characteristic patterns can be identified based on a relationship between network elements exhibiting values of the performance indicators that are the same or similar as defined by the pattern recognition process. In some other embodiments such a pattern recognition process can be executed at the network optimization device based on the performance indicators received at the network optimization device .

Based on the received performance indicators and characteristic patterns the cluster partitioning module can be configured to partition the network elements or equivalently the cells associated with the network elements into clusters. The clustering can be based on any unit of time and or space in which the performance indicators with the same or similar values can be grouped together according to certain thresholds based on the characteristic patterns. Such thresholds can be for example a throughput in a unit of time an average transmission rate a total number of dropped calls during a time period etc. In some embodiments for example the clusters can be based on time of day e.g. 3 PM to 4 PM day of week e.g. Tuesday season in the year e.g. summer geographical areas morphological areas population density contours and or the like.

In some embodiments cluster partitioning can be based on a combination of time and space considerations. That is a cluster can include a set of network elements or equivalently a set of cells associated with those network elements each of which is associated with a specific geographic location and a specific time period. For example a first cluster can include a first base station at a first geographic location for a first time period e.g. 3 PM to 4 PM of a day the first base station at the first geographic location for a second time period e.g. 6 PM to 7 PM of a day different from the first time period and a second base station at a second geographic location different from the first geographic location for the first time period a second cluster can include the first base station at the first geographic location for the second time period and the second network element at the second geographic location for the second time period. Thus a network element or equivalently a cell associated with that network element can be included in one cluster for a given time period and another cluster for a different time period.

In some embodiments clusters can include mutually exclusive network elements or overlapping network elements. In some embodiments network elements that do not specifically fit in and or follow a specific characteristic pattern of a cluster can be included in that cluster. For example a neighbor network element e.g. an immediately adjacent neighbor network element a network element within a distance etc. of a network element having the specific characteristic pattern can be included in the cluster. For another example a neighbor network element of a network element having a problem can be included in a common cluster of network elements with that problem. Such a cluster can be used to monitor the performance of a region and or to help reduce minimize any negative effects on a region that a SON process can cause by making changes to the cluster.

In some embodiments clusters can include mutually exclusive time periods or overlapping time periods. In some embodiments time periods that do not specifically fit in and or follow the characteristic pattern of a cluster can be included in that cluster. For example a preceding time period and or a time period following e.g. a time period immediately preceding or following the time period exhibiting a characteristic pattern a time period within a time range of the time period exhibiting a characteristic pattern etc. a time period having the characteristic pattern can be included in the cluster. In such an example if the characteristic pattern is detected for a time period a cluster can be defined to include an amount of time before and or after the time period along with the time period. This can help to avoid or minimize any negative effects a SON process my cause on other time periods near the time period exhibiting the characteristic pattern.

In some embodiments cluster partitions can include a single boundary. A group of sub clusters can be defined within a cluster. The clusters can be dynamic with respect to space network elements and or time frequency or period of the characteristic patterns. Specifically after the initial establishment of cluster partitions based on the received performance indicators and characteristic patterns the cluster partitioning module can be configured to continue refining the cluster partitions based on ongoing collection of performance indicators and or characteristic patterns. For example network elements can be added to and or removed from a cluster based on changing performance indicators and or characteristic patterns. Similarly additional time periods geographic areas and or network elements can be added to and or removed from a cluster based on changing performance indicators and or characteristic patterns. For another example a cluster can be split into two or more smaller clusters or can be merged with another cluster based on changing performance indicators and or characteristic patterns.

After partitioning cells into clusters the cluster partitioning module can be configured to define one or more recurring schedule sets for the network elements of the wireless network based on the partitioned clusters. In some embodiments the cluster partitioning module can be configured to define a recurring schedule set for each cluster. Such a recurring schedule set defined for a cluster includes at least one set of time periods that recur periodically based on the characteristic pattern of that cluster. In some embodiments as discussed above network elements with the same or similar performance indicators in a set of time periods can be included in a cluster. As a result the recurring schedule set defined for that cluster can include time periods from that set of time periods where each time period within the recurring schedule set is associated with the same or similar performance indicator for a network element with the performance indicators for the same or other network elements associated with the remaining time periods within the recurring schedule set. In other words each time period included in the recurring schedule set defined for the cluster is associated with a performance indicator within a predefined range of the performance indicators associated with the remaining time periods from the recurring schedule set.

For example the cluster partitioning module can define a first recurring schedule set for the first cluster illustrated above to include the first time period e.g. 3 PM to 4 PM of a day for the first base station the first time period for the second base station and the second time period e.g. 6 PM to 7 PM of a day for the first base station where each time period associated with a network element within the first recurring schedule set is associated with a dropped call rate within a predefined range e.g. between 10 and 12 . Similarly the cluster partitioning module can define a second recurring schedule set for the second cluster illustrated above to include the second time period for the first base station and the second time period for the second base station where each time period associated with a network element within the second recurring schedule set is associated with throughput within a predefined range e.g. between 10 kbits s and 12 kbits s .

In some embodiments the cluster partitioning module can define a recurring schedule set with certain limitations or constraints. For example a recurring schedule set can include one hour from 3 PM to 4 PM in each day in October only. For another example a recurring schedule set can include two hours from 7 AM to 8 AM and from 6 PM to 7 PM in each day for the next 10 days only. In some embodiments the cluster partitioning module can be configured to define more than one recurring schedule set for a cluster where one recurring schedule set is nested within another recurring schedule set. For example a combined recurring schedule set for a cluster can include one hour from 3 PM to 4 PM as an inner recurring schedule set in every Monday as an outer recurring schedule set . For another example another combined recurring schedule set for a cluster can include each Tuesday and Friday as an inner recurring schedule set in each March and October every year as an outer recurring schedule set . In some embodiments the cluster partitioning module can be configured to define more than two recurring schedule sets where one recurring schedule set is nested within another. An example of recurring schedule sets is illustrated and described with respect to below.

After defining the recurring schedule set s the cluster partitioning module can be configured to send the defined recurring schedule set to the optimization module . The optimization module can be configured to execute one or more optimization processes e.g. SON processes for the partitioned clusters. In some embodiments the optimization module can perform a learning based parameter setting process and a pattern based SON operation process. In such embodiments although not shown in the optimization module can include more than one sub module such as for example a learning based parameter setting sub module and a pattern based SON operation sub module each of which can be configured to perform the corresponding function as described below.

The optimization module or the learning based parameter setting sub module of the optimization module can be configured to learn optimal and or improved parameter setting for network elements in the partitioned clusters. In some embodiments similar to the cluster partitioning module the optimization module can receive performance indicators and or characteristic patterns associated with the network elements of a cluster. Such performance indicators and characteristic patterns can be collected or identified according to the recurring schedule set defined for that cluster. For example only the performance indicators during the time periods from the recurring schedule set are collected from the network elements in the cluster and used at the optimization module .

The optimization module or the learning based parameter setting sub module of the optimization module can then be configured to learn and or determine optimal and or improved parameter settings for the partitioned clusters. In some instances the optimization module can be configured to determine a set of optimal and or improved parameter setting for each partitioned cluster. If the cluster partitions are based on a combination of time and space boundaries the parameter settings for the corresponding cluster can change based on both the location of the network elements and the time periods associated with the network elements that are included in the cluster. Subsequently as described below with the pattern based SON operation sub module the optimization module can apply the optimal and or improved parameter settings to the corresponding network elements of the clusters. Additionally after initially learning or determining the optimal and or improved parameter setting of network elements in a cluster based on received performance indicators and characteristic patterns in some instances the optimization module can be configured to continuously refine the parameter setting based on ongoing collection of performances and characteristic patterns.

In some embodiments the time based clusters and time based cluster parameter settings can follow a nested routine. Specifically parameter settings of time based clusters changing more frequently can be executed more frequently and parameter settings of clusters changing less frequently can be superimposed on the current parameter settings. For example a change in a parameter setting of a first network element in a cluster as a result of the cluster entering a new characteristic pattern based on time and or space can be applied to the first network element while a parameter setting of a second network element in the same cluster not affected by the new characteristic pattern can remain unchanged. For example the cluster partition of network elements during the days in spring may be different from the cluster partition of network elements during the days in fall. Additionally the parameter settings for the network elements may change more rapidly during the day based on time of day clusters. On top of these changes some additional changes in the parameter settings may occur as the season changes from spring to summer etc. In summary each cluster can behave dynamically with respect to the network elements within that cluster the time periods at which that cluster is active and the period of repetition associated with that cluster.

After the cluster partitioning and cluster parameter setting phases are completed the optimization module or the pattern based SON operation sub module of the optimization module can be configured to execute one or more pattern based SON operations for the clusters based on the parameter settings determined for those clusters as well as performance indicators that are newly collected from those clusters. In some embodiments the pattern based SON operations can be executed on a per cluster basis. For example the learning based parameter setting determined for a cluster and a set of newly collected performance indicators for that cluster can be loaded into the pattern based SON operation sub module where a SON process can be executed specifically for that cluster. As a result the SON process can generate one or more parameter changes e.g. metric value s for the network elements of that cluster according to the recurring schedule set defined for that cluster. Subsequently the optimization module can be configured to generate and send one or more instruction signals including the parameter change s e.g. metric value s to the network elements of the cluster such that the parameter change s can be implemented at the corresponding network elements according to the recurring schedule set defined for the cluster.

In some embodiments for example the SON processes executed at the optimization module can be similar to the SON processes shown and described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2011 0090820 filed Oct. 16 2009 and entitled Self Optimizing Wireless Network which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Such SON processes can be an antenna based SON process a parameter based SON process or a combined antenna and parameter based SON process. Such SON processes can include for example a load balancing SON process a co channel interference SON process a neighbor list SON process a handover optimization SON process a self healing SON process and or the like. In some embodiments the parameters to be changed can be a metric associated with an antenna of a network element such as a tilt of the antenna or a parameter of other type such as a parameter used in an algorithm executed at a network element.

For example a cluster can be identified by the cluster partitioning module to include a set of 10 specific network elements from 6 AM to 10 AM. In other words a recurring schedule set including a time period from 6 AM to 10 AM for those 10 network elements can be defined for the cluster at the cluster partitioning module . Then at 6 AM a current set of parameters for the cluster can be loaded into or implemented in the 10 network elements of the cluster. A set of performance indicators can be monitored and collected from the network elements in the cluster according to the recurring schedule i.e. 6 AM to 10 AM . The collected performance indicators can then be sent to the optimization module where a SON process can be executed based on the collected performance indicators and a parameter setting determined for that cluster at the learning based parameter setting sub module of the optimization module . As a result if the SON process determines any changes for any parameter for the cluster the optimization module can send an instruction signal including the parameter changes to the network elements of the cluster. These changes can then be applied loaded or implemented at these 10 network elements according to the recurring schedule e.g. at 6 AM in next day . As such a round of optimization is completed for network elements of that cluster.

For another example the SON process may also determine changes at the beginning of each hour within the time period of the recurring schedule set e.g. at 6 7 8 9 and 10 AM for the cluster. Furthermore at 11 AM a parameter of a network element within the cluster can be changed dependent on another cluster s values because 11 AM is outside the recurring schedule for the previous cluster . The next day however changes made at 6 AM for the cluster can be based primarily on the calculations performed changes made and or observations made at 10 AM of the previous day on the cluster.

Additionally in some embodiments during the pattern based SON operations if the characteristic patterns for clusters change as a result of the operations e.g. ongoing pattern recognition and or classification executed at the cluster partitioning module and or the learning based parameter setting module as described above the corresponding cluster s can be dynamically and repeatedly redefined to reflect the modified characteristic patterns.

While shown in as being included in the processor of the network optimization device in other embodiments a cluster partitioning module or an optimization module can communicate with any other device of the wireless network via an application programming interface API of a network module and or application a network process an intermediary device and or any other suitable means. Additionally the cluster partitioning module can receive network information and or data e.g. performance indicators characteristic patterns from the network database or any other device in any suitable format such as for example text files a file format associated with a network and or the like. Similarly the optimization module can send instructions of parameter changes to network elements in any suitable means.

At the first time the cluster partitioning module of the network optimization device can be configured to receive a first set of performance indicators that are collected from the network elements during time periods from a first instance of a set of time periods. As shown in the first instance of the set of time periods includes at least time period and time period . For example the first instance of the set of time periods can include each hour e.g. 12 AM to 1 AM 1 AM to 2 AM etc. of a first day. The cluster partitioning module can be configured to receive a set of dropped call rates e.g. 10 15 for all the network elements within the wireless network which are measured for each hour of the first day.

After receiving the first set of performance indicators the cluster partitioning module can be configured to define a cluster based on the first set of performance indicators. Each network element at each time period from the cluster has a performance indicator that is from the first set of performance indicators and within a predefined range. As discussed above the cluster can be a set of network elements based on both space and time. Thus within the cluster a network element can be associated with different time periods and more than one network element can be associated with the same time period. For example the predefined range can be between a dropped call rate of 10 and a dropped call rate of 12 . The cluster partitioning module can define a cluster to include a first network element during 2 AM to 3 AM that has a dropped call rate of 10 the first network element during 5 PM to 6 PM that has a dropped call rate of 11 a second network element during 2 AM to 3 AM that has a dropped call rate of 10.5 etc.

Furthermore the cluster partitioning module can be configured to define a recurring schedule set for the cluster. Such a recurring schedule set includes recurring time periods associated with network elements which are included in the cluster. For example the recurring schedule set can include 2 AM to 3 AM and 5 PM to 6 PM for the first network element and 2 AM to 3 AM for the second network element on each day after the first day.

Performance indicators of the network elements can then be monitored and collected according to the recurring schedule set. The optimization module of the network optimization device can be configured to receive the collected performance indicators. As show in the time period associated with a first network element and the time period associated with a second network element which can be the same or different than the first network element are included in the recurring schedule set and also included in a second instance of the set of time periods. For example if the recurring schedule set includes 2 AM to 3 AM and 5 PM to 6 PM for the first network element and 2 AM to 3 AM for the second network element then performance indicators such as the dropped call rate can be collected from the first network elements for 2 AM to 3 AM and 5 PM to 6 PM on a second day after the first day and collected from the second network element for 2 AM to 3 AM on the second day. As shown in for example the time period can represent 2 AM to 3 AM on the second day for the first network element and the time period can represent 5 PM to 6 PM on the second day for the first network element.

At the second time after the first time the optimization module can be configured to receive a second set of performance indicators collected according to the recurring schedule as described above. As discussed with respect to the optimization module can then be configured to determine an optimal or improved parameter setting for the cluster and then execute a SON process to define one or more metric values for the cluster based on the determined parameter setting and the second set of performance indicators. The metric value s are defined for parameters of the network elements of the cluster to optimize or further improve the performance of those network elements. The optimization module can be configured to send an instruction signal including the metric values to the corresponding network elements such that the metric values can be implemented at those network elements. In some embodiments the metric values can be implemented at the corresponding network elements according to the recurring schedule i.e. during each time period in the future from the recurring schedule set .

For example the optimization module can receive a set of dropped call rates including a dropped call rate of 11 for the first network element during 2 AM to 3 AM on the second day a dropped call rate of 11.5 for the first network element during 5 PM to 6 PM on the second day and a dropped call rate of 12 for the second network element during 2 AM to 3 AM on the second day. Based on the data the optimization module defines a new tilt value for the antennas of the network elements in the cluster. The optimization module sends a set of signals to the network elements instructing the network elements to change their antenna tilts accordingly during each time period from the recurring schedule set in the future i.e. starting from a third day after the second day . Thus the first network element changes its antenna tilt to the new tilt value during the time period e.g. 2 AM to 3 AM on the third day and the time period e.g. 5 PM to 6 PM on the third day .

In some embodiments the network optimization device can be configured to define a cluster or equivalently a recurring schedule set and metric values for optimization of that cluster based on a single set of performance indicators. For example after receiving the first set of dropped call rates from the first day at the first time the network optimization device can be configured to define a recurring schedule set including the time periods and and define a new tilt value for the antennas of the network elements included in the cluster based on the first set of dropped call rates. As a result the new tilt value can be sent to and implemented at each corresponding network element during each time period in the future according to the recurring schedule e.g. the time periods and in the second day the time periods and in the third day etc. .

In some embodiments the network optimization device can be configured to continuously monitor the performance of the cluster. Based on the results from the monitoring the network optimization device can be configured to repeat the process described above to dynamically optimize or improve performance of the cluster and or to modify the recurring schedule set. For example the network optimization device can be configured to receive a third set of performance indicators e.g. dropped call rates from the network elements that are collected during a third instance of the set of time periods e.g. in the third day according to the recurring schedule. Similar to the process described above the network optimization device can be configured to modify parameters of the network elements and or modify the recurring schedule based on the third set of performance indicators.

In some embodiments as described above with respect to a network optimization device can define more than one recurring schedule sets such that a recurring schedule set with relatively short time periods can be nested within another recurring schedule set with relatively long time periods. For example as shown in the recurring schedule sets and include time periods that are measured using quarter of an hour as a unit e.g. 2 00 AM to 2 15 AM 5 30 PM to 5 45 PM etc. . Such recurring schedule sets can be nested within the recurring schedule set described above which includes time periods that are measured using hour as a unit e.g. 2 AM to 3 AM 5 PM to 6 PM etc. .

Additionally the recurring schedule sets nested within the previous recurring schedule set can be different from one time period of the previous recurring schedule set to another time period of the previous recurring schedule set. For example the recurring schedule set included in the time period e.g. 2 AM to 3 AM in the first day of the previous recurring schedule set can include 2 00 AM to 2 15 AM and 2 30 AM to 2 45 AM the recurring schedule set included in the time period e.g. 2 AM to 3 AM in the second day of the previous recurring schedule set can include 2 00 AM to 2 15 AM and 2 45 AM to 3 00 AM and the recurring schedule set included in the time period e.g. 2 AM to 3 AM in the third day of the previous recurring schedule set can include 2 15 AM to 2 30 AM and 2 30 AM to 2 45 AM.

At a cluster partitioning module of the network optimization device can receive at a first time a first set of performance indicators of at least one cell or equivalently at least one network element for a first instance of a set of time periods. The first set of performance indicators can be received from a network database similar to the network database in or from network elements of a wireless network that includes the network optimization device. The performance indicators can include for example KPIs collected from the network elements during the first instance of the set of time periods.

At the cluster partitioning module of the network optimization device can define a first recurring schedule set including at least two time periods from the set of time periods. Each time period from the recurring schedule set is associated with at least one performance indicator from the first set of performance indicators. Furthermore each performance indicator associated with a time period from the first recurring schedule set is within a predefined range of each other performance indicator associated with the remaining time periods from the first recurring schedule set. Thus cells associated with the corresponding time periods having the same or similar performance are associated with the common recurring schedule set or equivalently a common cluster .

At the cluster partitioning module can send an indication of the first recurring schedule set to a SON process module at a second time after the first time such that the SON process module performs a SON process for the at least one cell during each time period from the first recurring schedule set and from a second instance of the set of time periods. The SON process module can be similar to the optimization module shown and described with respect to . As a result of performing the SON process the SON process module can define one or more parameter changes and send the parameter changes e.g. via instruction signals to the cells such that the parameter changes can be implemented at the cells according to the first recurring schedule during the second instance of the set of time periods.

At the network optimization device can receive at a third time after the second time a second set of performance indicators of the at least one cell for the second instance of the set of time periods. Based on the second set of performance indicators at cluster partitioning module of the network optimization device can modify the first recurring schedule set to define a second recurring schedule set. For example the second recurring schedule set can be defined to be associated with cells associated with corresponding time periods having the same or similar performance according to the second set of performance indicators. As the second set of performance indicators may be different from the first set of performance indicators due to the parameter changes during the second instance of the set of time periods the second recurring schedule set may be different from the first recurring schedule set. Furthermore similar to the step the cluster partitioning module can send an indication of the second recurring schedule set to the SON process module at a fourth time after the third time such that the SON process module performs the SON process for the at least one cell during each time period from the second recurring schedule set and from a third instance of the set of time periods.

Some embodiments described herein relate to a computer storage product with a non transitory computer readable medium also can be referred to as a non transitory processor readable medium having instructions or computer code thereon for performing various computer implemented operations. The computer readable medium or processor readable medium is non transitory in the sense that it does not include transitory propagating signals per se e.g. a propagating electromagnetic wave carrying information on a transmission medium such as space or a cable . The media and computer code also can be referred to as code may be those designed and constructed for the specific purpose or purposes. Examples of non transitory computer readable media include but are not limited to magnetic storage media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical storage media such as Compact Disc Digital Video Discs CD DVDs Compact Disc Read Only Memories CD ROMs and holographic devices magneto optical storage media such as optical disks carrier wave signal processing modules and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and execute program code such as Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Programmable Logic Devices PLDs Read Only Memory ROM and Random Access Memory RAM devices. Other embodiments described herein relate to a computer program product which can include for example the instructions and or computer code discussed herein.

Examples of computer code include but are not limited to micro code or micro instructions machine instructions such as produced by a compiler code used to produce a web service and files containing higher level instructions that are executed by a computer using an interpreter. For example embodiments may be implemented using Java C or other programming languages e.g. object oriented programming languages and development tools. Additional examples of computer code include but are not limited to control signals encrypted code and compressed code.

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only not limitation and various changes in form and details may be made. Where methods described above indicate certain events occurring in certain order the ordering of certain events may be modified. Additionally certain of the events may be performed concurrently in a parallel process when possible as well as performed sequentially as described above. Any portion of the apparatus and or methods described herein may be combined in any combination except mutually exclusive combinations. The embodiments described herein can include various combinations and or sub combinations of the functions components and or features of the different embodiments described.

