---

title: Method, apparatus and system of screenshot grabbing and sharing
abstract: A device, method and system of screenshot grabbing and sharing comprise projecting contents on a display device connected with a communication device; and grabbing a screenshot from the contents projected on the display device, in response to a screenshot grabbing request from another communication module connected with the communication device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09514100&OS=09514100&RS=09514100
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09514100
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121008
---
An embodiment of the present invention relates to screenshots more particularly to screenshot grabbing and sharing among multiple devices.

With Intel wireless display WiDi technology contents can be shared among various devices. For example a WiDi host may project the contents on a display device connected with the WiDi host via a WiDi device. Examples of the WiDi host may comprise a computer a tablet a smart phone or other communication device. Examples of the display device may comprise a television or other big screen monitor supporting the WiDi technology. However it is usually difficult for people to use their personal devices such as smart phones tablets and or others to obtain a screenshot of interest from the contents when they watch the contents projected on the display device.

While the concepts of the present disclosure are susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific exemplary embodiments thereof have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intent to limit the concepts of the present disclosure to the particular forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives consistent with the present disclosure and the appended claims.

In the following description numerous specific details such as logic implementations opcodes means to specify operands resource partitioning sharing duplication implementations types and interrelationships of system components and logic partitioning integration choices are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It will be appreciated however by one skilled in the art that embodiments of the disclosure may be practiced without such specific details. In other instances control structures gate level circuits and full software instruction sequences have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure the invention. Those of ordinary skill in the art with the included descriptions will be able to implement appropriate functionality without undue experimentation.

References in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to effect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

Embodiments of the invention may be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof. Embodiments of the invention implemented in a computer system may include one or more bus based interconnects between components and or one or more point to point interconnects between components. Embodiments of the invention may also be implemented as instructions carried by or stored on a transitory or non transitory machine readable e.g. computer readable medium which may be read and executed by one or more processors. A machine readable medium may be embodied as any device mechanism or physical structure for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computing device . For example a machine readable medium may be embodied as read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices mini or micro SD cards memory sticks electrical signals and others.

In the drawings specific arrangements or orderings of schematic elements such as those representing devices modules instruction blocks and data elements may be shown for ease of description. However it should be understood by those skilled in the art that the specific ordering or arrangement of the schematic elements in the drawings is not meant to imply that a particular order or sequence of processing or separation of processes is required. Further the inclusion of a schematic element in a drawing is not meant to imply that such element is required in all embodiments or that the features represented by such element may not be included in or combined with other elements in some embodiments.

In general schematic elements used to represent instruction blocks may be implemented using any suitable form of machine readable instruction such as software or firmware applications programs functions modules routines processes procedures plug ins applets widgets code fragments and or others and that each such instruction may be implemented using any suitable programming language library application programming interface API and or other software development tools. For example some embodiments may be implemented using Java C and or other programming languages. Similarly schematic elements used to represent data or information may be implemented using any suitable electronic arrangement or structure such as a register data store table record array index hash map tree list graph file of any file type folder directory database and or others.

Further in the drawings where connecting elements such as solid or dashed lines or arrows are used to illustrate a connection relationship or association between or among two or more other schematic elements the absence of any such connecting elements is not meant to imply that no connection relationship or association can exist. In other words some connections relationships or associations between elements may not be shown in the drawings so as not to obscure the disclosure. In addition for ease of illustration a single connecting element may be used to represent multiple connections relationships or associations between elements. For example where a connecting element represents a communication of signals data or instructions it should be understood by those skilled in the art that such element may represent one or multiple signal paths e.g. a bus as may be needed to effect the communication.

In an embodiment the communication device may be connected with the communication device via a direct or indirect connection such as a WiFi WiFi Direct Bluetooth and or others. The communication device may or may not be connected with the display device .

A user of the communication device may watch the contents projected on the display device and request the communication device to grab and share a screenshot of the contents which the user is interested in. For example upon seeing a particular style of a handbag on the display device the user may want to know more about the handbag e.g. brand and producer and locate a store offering the handbag for sale. Using the communication device the user may request the communication device to capture and share the screenshot of the handbag. The communication device may further handle the screenshot received from the communication device either locally or externally such as through cloud services . In an embodiment the communication device may crop an image area of the handbag and send the image to the cloud for further processing.

The communication device may be embodied as without limitation a smart phone a cellular telephone a tablet a consumer electronic device a laptop computer a notebook computer a desktop computer a mobile computing system a work station a network appliance a web appliance a distributed computing system a multiprocessor system a processor based system and or any other communication device configured to request the communication device for the screenshot grabbing and sharing.

The processor of the communication device may be embodied as any type of processor capable of executing software firmware such as a microprocessor digital signal processor microcontroller or the like. The processor is illustratively embodied as a single core processor having a processor core . However in other embodiments the processor may be embodied as a multi core processor having multiple processor cores . Additionally the communication device may include additional processors having one or more processor cores .

The I O subsystem of the communication device may be embodied as circuitry and or components to facilitate input output operations with the processor and or other components of the communication device . In some embodiments the I O subsystem may be embodied as a memory controller hub MCH or northbridge an input output controller hub ICH or southbridge or platform controller hub PCH and a firmware device. In such embodiments the firmware device of the I O subsystem may be embodied as a memory device for storing Basic Input Output System BIOS data and or instructions and or other information e.g. a BIOS driver used during booting of the communication device . However in other embodiments I O subsystems having other configurations may be used. For example in some embodiments the I O subsystem may be embodied as a platform controller hub PCH . In such embodiments the memory controller hub MCH may be incorporated in or otherwise associated with the processor and the processor may communicate directly with the memory as shown by the dashed line in . Additionally in other embodiments the I O subsystem may form a portion of a system on a chip SoC and be incorporated along with the processor and other components of the communication device on a single integrated circuit chip.

The processor is communicatively coupled to the I O subsystem via a number of signal paths. These signal paths and other signal paths illustrated in may be embodied as any type of signal paths capable of facilitating communication between the components of the communication device . For example the signal paths may be embodied as any number of point to point links wires cables light guides printed circuit board traces vias bus intervening devices and or the like.

The memory of the communication device may be embodied as or otherwise include one or more memory devices or data storage locations including for example dynamic random access memory devices DRAM synchronous dynamic random access memory devices SDRAM double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory device DDR SDRAM mask read only memory ROM devices erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM devices flash memory devices and or other volatile and or non volatile memory devices. The memory is communicatively coupled to the I O subsystem via a number of signal paths. Although only a single memory device is illustrated in the communication device may include additional memory devices in other embodiments. Various data and software may be stored in the memory . For example one or more operating systems applications programs libraries and drivers that make up the software stack executed by the processor may reside in memory during execution.

The data storage may be embodied as any type of device or devices configured for the short term or long term storage of data. For example the data storage may include any one or more memory devices and circuits memory cards hard disk drives solid state drives or other data storage devices

The communication circuitry of the communication device may include any number of devices and circuitry for enabling communications between the communication device and one or more devices or networks as discussed in more detail below. The communication circuitry may be configured to use any one or more or combination thereof communication protocols to communicate such as for example a cellular communication protocol e.g. Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA a wireless network communication protocol e.g. Wi Fi WiMAX a wireless personal area network communication protocol e.g. Bluetooth a wired network communication protocol e.g. TCP IP and or other communication protocols.

In some embodiments the communication device may also include one or more peripheral devices . Such peripheral devices may include any number of additional input output devices interface devices and or other peripheral devices. For example in some embodiments the peripheral devices may include a display touch screen graphics circuitry keyboard speaker system and or other input output devices interface devices and or peripheral devices.

The communication device may be substantially similar to the communication device and include similar components which have been identified in with a common reference numbering scheme e.g. a processor a processor core a I O subsystem a memory a data storage a communication circuitry and one or more peripheral devices . As such the description provided above of the components of the communication device is equally applicable to those similar components of the communication device and is not repeated herein so as not to obscure the present disclosure. Of course it should be appreciated that in some embodiments the communication devices of the system may be dissimilar to each other. For example the communication devices and may be embodied as various types of communication devices different from each other e.g. a laptop computer a notebook computer a tablet a smart phone or other communication device and include components typically found in such corresponding communication devices.

In an embodiment the connecting module may connect the communication device with the display device either through a wired wireless direct connection or through the WiDi or the like indirect connection. The connecting module may further connect the communication device with the communication device through a wired wireless connection such as WiFi WiFi direct Bluetooth and or others. The connecting module may further register the communication device on the communication device including authenticating the communication device and or managing an authenticated device list to restrict requests of the screenshot grabbing and sharing from an unauthenticated device.

The content projecting module may project the contents from the communication device to the display device via the connection built by the connecting module such as the WiDi connection. The screenshot grabbing module may grab the screenshot from the contents that the communication device projected onto the display device e.g. in response to the request of screenshot grabbing and sharing from the communication device . In an embodiment the user of the communication device may watch the contents on the display device and through the communication device request the communication device to provide the screenshot that the user is interested in.

In an embodiment the request from the communication device may include information related to the screenshot which may help the screenshot grabbing module to grab the screenshot such as program guide programming PGP information of the content a timestamp of the request and or others. In this way the screenshot grabbing module may grab the screenshot with the timestamp from the content related to the PGP information. Examples of the PGP information may include a program title actor actress and or others. The screenshot grabbing module may further use the connecting module to send the grabbed screenshot to the communication device .

In an embodiment the connecting module may connect the communication device with the communication device through a wired wireless connection such as WiFi WiFi Direct Blue Tooth and or others. In an embodiment the connecting module may utilize a network address of the communication device displayed on the display device or the screen of the communication device to connect with the communication device .

The screenshot requesting module may generate the request of grabbing the screenshot from the contents projected on the display device which the communication device may or may not be connected with. In an embodiment the screenshot requesting module may generate the request in response to an instruction from the user of the communication device e.g. through pressing a special key on the keyboard a software grabbing button on the screen or a touch screen gesture. The screenshot requesting module may include the information related to the screenshot which may help the communication device to grab the requested screenshot such as the PGP information of the content the timestamp of the request and or others. In this way the screenshot grabbing module may grab the screenshot with the timestamp from the content related to the PGP information. Examples of the PGP information may include the program title actor actress and or others.

The screenshot handling module may handle the screenshot received from the communication device either locally or externally such as through the cloud services . For example the screenshot handling module may crop the image area of interest from the screenshot and send the image area to the cloud for further processing such as image recognition information searching and or others. The cloud may return a result of the processing to the communication device . Many technologies may be adopted for cropping the image area for example cropping the image area circled with a finger on a touch screen of the communication device as illustrated in . More details about may be provided in a later description.

Referring to the method on the left in block the connecting module or other device may connect the communication device with the display device either through a wired wireless direct connection or through the WiDi or the like indirect connection. In block the content projecting module or other device may project the contents from the communication device to the display device via the connection established in block . In block the connecting module or the other device may connect the communication device with the communication device through a wired wireless connection such as WiFi WiFi Direct Bluetooth and or others. In block the connecting module or other device may register the communication device on the communication device including authenticating the communication device and or managing an authenticated device list to restrict requests of the screenshot grabbing and sharing from an unauthenticated device.

In block the connecting module or other device may receive the request of grabbing the screenshot from the contents projected on the display device . In an embodiment the request may include the information helpful for the communication device to grab the screenshot such as the PGP information of the content the timestamp of the request and or others. Examples of the PGP information may include the program title actor actress and or others. In response to the request in block the screenshot grabbing module or other device may grab the screenshot from the contents for example the screenshot with the timestamp from the content related to the PGP information. In block the connecting module or other device may send the grabbed screenshot to the communication device .

Referring to the method on the right in block the connecting module or other device may connect the communication device with the communication device through the wired wireless connection such as WiFi WiFi direct Bluetooth and or others. In an embodiment the connecting module may utilize the network address of the communication device displayed on the display device or the screen of the communication device to connect with the communication device . In block the screenshot requesting module or other device may detect whether the user instructs to grab the screenshot form the contents projected on the display device. In an embodiment the user may watch the contents on the display device and instruct to grab the screenshot of interest through pressing the key on the keyboard or the grabbing button on the screen or the touchscreen gesture.

Upon detecting the user instruction in block the screenshot requesting module or other device may generate the request of grabbing the screenshot. In an embodiment the request may include the information related to the screenshot which may help the communication device to grab the screenshot such as the PGP information of the content the timestamp of the request and or others. For example the communication device may grab the screenshot with the timestamp from the content related to the PGP information. Examples of the PGP information may include the program title actor actress and or others. In block the connecting module or other device may send the request to the communication device through the connection established in block . In block the connecting module or other device may receive the requested screenshot from the communication device and in block the screenshot handling module or other device may handle the screenshot either locally or externally such as through the cloud services . For example the screenshot handling module may crop the image areas of interest from the screenshot and send the image areas to the cloud for image recognition and or any other processing.

While the disclosure has been illustrated and described in detail in the drawings and foregoing description such an illustration and description is to be considered as exemplary and not restrictive in character it being understood that only illustrative embodiments have been shown and described and that all changes and modifications consistent with the disclosure and recited claims are desired to be protected.

Illustrative examples of the devices systems and methods disclosed herein are provided below. An embodiment of the devices systems and methods may include any one or more and any combination of the examples described below.

In one example a communication device may comprise a content projecting module to project contents on a display device connected with the communication device and a screenshot grabbing module to grab a screenshot from the contents projected on the display device in response to a screenshot grabbing request from another communication module connected with the communication device. Additionally in an example the display device is a television. Additionally in any of the above examples the communication device further comprises a connecting module to connect the communication device with the display device via a WiDi device.

Additionally in any of the above examples the connecting module may further connect the communication device with the another communication device via WiFi. Additionally in any of the above examples the connecting module may further register the another mobile communication device on the communication device. Additionally in any of the above examples the connecting module may further send the grabbed screenshot to the another communication device.

projecting contents on a display device connected with the communication device and grabbing a screenshot from the contents projected on the display device in response to a screenshot grabbing request from another communication module connected with the communication device. Additionally in an example the display device is a television. Additionally in any of the above examples the method may comprise connecting the communication device with the display device via a WiDi device. Additionally in any of the above examples the method may further comprise connecting the communication device with the another communication device via WiFi.

Additionally in any of the above examples the method may further comprise registering the another communication device on the communication device. Additionally in any of the above examples the method may further comprise sending the grabbed screenshot to the another communication device.

In one example a communication device may comprise a screenshot requesting module to generate a request of grabbing a screenshot from a content projected from another communication device to a display device in response to an instruction from a user of the communication device and a connecting module to connect the communication device with the another communication device and send the request to the another communication device. Additionally in an example the display device is a television.

Additionally in any of the above examples the communication device is disconnected with the display device. Additionally in any of the above examples the communication device may further comprise a screenshot handling module to handle the screenshot received from the another communication device via the connecting module. Additionally in any of the above examples the screenshot grabbing request further comprises program guide programming information of the content and a timestamp of the request.

In one example a method operated by a communication device may comprise generating a request of grabbing a screenshot from contents projected from another communication device to a display device in response to an instruction from a user of the communication device and sending the request to another communication device connected with the communication device. Additionally in an example the display device is a television. Additionally in any of the above examples the communication device may be disconnected with the display device.

Additionally in any of the above examples the method may further comprise receiving the screenshot from the another communication device and handling the screenshot. Additionally in any of the above examples the screenshot grabbing request further comprises program guide programming information of the content and a timestamp of the request.

