---

title: Systems and methods for facilitating communication between mobile devices and display devices
abstract: Certain embodiments herein may include systems and methods for facilitating communication between mobile devices and display devices. According to certain embodiments, various types of connections may be established for communication between mobile devices and display devices. The type of connection may be based on numerous factors, including networks accessible to the mobile devices and display devices, capabilities of the mobile devices and display devices, and requirements associated with a software application running on a display device or on a device associated with the display device. Example connection types may involve a server intermediary which may establish a communication connection and proxy or relay content between mobile devices and display devices. Other connection types may not involve a server intermediary, for example, when a mobile device interacts with a display device to control a real-time game application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08856355&OS=08856355&RS=08856355
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 08856355
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20120509
---
The present application is a non provisional application claiming priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 484 111 entitled Control Device for Wireless Mobile to Display Device Interaction filed on May 9 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety as if fully set forth herein.

Embodiments herein relate generally to computer networking and more particularly to establishing various types of network connections to facilitate communication between mobile devices and display devices.

Display devices such as smart televisions are increasingly providing software applications that allow users to interact with smart display devices. Such applications may include real time games turn based games or applications that allow a user to share and or modify content such as images text audio or multimedia etc. as well as other applications that may be found in a typical computing device including a processor a memory and a user interface. While increasingly providing such functionality users are limited in the manner that they interact with display devices such as via controllers or other devices. For example controllers that accompany a smart device may be limited to selecting standard content presented by a display device via one or more hard buttons on the controllers. Thus the extent to which a user may interact with a display device may be limited by existing controllers. Additionally many display devices may not be equipped to handle incoming connections from other devices and therefore these display devices may be unable to establish direct real time communications with other devices. As a result of this inadequacy such display devices may have to rely on more latent communications with other devices which may be insufficient for communicating some types of content.

Some or all of the above needs and or problems may be addressed by certain embodiments of the invention. Certain embodiments may include systems and methods for facilitating communication between mobile devices and display devices. According to one embodiment there is disclosed a system including at least one memory storing computer executable instructions and at least one processor. The at least one processor is configured to execute the computer executable instructions to receive from a display device of the plurality of devices first information identifying the display device receive from a mobile device of the plurality of devices second information identifying the mobile device and at least a portion of the first information determine a type of connection between the mobile device and the display device based at least in part on at least one of the first information or the second information and establish the type of connection between the mobile device and the display device.

According to another embodiment there is disclosed one or more computer readable media storing computer executable instructions that when executed by at least one processor configure the at least one processor to perform certain operations. The operations may include receiving at a mobile device a first input identifying a display device and a second input identifying an application running on the display device connecting to the control server device wherein the connecting comprises sending to the control server device information identifying the mobile device sending the first input and the second input to a control server device receiving from a display device a connection request disconnecting from the control server device and sending from the mobile device content to the display device.

According to a further embodiment there is disclosed a method for receiving from a display device first information identifying the display device receiving from a mobile device second information identifying the mobile device and at least a portion of the first information determining a type of connection between the mobile device and the display device based at least in part on at least one of the first information or the second information and establishing the type of connection between the mobile device and the display device.

Certain implementations will now be described more fully below with reference to the accompanying drawings in which various implementations and or aspects are shown. Various aspects may however be implemented in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the implementations set forth herein. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Illustrative embodiments herein are directed to among other things systems and methods for facilitating communication between mobile devices and display devices. A mobile device such as a smart phone may modify or interact with content on a display device such as a television. For example by virtue of establishing a connection between the mobile device and the display device an image as shown on a display device may also be viewed on the mobile device. A user may modify the content on the mobile device which may in turn cause the modified content to be displayed on the display device. A mobile device in some embodiments may push content or a representation or indication thereof such as images photos or text to a display device. Other users also may use a mobile device to view and or interact with the same content and or push other content to the display device for viewing and or interaction by other users. In this way a mobile device may act as a controller of content on a display device. A connection between a mobile device and a display device may first be required before such communication may occur in certain embodiments. Such a connection may be based on various factors related to the capabilities of the mobile device and the capabilities of the display device networks to which the devices have access and or a software application that may be used to enable the communication between and or content exchange between the mobile device and the display device as non limiting examples. Certain embodiments herein are directed to establishing at least three types of connections including a cloud connection a direct connection or a location based connection each of which is discussed in greater detail below.

With any of the above connection types communication between the devices may require that the devices be uniquely identified on a network so that devices may identify and communicate with one another. Such identification may be established by a control server device in one embodiment which may mediate the connection process between mobile devices and display devices. The control server device may also determine the type of connection to be used between the devices based at least in part on various criteria. For example a cloud connection may be preferred for communication between devices on separate networks or for which real time interaction may not be critical. With a cloud connection the control server device may proxy or relay content between mobile devices and display devices. For example as a mobile device interacts with a software application on a display device content associated with the interaction may be sent from the mobile device to a server in the cloud. The one or more servers may send the content to the display device where the users may view and or interact with the content.

Similar to a cloud connection the servers in a cloud may relay content between mobile devices and display devices in association with a location based connection in which mobile devices and display devices provide their geographical coordinates. The cloud servers may calculate the proximity of display devices with respect to a mobile device requesting an application that is access to said application on a display device and connect the mobile device to a display device local or proximate to the mobile device. For example in a building with multiple displays a user may be connected to the display device closest to the mobile device though other factors such as load balancing e.g. number of users or signal strength also may be considered in addition to device proximity in selecting a display device to which the user may be connected.

Unlike the cloud connection or location based connection a direct connection may not involve one or more servers in a cloud relaying content between mobile devices and display devices. Such communication may occur directly between a mobile device and a display device. A direct connection may be preferred when the mobile device and the display device are on the same network e.g. the same WiFi network as may be determined by a control server device. In one embodiment a mobile device may host a direct connection with a display device while the display device may host the connection in another embodiment.

Each of the cloud connection the direct connection and the location based connection will be discussed in greater detail below in association with the accompanying figures. The above connection examples are non limiting. Many more types of connections involving different types of networks computing devices and criteria and or techniques for connecting mobile devices and display devices may exist in other embodiments.

As used herein the term device may refer to any computing component that includes one or more processors that can be configured to execute computer readable computer implemented or computer executable instructions. Examples of these types of devices may include smart phones personal digital assistants digital tablets digital assistants Internet appliances personal computers server computers Web servers server farms application specific circuits microcontrollers minicomputers transceivers customer premise equipment such as set top boxes kiosks or other processor based devices. The execution of suitable computer implemented instructions by one or more processors associated with various devices may form special purpose computers or other particular machines that may facilitate communication between mobile devices and display devices as described herein.

As used herein the term mobile device may refer to a portable device that may include a processor a memory and a display for enabling a user to interact with software applications running on or in association with other devices such as display devices. Example mobile devices may include but are not limited to smart phones other telephones with wireless communication capability personal digital assistants PDAs eBook readers personal computers PCs including laptop PCs and tablet PCs or any other computing device wired or wireless with network access for communicating over a private or public network such as the Internet WiFi Bluetooth or a LAN.

The term display device as used herein may refer generally to an output device for presentation of information. Such information may be received from or based on interaction with a mobile device or other device as defined herein. Example display devices may include but are not limited to televisions computer monitors e.g. connected to a desktop or laptop computer mobile phone display devices tablets projection based displays JumboTrons or any other device for displaying images and or video.

As used herein the term connection host may refer to any device that may accept incoming requests for persistent connections. Such connection hosts may include a control server device which may receive such requests from display devices and or mobile devices. A mobile device may also act as a connection host for receiving incoming connection requests from display devices. As an example a display device such as a smart television may not act to serve as a connection host but may instead rely on a mobile device e.g. in a direct connection or a control server device e.g. in a cloud connection to provide such a persistent connection. As another example an application running inside a Web browser may not be able to function as a connection host because the application s security restrictions may prevent it from accepting incoming connections. An installed application on the other hand is typically given permission to accept incoming connections and can therefore function as a connection host. In most instances the control server may be able to function as a connection host since it may be a server application running in the cloud. In some embodiments a display device may serve as a connection host and receive incoming connection requests from mobile devices.

The one or more networks may include any number of wired or wireless networks that can enable various computing devices in the example computing environment to communicate with one another. In other embodiments other networks intranets or combinations of different types of networks may be used including but not limited to the Internet intranets cable networks cellular networks landline based networks or other communication mediums connecting multiple computing devices to one another. Other embodiments may not involve a network and may for example provide features on a single device or on devices that are directly connected to one another e.g. the control server devices may be directly connected to the relay server devices .

The devices illustrated in may include one or more processors configured to communicate with one or more memory devices and various other components or devices. For example the control server device may include one or more processors that are configured to communicate with one or more memory devices one or more input output IO devices storage one or more communication connections and the data store . The processor may be implemented as appropriate in hardware software firmware or combinations thereof. Software or firmware implementations of the processor may include computer executable or machine executable instructions written in any suitable programming language to perform the various functions described herein. Processor associated with relay server device processor associated with mobile device and processor associated with display device may be the same or at least similar to the processor in one embodiment.

The memory may store program instructions that are loadable and executable on the processor as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. Depending on the configuration and type of control server device the memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. The memory associated with the relay server device the memory associated with the mobile device and the memory associated with the display device may be the same or at least similar to the memory in one embodiment.

The storage may include removable and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing devices. In some implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or ROM. The storage associated with a relay server device the storage associated with the mobile device and the storage associated with the display device may provide the same or similar functionality to the storage in one embodiment.

The memory and the storage both removable and non removable are all examples of computer readable storage media. For example computer readable storage media may include volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data.

The one or more communication connections may allow the control server devices the display devices and the mobile devices to communicate with other devices e.g. relay server devices databases external memory devices user terminals and various other devices that may exist on the one or more networks . The I O devices may enable a user to interact with the control server device . Such I O devices may include but are not limited to a keyboard a mouse a pen a voice input device a touch input device a display a camera or imaging device speakers or a printer. The communication connections associated with the relay server device the communication connections associated with the mobile device and the communication connections associated with the display device may provide the same or at least similar functionality to the communication connections in one embodiment.

The one or more data stores may store lists arrays databases flat files etc. The data stores may store information associated with connection options device capabilities connection requirements device identifiers and or other information that may facilitate implementation of the processes described herein. Connection options may include a collection of device capabilities and connection requests that may be used to determine appropriate or optimal connection methods for a device by the control server. Device capabilities may include information about a device including but not limited to how it may connect to the Internet wired and or wirelessly whether it can function as a connection host and whether its location e.g. based on geographical coordinates is known or can be determined by the device. In some aspects this information may be used by a control server device in determining appropriate or requested connection methods for a device. Connection requirements may indicate whether a software application running on a display device may require a direct connection to another device over the same network or if it is allowed to relay messages to connected devices via the connection host. For instance in many cases an application running inside a web browser may not accurately determine its location but a mobile device that has a built in global positioning service GPS chip may be able to determine its location more accurately. Additionally and or alternatively a display device that may not determine its location may be configured to receive an assigned location e.g. from a system administrator which may be used by mobile devices to locate a display device near it. The data store associated with the relay server device the data store associated with the mobile device and the data store associated with the display device may be the same or at least similar to the data store in one embodiment.

The relay server device the mobile device and the display device may include some or all of the devices or components described above in association with the control server device several of which are discussed below.

The memory of the control server device may also include an operating system and various software applications and or modules that may implement the facilitation of communication between display devices and mobile devices. Example modules may include a monitoring module and a relay server selection module . Each of these modules may be implemented as individual modules within the connection manager that may provide specific functionality associated with facilitating communication between devices. Alternatively one or more of the modules may perform all or at least some of the functionality associated with the other modules. In one embodiment the monitoring module and the relay server selection module may be part of an application programming interface API that may be installed on the control server device .

The connection manager may manage connections between mobile devices and display devices . Such management may include authenticating users e.g. via a login and password requesting access to content on a display device via a mobile device . Such management may also include establishing a connection between mobile devices and display devices . As an example the connection manager may establish such a connection by disseminating information between devices so that the devices may know how to contact and communicate with other devices. The disseminated information may include access codes that uniquely identify individual display devices . The access codes may be generated by the connection manager and sent to display devices and mobile devices requesting access to display devices . Management by the connection manager may also include determining an appropriate connection type between mobile devices and display devices e.g. cloud connection direct connection or location based connection and tracking a user s interactions with a software application. The connection manager may perform numerous other functions in other embodiments.

The monitoring module may monitor or listen for incoming connection requests from devices such as mobile devices and display devices . The monitoring module may receive various identifying information associated with connection requests such as but not limited to an Internet Protocol IP address associated with a device a geographical location of the device e.g. longitude and latitude coordinates hardware and software capabilities of the device requirements for a software application associated with the device an access code uniquely identifying a display device or other information that may facilitate communication between mobile devices and display devices as described herein. The monitoring module may store such information e.g. in storage memory data store or an external storage device as non limiting examples for access by the connection manager which as described above may analyze the information to perform various functions to facilitate communication between mobile devices and display devices .

The relay server selection module may select one or more relay server devices for relaying content between mobile devices and display devices . The one or more relay server devices may be selected based on a number of factors including but not limited to load e.g. number of concurrent users or operational performance of the relay servers. For example a relay server device having fewer concurrent users than other relay servers may be selected. As another example a relay server device that may be experiencing operational issues as may be identified from a number of dropped network packets associated with a communication connection provided by a network interface NIC card for example may not be selected in favor of another relay server device that may be associated with more reliable network communication. In addition the relay server selection module may select a different one or more relay server devices after an initial one or more relay servers have been selected. This modified selection may also be based on changes to load and operational performance or other information regarding the connection between the mobile devices and the display devices .

A relay server device may be configured to communicate with other devices on a network e.g. a control server device a mobile device and a display device . The relay server device may include a memory which may include various software applications and or modules. Example modules in the memory may include a content distribution module a reporting module and an activity tracking module . Each of these modules may be implemented as individual modules within the session manager that may provide specific functionality associated with distributing content between mobile devices and display devices . Alternatively one or more of the modules may perform all or at least some of the functionality associated with the other modules. In one embodiment the content distribution module the reporting module and the activity tracking module may be part of an API that may be installed on the relay server device .

The session manager may manage the distribution of content between mobile devices and display devices . Such management may include receiving requests e.g. from the connection manager to distribute content between mobile devices and display devices . The request may include a specified mobile device and display device between which the content may be sent as well as an application identifier identifying an application running on the specified display device that may be accessed by the specified mobile device . The mobile device and the display device may be uniquely identified by an IP address or geographic location as examples which the session manager may use to distribute the content between the devices. The session manager may also allocate memory for storing and tracking content distributed between mobile devices and display devices . For example as a user interacts with a software application the content associated with the interaction may be stored in memory allocated for the software application and subsequently tracked e.g. via the activity tracking module .

The content distribution module may distribute or relay content between mobile devices and display devices . For example the content distribution module may receive content from a mobile device and send the content to a display device or vice versa. The content distribution module may rely upon various protocols to relay information between devices. Such protocols may include but are not limited to Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP socket e.g. for client server based applications Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP e.g. for web based communications and Unix to Unix Copy UUCP File Transfer Protocol FTP or another protocol to relay content between devices. In one embodiment multiple protocols may be used when for example one or more protocols are not working properly. For example if an attempt to transfer content failed using TCP IP FTP may be used to relay the content instead. The content distribution module may monitor such failures and select a different protocol in response to detecting a failure. A corresponding application may exist on a destination device whether it be the mobile device or the display device to receive content sent via various protocols and display the content on a screen for the destination device.

The reporting module may collect various information regarding communication between mobile devices and display devices and send the information to the connection manager where the information may be analyzed and used to select for example a relay server device instead of the one currently being used. The collected information may include load balancing information such as the number of concurrent users and operational performance information that may indicate the communication reliability of a relay server device as described above the processing capability of the relay server device the amount of available memory or disk space for storing content etc.

Many more configurations for the control server device and relay server device may exist in other embodiments. In one configuration a single device with one or more modules may perform the functions described herein with respect to the control server device and the relay server device .

A mobile device may be used to view and or interact with content on a display device . Example mobile devices may include but are not limited to smart phones other telephones with wireless communication capability personal digital assistants PDAs eBook readers personal computers PCs including laptop PCs and tablet PCs or any other computing device wired or wireless with network access for communicating over a private or public network such as the Internet WiFi Bluetooth or a LAN. A mobile device may include various software applications and or modules in a memory that may enable such viewing and or interaction. For example a mobile connection module may enable a mobile device to send connection requests to other devices e.g. the control server device . In conjunction with sending a connection request a mobile device may connect to a control server device and receive information that may be used to connect to a display device . The mobile device may also receive connection requests from other devices. For example the mobile device may receive an incoming connection request from a display device e.g. as part of establishing a direct connection which will be discussed in greater detail below.

The memory may also include one or more client applications which may be used to view and or interact with content on a display device for example. In one embodiment the one or more client applications may include a web browser that may communicate with a web server e.g. on the control server device and or the relay server device to receive content from a display device . According to this embodiment the browser may include web based code that may generate a web page in mobile display including content received from a web server and user controls that may enable a user to interact with the content. In another embodiment the one or more client applications may include various applications each of which may provide specific functionality for communicating with a corresponding server application on a display device . For example the one or more client applications may perform client side functions in a client server environment to for example access mobile device information such as but not limited to accelerometer data ambient light data image sensor data audio data or global positioning system GPS data that may be used to determine a geographical location of a mobile device . The one or more client applications may send such information to a server side application where it may be processed e.g. filtered and or formatted for display at a display device . The one or more client applications may also filter and or format content that is received and displayed at a mobile device . The one or more client applications may also provide at least one authentication module or interface that may authenticate a user s access to content.

A display device may be used for presenting content e.g. via display for viewing and or interaction with devices such as mobile devices . Examples of the display device may include but are not limited to televisions computer monitors e.g. connected to a desktop or laptop computer mobile phone display devices tablets projection based displays JumboTrons or any other device for displaying images and or video. The display device may include a memory which may include a display connection module and one or more user applications . The display connection module may enable the display device to send and receive connection requests to and from other devices. In one example the display connection module may send a connection request to a mobile connection module to establish a connection e.g. a direct connection with a mobile device . According to this example the display device may be unable to receive incoming connections and may therefore rely on a mobile device e.g. via the mobile connection module to establish a connection e.g. a direct connection with a mobile device for the display device .

The memory may also include one or more user applications . A processor associated with the display device may execute computer executable instructions associated with the one or more user applications to render content associated with the user applications on the display device where users may view and or interact with the content via a mobile device . Various types of applications such as real time games turn based games or generally any application that may involve the rendering of content on a display device may exist on the display device such as a smart television. In some embodiments the one or more user applications may exist on a console device or other device not shown that may have a connection to one or more display devices which may be dumb terminals. The console device may have a connection to multiple display devices such that when one or more processors associated with the console device execute computer executable instructions associated with the one or more user applications content associated with the user applications may be rendered on each of the display devices to which the console is connected.

The one or more user applications may each have an application identifier that may uniquely identify the user applications. In one embodiment a user desiring to interact with a particular software application may enter an application identifier associated with the particular software application into a mobile device which may in turn send the application identifier to a server e.g. the control server device .

The control server device e.g. via the connection manager may perform several functions upon receiving the application identifier. For example the control server device may use the application identifier to track among other things a user s interaction with content associated with a corresponding software application e.g. via the activity tracking module . The control server device may also send a command including the application identifier to a display device or a device associated with the display device e.g. a console device as described above on which the software application may run to instruct the display device or associated device to initiate or launch the software application corresponding to the application identifier. In one embodiment the connection manager associated with the control server device may send the command to the display connection module associated with the display device to launch one or more user applications . Once a user application is launched according to one embodiment a mobile device may interact with the user application to send and receive content to and from the display device . Example applications and interaction with these applications via a mobile device are described in .

In the example embodiment in multiple mobile devices and may communicate with multiple display devices and . As described above the mobile device may effectively launch a user application on or in association with the display device e.g. a real time game and on or in association with the display device e.g. a trivia game by in part sending an application identifier associated with the real time game and trivia game to a server such as the control server device . The control server device may in turn via the connection manager in send a command including the application identifier to the display device which may include one or more processors that may execute computer executable instructions for the application associated with the user application identifier to launch or start the user application. When the trivia game and real time game are launched content associated with those applications may be displayed on a display screen associated with a device on which the user applications may be running in one embodiment. The mobile device or additionally alternatively the mobile devices and may thereafter interact with such content by receiving and manipulating the content. Such manipulations or interactions may be performed via the one or more client applications shown in associated with the mobile devices and . As the interactions are performed to modify the content the mobile device may send the modified content e.g. via a client application to the display devices and . As an example as a user moves an object e.g. a car on the display for the mobile device the object may adjust accordingly on the screen of the display device by virtue of communication between a client application and a user application as described above. Such communication may occur via a direct connection via WiFi network shown in . As another example the mobile devices and may interact with a trivia game on the display device . As users enter responses on their associated mobile devices or the entered responses may be displayed on the screen of the display device as illustrated in . The control server device may facilitate the communication between the mobile devices and display devices shown in . The facilitation may include establishing the connection and in some embodiments proxying content between mobile devices and display devices which may be provided by a relay server device .

Establishing a connection may include configuring the devices on a network e.g. mobile devices and and display devices and so that the devices may identify and communicate with other devices on the network. In one embodiment such configuration may be performed by the connection manager of the control server device . As part of the configuration devices may register with the control server device so that the devices may identify other devices available for communication. Such registration may include the mobile devices or display devices providing information that may uniquely identify them. Such information may include but is not limited to an IP address a geographical location including longitude and latitude coordinates a Media Access Control MAC address associated with a network interface card installed in a device or other unique identification. Additional information may also be provided to the control server device such as the manufacturer of the device a network carrier memory and hard disk capacity processor speeds an application identifier associated with user applications running on a device or other information that may assist the control server device in determining which type of connection e.g. cloud connection direct connection or location based connection to establish for the device. The received information may be stored e.g. at the control server device or some other device having sufficient storage capacity and accessible by one or more processors not shown in the control server device .

Establishing a connection may also include the control server device generating and sending an access code to the display devices and where the access code may be visible to users desiring to interact with the display devices and via the mobile devices and . These functions may be performed by the connection manager of the control server device in one embodiment. The access code may be generated according to various methods or techniques to ensure that it is unique for each of the display devices and . Non limiting examples of such techniques may include incrementing a numerical access code with respect to the last known access code or deriving the access code based at least in part on an IP address or a geographical location received from the respective display devices or . An access code may be stored and permanently assigned to each of the display devices and or may be regenerated each time one of the display devices or requests to host communication with mobile devices. In addition to sending the access code the connection manager of the control server device may also provide connection information such as IP address memory capacity processor speeds etc. to a device requesting communication with another device for which the control server device has such information. In some embodiments in addition to or as an alternative to sending an access code to the display devices and the control server device may broadcast an IP address for use by devices receiving such information. In this way each device may also have a unique identifier that the devices may use to identify and communicate with other devices. In one embodiment no matter which type of connection is implemented e.g. cloud connection direct connection or location based connection as will be discussed in greater detail below the control server device may be used to establish communication in the manner described above. In other embodiments the control server device may not be involved in establishing the connection.

Establishing a connection may further include the control server device using the received information in part to determine which one of the one or more relay server devices to select for relaying content between devices e.g. via the connection manager not shown of the control server device . As shown in the relay server device may be selected by the control server device to relay content between the mobile device and the display device e.g. in a cloud connection. Although only one relay server device is shown many more may exist in other embodiments. A cloud connection may be used to facilitate communication between the mobile device and the display device because the content may not need to be communicated between the devices in real time e.g. with minimal latency. In one embodiment the control server device and the relay server device may be integrated into a single device. A determination of which relay server device to select may be based at least in part on an application identifier which may indicate hardware requirements for running a software application associated with the application identifier the load or a number of concurrent sessions in use on the relay server devices operational performance indicators of the relay server devices etc. The selected relay server device may be used to proxy or relay content between mobile devices and display devices in some embodiments such as those involving a cloud or location based connection.

As a specific example a user may use mobile device to access the display device to interact with the trivia game displayed thereon. In one embodiment such interaction may occur via a cloud connection as may be determined by the control server device as described above or by a setting established by a software developer of the trivia game as non limiting examples. A cloud connection may include a number of servers running various instances in which various software applications and or modules may run. In one example servers in a cloud may include the control server device which may be a head end switch or central device for receiving and processing communication between devices in a network. With a cloud connection as a user manipulating the mobile device enters a response e.g. Response A to a trivia question displayed on the display device the relay server device may receive the response and relay it to the display device so that the response may be shown on the screen of the display device as illustrated in .

Additional users such as a user of mobile device may also participate in the trivia game and submit a response e.g. Response B to the trivia questions also displayed on the screen of display device . The connection for the mobile device however may vary in some embodiments such that optimal connections are established for each mobile device based on the mobile device s capabilities and or accessible networks as non limiting examples. In one example the mobile device may connect to the display device via a direct connection because both devices are connected to the same WiFi network . The network may be a Bluetooth or other network in other embodiments. By way of a direct connection communications between the mobile device and the display device may occur directly e.g. without proxying or relaying content between the devices by the control server device or other server intermediary. For example a direct connection between the mobile device and the display device may enable the mobile device to send Response B directly to the display device .

Another mobile device such as the mobile device may also access the display device and interact with the trivia game . Such interaction may occur for example via a location based connection. According to a location based connection communication may occur between the mobile device and the display device based on a geographic location of the devices. In one example longitude and latitude coordinates for the two devices and may be shared with the control server device . The control server device via the connection manager not shown may calculate the proximity of the display devices within a predetermined distance of mobile device and facilitate a connection between the mobile device and the nearest display device providing for example a trivia game in one embodiment. In another embodiment the control server device may present a list of available display devices along with information identifying the location of the display devices and or the content e.g. application on each for selection by a mobile device. A cloud computing arrangement which may include a control server device may be used to proxy content between the mobile device and the display device for a location based connection. With a location based connection a geographical location may be used to identify a display device instead of an access code according to one embodiment. An access code may be used in other embodiments when for example a display device may not know its geographical location.

Mobile devices may also communicate with other mobile devices in certain embodiments. According to these embodiments a mobile device may use a display device as a host for such communication. For example the mobile device may send content to the mobile device via display device . According to this example display device may act as a host e.g. receiving incoming content from mobile devices and forwarding the content to destination devices specified in the content in one example. Also as shown in the mobile device may access the display device to interact with a real time game that may require minimal latency between inputs into the mobile device and subsequent updates on the display device . In certain embodiments a direct connection as described above may be used to provide such communication.

The above examples are non limiting. Many more examples may exist in other embodiments. For example some examples may involve devices that are connected via one type of connection either cloud connection direct connection or location based connection. In other embodiments a combination of any number of these types of connections may be used. Also many other types of applications and different numbers of mobile devices display devices and control devices may exist in other embodiments.

At block a request from a mobile device to connect to a display device may be received e.g. via a connection manager . The request may include information identifying the mobile device such as its IP address and device capabilities an access code associated with the display device to which the mobile device desires to connect an application identifier identifying a software application on the display device with which the mobile device desires to interact requirements for the software application and the various networks to which the mobile device may have access as non limiting examples. At block a server e.g. the control server device may use this information to determine a type of connection for enabling communication between the mobile device and the display device.

At block a determination is made whether a direct connection is desired. A direct connection may be desired if two devices e.g. a mobile device and a display device are on the same network such as a WiFi network or Bluetooth network. Certain software applications such as real time gaming applications may require a direct connection to reduce the amount of latency that may exist in cloud based communications between mobile devices and display devices. Functions that may be performed in association with a direct connection will be discussed below in association with .

If a direct connection is not required e.g. a cloud connection or a location based connection may instead be required a server may be selected e.g. via the connection manager for relaying content between the mobile device and the display device at block . For example a server for relaying content may be selected based on a current load e.g. number of concurrent users connected to the server or on the operational performance of the server e.g. network reliability available memory available disk space etc. as non limiting examples. A connection between the mobile device and display device may be established and content may be transferred between the devices e.g. via the relay server device at block . In one embodiment a control server device e.g. control server device may include a server for relaying content between mobile devices and display devices e.g. a relay server device such as relay server device .

At block incoming connection requests may be monitored e.g. via the mobile connection module . In one configuration the mobile connection module may monitor incoming connections to establish a direct connection with a display device which may use the connection to host communication with the mobile device and other mobile devices after the connection is established. According to this configuration the display device may be a smart television that may be unable to receive incoming connection requests and therefore may be unable to establish a connection with other devices. In such instances a mobile device may receive incoming connections and establish the connection with the display device at which point bi directional communication incoming and outgoing content from both the mobile device and the display device may occur. In another example a server intermediary such as a control server device may also establish a connection for the display device. In some embodiments however the display device may be able to receive incoming connection requests and therefore may establish its own connections with other devices. Thus a mobile device relay server device or a display device may act as a connection host for communication while the other device may act as a client.

A connection request and content displayed on the connected display device may be received at block . A server e.g. control server device may send instructions to the mobile device and the display device and any other devices requesting a connection to other devices regarding pending connections. Once the devices are connected the devices may communicate with the other devices by sending content to the other devices for example. If the connection between the mobile device and the display device is a direct connection the mobile device and the display device may disconnect from the server at block . In embodiments that involve a cloud connection or location based connection the mobile device may remain connected to the server intermediary so that the mobile device may continue to communicate e.g. via communication between the session manager and the session manager module . Content may be communicated between connected mobile devices and display devices at block .

Each of the operations in may represent a sequence of operations that can be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof. In the context of software the operations represent computer executable instructions stored on one or more computer readable storage media that when executed by one or more processors perform the recited operations. Generally computer executable instructions include routines programs objects components data structures and the like that perform particular functions or implement particular abstract data types. The order in which the operations are described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described operations can be combined in any order and or in parallel to implement the process.

In addition to the types of connections described above modifications to these connections may exist in other embodiments. For example one or more mobile devices may connect to one or more display devices in any combination of the following aspects via a direct connection where devices may be connected to a single and possibly the same network via an indirect connection where devices may be connected to one or more different networks via a cloud connection proxied by a control server where devices may be connected to a single and possibly the same network via a cloud connection proxied by a control server where devices may be connected to one or more different networks or via a cloud connection proxied by a control server where mobile devices may be connected via wireless carrier networks. Various other modifications or types of connections may exist in other embodiments. For example in some aspects a cloud connection may be proxied by a control server to connect a single device to a single network.

In some aspects an additional method may provide for establishing a connection between one or more devices and one or more networks e.g. any combination of wired and or wireless networks . By way of example only there may be between one and one hundred devices attempting to connect to one network. Additionally there may be a desire for low latency communication and the sending and receiving of messages may occur at substantially the same rate.

Another method may provide for establishing a connection between one or more devices and one or more separate networks. By way of example only there may be hundreds of devices attempting to connect to separate networks such as cellular networks where low latency may be desired but a minimal amount of latency may be acceptable and the sending and receiving of messages may also occur at the same or similar rates.

A further method may provide for establishing a connection between a large group of devices e.g. thousands of devices connected to separate networks such as cellular networks where some amount of latency may be expected. By way of example only the rate of sending and receiving messages may not be expected to occur at the same rate with the expectation that receiving messages may occur in near real time.

Certain other embodiments may also be related to the present disclosure. For example the features described herein may be implemented with relation to video games. In this example a video game can utilize the aforementioned functionality to use a mobile device e.g. a cell phone or tablet PC as a game controller where the game may be displayed and or rendered on a TV or display device.

In some aspects the features described herein may also be implemented with relation to public and or private social events. For example bars or other physical gatherings may install applications on existing televisions or display devices and allow their patrons to participate by using their mobile devices to connect and interact with the television or display device that is being viewed by multiple people at the bar or gathering.

Additionally in some aspects the features described herein may be implemented with relation to restaurant ordering systems. For example a fast food chain could use the aforementioned functionality to allow customers to place orders from their mobile devices and pick up the order when it is ready. A television or other display device at the restaurant could display the sequence of orders and indicate when an order is ready by displaying it on the television or display device. Alerts may also be sent back to customers to alert them when the orders are ready.

Further in some aspects the features described herein may be implemented with relation to sports stadium or arena applications. For example a stadium arena or other large gathering could allow users to connect and interact with large display devices e.g. a JumboTron or other display device large enough to be seen by many people at the same place . In this example filters may be applied to keep users from displaying inappropriate or offensive material. For instance a filter may be automatic such as a list of words that will not be displayed or it may pass all messages through a moderator who screens user comments.

Many modifications and other implementations of the disclosure set forth herein will be apparent having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the disclosure is not to be limited to the specific implementations or examples disclosed and that modifications and other implementations are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only to facilitate description herein and not for purposes of limitation.

