---

title: Cross-channel conversations with context aware transition between channels
abstract: A method for engaging in cross-channel communication between an agent and a user of a contact center, the method including: engaging the user in a first communication session via a first communication channel; providing the user a link to a second communication channel; receiving actuation of the link; retrieving data associated with the first communication session in response to actuation of the link; and engaging the user in a second communication session via the second communication channel, wherein the second communication session is associated with the retrieved data associated with the first communication session.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09300482&OS=09300482&RS=09300482
owner: GENESYS TELECOMMUNICATIONS LABORATORIES, INC.
number: 09300482
owner_city: Daly City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121207
---
Embodiments of the present invention are directed to systems and methods for operating contact centers and more particularly to systems and methods for contact centers to monitor the social media landscape and to engage with customers via social media channels.

Social media is gaining more and more prevalence in the business landscape with significant consequences for the businesses community. Online social media sites like Facebook and Twitter each have a large membership base. A public post by a member of one of these social sites can be quickly shared and viewed by many users online. This has significant implications for business marketing and brand management. A satisfied customer can help promote a service or product by posting a glowing review online or negatively impact a business via a negative comment.

Accordingly what is desired is a system and method that allows a business to monitor the social media landscape for posts mentions conversations blogs and other chatter generally referred to as posts or social media interactions about the business to determine whether the business is to respond to such posts by for example engaging in conversation with the authors of such posts. To facilitate such engagement it is further desired for the system and method to enable the business to interact with an author of a post via the same social media channel and to switch to another media channel where it would be more desirable to continue the interaction via the different media channel. However customer contact centers often do not have access to users social media identifiers e.g. Twitter handle Facebook ID or the like and thus there is no link between such social media identifiers and information typically stored in a customer relation database e.g. customer s account number email address phone number and the like . Accordingly it is desirable to make the link between the original social media interaction and the new interaction when switching to the new interaction channel.

According to one embodiment a method for engaging in cross channel communication between an agent and a user of a contact center the method including engaging the user in a first communication session via a first communication channel providing the user a link to a second communication channel receiving actuation of the link retrieving data associated with the first communication session in response to actuation of the link and engaging the user in a second communication session via the second communication channel wherein the second communication session is associated with the retrieved data associated with the first communication session.

According to one embodiment the agent engaged with the user in the first communication session is same as the agent engaged with the user in the second communication session.

According to one embodiment the link contains information identifying the first communication session.

According to one embodiment the engaging is further performed by limiting the number of times the link may be accessed.

According to one embodiment the engaging is further performed by requesting account verification information from the user upon initializing the second communication session.

According to one embodiment a system for engaging in cross channel communication between an agent and a user of a contact center the system including a processors and a memory wherein the memory has stored thereon instructions that when executed by the processor cause the processor to engage the user in a first communication session via a first communication channel provide the user a link to a second communication channel receive actuation of the link retrieve data associated with the first communication session in response to actuation of the link and engage the user in a second communication session via the second communication channel wherein the second communication session is associated with the retrieved data associated with the first communication session.

According to one embodiment the agent engaged with the user in the first communication session is same as the agent engaged with the user in the second communication session.

According to one embodiment the link contains information identifying the first communication session.

According to one embodiment the link is associated with a timestamp identifying a period during which the link may be accessed.

According to one embodiment the instructions further cause the processor to limit the number of times the link may be accessed.

As is readily apparent providing a business the capability to monitor the social media landscape for messages and comments that are relevant to the business s products and brand and enabling it to engage authors of such posts through social media tools may allow the business to improve its brand recognition and reputation online and potentially limit the effect of online posts that may tarnish its brand image.

As a person of skill in the art will appreciate enabling an agent to seamlessly communicate across channels while preserving a link to the original message and giving the agent access to a customer s profile and interaction history information may help to expedite and improve the overall quality of the customer service provided by the contact center agent and as a result positively impact the business supported by the contact center.

These and other features aspects and advantages of the present invention will be more fully understood when considered with respect to the following detailed description appended claims and accompanying drawings. Of course the actual scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims.

In the following detailed description only certain exemplary embodiments of the present invention are shown and described by way of illustration. As those skilled in the art would recognize the invention may be implemented in many different forms and should not be construed as being limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Like reference numerals designate like elements throughout the specification.

In general terms embodiments of the present invention are directed to a system and method for providing contact center services for different business enterprises and government entities which enable such organizations to effectively integrate social media dialogues and information into their customer service infrastructures. To that end media servers monitor an organization s social accounts e.g. the Twitter account s and Facebook page s associated with the organization and query posts that mention for example the organization s name products and or brands from social site application programming interfaces APIs at preset time intervals. Returned messages are then analyzed categorized and prioritized based on the business s social media policies and or objectives. Natural language processing may be used to review the messages for actionability e.g. a customer looking for assistance and sentiment e.g. positive negative or neutral in tone .

According to an embodiment of the present invention a message s actionability and sentiment as well as the author s business value to the organization and level of influence in the social sphere may be determined and used in prioritizing and distributing interactions to agents. According to one aspect an author s level of influence may be gauged using information provided by a third party influence service such as Klout http klout.com . The prioritized messages are then distributed to contact center agents who may engage the messages authors as necessary. According to an embodiment of the present invention an agent may access a desktop component providing an interaction workspace for a consolidated cross channel view of the author s profile information and interaction history with the organization and gain access to standard responses and or the organization s knowledge base. This allows the agent to connect the dots and provide a correct consistent reply to the customer.

During a communication between an agent and a customer it may be desirable to escalate the conversation to a different media channel. Such a change may be prompted by an opportunity to exchange private information or a desire for a more extensive dialogue uninhibited by channel related constraints such as for example character limitations e.g. 140 characters that are allowed for Twitter messages . In such a scenario the customer is typically asked to call in send an email or initiate a web chat from the company s web page. In so doing the customer often has to manually change applications and or devices and manually initiate the new interaction. This often results in a loss of connection to the previous interaction and therefore the customer is treated generically i.e. given no special priority or chance of last agent routing and may face a potentially long queue time and have to repeat his her identifying information to a newly assigned agent. Furthermore if the customer identification information used for the social media interaction is not available to the contact center e.g. in a customer relations management database the contact center may not be able to associate the prior social media communication to the current inbound interaction for which a different identification information is provided. In this case the newly assigned agent may not have any context of the earlier social media communication. According to embodiments of the present invention cross channel communication provides a convenient way to transition from one communication channel to another one without losing the context of the conversation or the author s identification information.

According to some exemplary embodiments the contact center includes resources e.g. personnel computers and telecommunication equipment to enable delivery of services via telephone or other communication mechanisms. Such services may vary depending on the type of contact center and may range from customer service to help desk emergency response telemarketing order taking and the like.

Customers potential customers or other end users desiring to receive services from the contact center may initiate inbound interactions with the contact center via their end user devices collectively referenced as . Each of the end user devices may be a communication device conventional in the art such as for example a telephone wireless phone smart phone personal computer electronic tablet and or the like. Users operating the end user devices may initiate manage and respond to telephone calls emails chats text messaging web browsing sessions and other multi media transactions. In this regard the end user devices may be equipped with a web browser or other like application for accessing information over the World Wide Web.

Inbound and outbound interactions from and to the end users devices may traverse a telephone cellular and or data communication network depending on the type of device that is being used. For example the communications network may include a private or public switched telephone network PSTN local area network LAN private wide area network WAN and or public wide area network such as for example the Internet. The communications network may also include a wireless carrier network including a code division multiple access CDMA network global system for mobile communications GSM network and or any 3G or 4G network conventional in the art.

According to one exemplary embodiment the contact center includes a switch media gateway coupled to the communications network for receiving and transmitting calls between end users and the contact center. The switch media gateway may include a telephony switch configured to function as a central switch for agent level routing within the center. In this regard the switch may include an automatic call distributor a private branch exchange PBX an IP based software switch and or any other switch configured to receive Internet sourced calls and or telephone network sourced calls. According to one exemplary embodiment of the invention the switch is coupled to a call server which may for example serve as an adapter or interface between the switch and the remainder of the routing monitoring and other call handling systems of the contact center.

The contact center may also include a multimedia social media server for engaging in media interactions other than voice interactions with the end user devices and or web servers . The media interactions may be related for example to email vmail voice mail through email chat video text messaging web social media screen sharing and the like. The web servers may include for example social interaction site hosts for a variety of known social interaction sites to which an end user may subscribe such as for example Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Pinterest and the like. The web servers may also provide web pages for the enterprise that is being supported by the contact center. End users may browse the web pages and get information about the enterprise s products and services. The web pages may also provide a mechanism for contacting the contact center via for example web chat voice call email web real time communication WebRTC or the like.

According to some exemplary embodiments of the invention the switch is coupled to an interactive voice response IVR server . The IVR server is configured for example with an IVR script for querying customers on their needs. For example a contact center for a bank may tell callers via the IVR script to press 1 if they wish to get an account balance. If this is the case through continued interaction with the IVR customers may complete service without needing to speak with an agent.

If the incoming interaction henceforth referred to as incoming customer activity is to be routed to an agent the call server will interact with a routing server for finding the most appropriate agent for processing the incoming activity. The call server may be configured to process PSTN calls VoIP calls and the like. For example the call server may include a session initiation protocol SIP server for processing SIP calls. According to some exemplary embodiments the call server may for example extract data about the customer interaction such as the caller s telephone number often known as the automatic number identification ANI number or the customer s interne protocol IP address or email address.

In some embodiments the call server may also query a customer database which stores information about existing clients such as contact information service level agreement SLA requirements nature of previous customer contacts and actions taken by contact center to resolve any customer issues and the like. The database may be managed by any database management system conventional in the art such as Oracle IBM DB2 Microsoft SQL server Microsoft Access PostgreSQL MySQL FoxPro and SQLite and may be stored in a mass storage device . The call server may query the customer information from the customer database via an ANI or any other information collected by the IVR . The information may then be relayed to the agent device of the agent who is processing the call.

In one example while an agent is being located and until such agent becomes available the call server may place an incoming customer activity in for example a customer activity queue. The activity queue may be implemented via any data structure conventional in the art such as for example a linked list array and or the like. The data structure may be maintained for example in buffer memory provided by the call server .

Once an appropriate agent is available to handle a customer activity the activity may be removed from the customer activity queue and transferred to a corresponding agent device collectively referenced as . Collected information about the customer and or the customer s historical information from the customer database may also be provided to the agent device for aiding the agent in better servicing the call. In this regard each agent device may include a telephone adapted for regular telephone calls VoIP calls and the like. The agent device may also include a computer for communicating with one or more servers of the contact center and performing data processing associated with contact center operations and for interfacing with customers via a variety of communication mechanisms such as chat instant messaging voice calls and the like.

The selection of an appropriate agent for routing an inbound or outbound customer activity may be based for example on a routing strategy employed by the routing server and based on information about agent availability skills preferences and other routing parameters provided for example by a statistics server .

According to some exemplary embodiments the media servers may be configured to detect user presence on different websites including social media sites and may also be configured to monitor and track interactions on those websites.

The contact center may also include a reporting server configured to generate reports from data aggregated by the statistics server . Such reports may include near real time reports or historical reports concerning the state of resources such as for example average waiting time abandonment rate agent occupancy and the like. The reports may be generated automatically or in response to specific requests from a requestor e.g. agent administrator contact center application and or the like .

According to some exemplary embodiments of the invention the routing server is enhanced with functionality for managing back office offline activities that are assigned to the agents. Once assigned to an agent an activity may appear in the agent s workbin collectively referenced as as a task to be completed by the agent. The agent s workbin may be implemented via any data structure conventional in the art such as for example a linked list array and or the like. The workbin may be maintained for example in buffer memory of each agent device . The activity may also be pushed to the agent device via for example a pop up message for acceptance or refusal in real time.

According to some exemplary embodiments in addition to storing agent preference data the mass storage device also stores data related to contact center operation such as for example information related to agents customers customer activities and the like. The mass storage device may take form of a hard disk or disk array as is conventional in the art.

According to some exemplary embodiments the system also includes an outgoing contact server OCS for scheduling initiating and or managing outgoing interactions. For example the OCS may store an outgoing contact list and may interface with the routing server to enable an agent to partake in an outgoing activity to for example upsell current customers solicit new businesses seek donations for charitable organizations or reach out to customers who have requested technical assistance. According to some embodiments the OCS may further interact with the IVR for placing outgoing calls.

The various servers of may each include one or more processors executing computer program instructions and interacting with other system components for performing the various functionalities described herein. The computer program instructions are stored in a memory implemented using a standard memory device such as for example a random access memory RAM . The computer program instructions may also be stored in other non transitory computer readable media such as for example a CD ROM flash drive or the like. Also although the functionality of each of the servers is described as being provided by the particular server a person of skill in the art will recognize that the functionality of various servers may be combined or integrated into a single server or the functionality of a particular server may be distributed across one or more other servers without departing from the scope of the embodiments of the present invention.

Based on the information received from supported social media application programming interfaces APIs the media server creates an interaction and delivers the interaction along with any associated data to the interaction server . According to one embodiment all or portions of the interaction are stored in the mass storage device via a universal contact server UCS . The UCS may be configured to maintain and provide customer contact profiles including customer contact information e.g. names addresses phone numbers etc. contact history previous interactions with the contact center and other data used in processing interactions such as standard responses and screening rules.

According to one embodiment the interaction server acts as central hub for managing and processing interactions according to one or more business processes. The business processes may employ a classification server to classify the interaction and determine the post s sentiment and actionability as well as the influence and value of the post s author. According to one embodiment these data points provide a basis for prioritizing the interaction. Other data points in addition to or in lieu of actionability sentiment and influence may be considered in prioritizing the interaction. For example a value rating of the author may also be taken into account. The author s value rating may be retrieved by accessing the company s customer database or customer relationship management CRM model. According to one embodiment CRM is implemented for managing a company s interactions with customers clients and sales prospects. It often involves organizing automating and synchronizing business processes such as sales marketing customer service and technical support activities with the goal of maintaining and expanding the current pool of clients.

When the business process run by the interaction server determines that an agent response should be provided after analyzing and classifying the interaction the interaction may be either delivered or queued for delivery to an agent. For example the interaction may be queued in a social message queue for social media interactions.

According to one embodiment the contact center system includes a rules engine configured to apply one or more business rules based on input data and provide a result in response. The rules may be invoked for example for assigning a priority to an interaction based on data associated with the interaction. The rules may be configured to consider for example actionability sentiment influence and the like and output a priority value as a result of applying the rule. In one aspect the rules may be invoked for managing social message queues at the contact center in accordance with social media SLAs.

A workload distribution system may also interact with the interaction server for receiving generating and or distributing tasks to the agents. The task may or may not be related to a social media interaction between an agent and a customer. The workload distribution system may be a standalone system or incorporated into one or more components of the contact center such as for example the rules engine .

According to one embodiment the agent devices invoked to engage in social media interactions with customers may each include an agent desktop having a monitor and one or more input devices e.g. keyboard and mouse . The agent desktop may be configured with various plugins e.g. a Twitter plugin a Facebook plugin a RSS plugin a Radian6 plugin or the like and may provide the agent with graphical user interface GUI tools for handling social media tasks. These tools may for example provide the agent the ability to send and receive private and public messages access an author s original post or comment from the agent s browser pane delete spam or objectionable content enter disposition codes to assign a business outcome to the agent s actions and the like. Once a reply is sent by the agent it may be processed by the business process strategy employed by the interaction server and delivered back to the media server for delivery to the customer through the social site s API.

In step the media server monitors social media sites such as Facebook and Twitter and captures and queues interactions e.g. posts that mention the business s name products brands etc. The media server may for example wait for messages to be sent to the organization s social accounts e.g. their Facebook or Twitter account by the site s API. The media server may also seek out posts that mention the company s name products brands etc. by employing a query mechanism which may include providing a list of search terms which a deployment partner e.g. Facebook Twitter Google etc. crafts into a query. The query may be run on the social site s API at configurable time intervals e.g. every ten minutes or 30 seconds etc. and the messages that are available to the API private messages often are not may be returned. According to one embodiment in addition to the original post the media server may capture related messages as determined by preset criteria.

The media server may also invoke a notification medium such as Really Simple Syndication RSS to receive notification of web feeds relevant to the contact center. An organization may create an RSS feed from a news site blog forum etc. The web feed dynamically sends to the media server messages as they appear on various sites. RSS feeds typically include some standard information such as for example the originating site s name author s information title description of and a link to the content.

According to one embodiment the captured social media interactions are stored in the universal contact server in association with the author contact of the interaction. The interaction may then be transmitted to the interaction server for analysis e.g. of the title and description for actionability sentiment and the like.

According to one embodiment the media server may also employ third party social monitoring services such as Radian6 for pulling messages from different social sites and delivering them to the contact center.

In step the interaction server invokes the classification server to analyze the content of the captured social media interaction for particular attributes such as for example actionability and sentiment. According to one embodiment the classification server accesses a natural language processing NLP engine for parsing the text of the interaction and classifying categorizing it to one or more models provided by for example the UCS according to any conventional mechanism. The NLP engine may be configured to classify the interaction via pattern matching to models of a desired value which may include for example actionable and non actionable positive negative and neutral sentiment or models for product types or services. These analytical models may be hardcoded by the contact center provider or may be constructed based on the organization s actual messages so that the models match the tone language and style associated with the organization s customer communications. In formulating the models the messages may be distilled by first removing the words that don t add meaning e.g. the of a to etc. and reducing the remaining words to their root or lexeme.

A social media interaction to be analyzed may follow a similar process before it is compared to the model through pattern matching. The result of the pattern matching process may be in one example a number from 1 100 or a percentage point that indicates how well the interaction matches the model with high numbers indicating a good match and low numbers indicating a poor match. The business process or strategy may take the results of the NLP to determine which attribute to assign to the interaction. For example in the case of actionability the classification server may test the new interaction against an actionable and non actionable model. The result with the higher number indicates the best match so that attribute is assigned. Additionally multiple attributes or categories may be assigned to the interactions through multiple NLP steps to analyze the message. According to an embodiment a reviewing contact center administrator or agent may via his or her desktop manually adjust the actionability or sentiment values determined by the classification server . The adjustment may be for example to correct for any errors that may arise as a result of the NLP s inability to for example correctly detect sarcasm or irony.

In step the interaction server invokes the rules engine to prioritize the captured interactions based on interaction attributes such as for example the actionability of the message the sentiment of the message the business value of the author and the social or network influence of the author or any subset thereof. For example the interaction server may be configured to pass to the rules engine one or more of the interaction attributes and receive in return a priority value for the interaction.

With respect to actionability the classification server may upon analysis of an interaction determine a degree of actionability of the interaction. For example actionable messages may request assistance pose a question and the like. Other messages may be simple comments which may not warrant any specific action in which case the classification server may be configured to assign a low or non actionability value to the interaction. Messages that are considered non actionable may be routed as low priority or simply ignored based on a low priority value assigned to the message upon invocation of the rules.

With respect to sentiment the interaction server may for example receive from the rules engine a higher priority value for interactions that carry a negative sentiment tone than those that have a positive or neutral tone recognizing that people are generally likely to remember and pass on bad news rather than good news. In one aspect a message with a neutral tone from a previously very positive customer may be given higher priority. In certain instances an interaction with a positive sentiment may be deemed to be actionable and hence given a higher priority for engaging the customer to encourage him or her to take additional actions to promote the company. For example if a previously negative customer is now satisfied and posts a comment with a positive sentiment the rules engine may be configured to engage the customer to for example become a member of an advisory board post a like for the business on Facebook and or the like.

According to one embodiment the rules consider a value to the enterprise s business of an author of an interaction as a factor in prioritizing the message. The author s value may be determined based on for example the author s general status as a Gold Silver or Bronze client. The author s value may also be determined based on impending business opportunities with the author such as for example a pending insurance policy renewal in the case of an insurance company or a pending loan application in the case of a bank.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the influence of the author of an interaction is further considered in assigning a priority value to the interaction. Influence may refer to the reach of one s online social network and may be determined based on the size of the person s online social network. The size of the person s online social network may be based on the number of people that are directly or indirectly connected to the person over the online social media network. Influence of a particular person may be calculated for example based on the number of followers that the person has on Twitter the number of followers that the person s followers have the number of friends the person has on Facebook the number of friends that the person s friends have the number of messages the person posts on average the number of posts that are forwarded resent or shared to others in the person s social network and or the like. According to one example the rules may be configured to consider an author s influence level in assigning a priority to an interaction if the influence level is above a certain threshold. An author s influence may be obtained for example from a third party influence engine such as Klout.

According to one embodiment prioritizing an interaction based on actionability sentiment influence and value as well as other variables may be dependent on the business process or strategy reflected by the business rules applied by the rules engine. For example one rule may be that if an interaction is actionable sentiment is negative and influence is high a high priority is assigned to the interaction. Another rule may be that if the author of an interaction is highly influential and sentiment is negative a high priority is assigned to the interaction even if the interaction is not classified as being actionable. Conversely a negative message posted by an author who has a very low social influence value may be ignored and not routed to any agent if the interaction is not classified as being actionable.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a contact center supervisor or administrator may manually adjust the priority given to a particular interaction or adjust one or more of its attributes e.g. actionability sentiment and or the value and influence of its author via a graphical user interface provided by the supervisor or administrator s desktop . According to one aspect an agent may also have the ability to adjust one or more of the interaction attributes upon reviewing the interaction. In one embodiment the adjustments made by the agent and or administrator may be used as a feedback mechanism for improving the pattern matching algorithm and classification process employed by the classification server .

In step the routing server is invoked by the interaction server for distributing the prioritized interaction to an available agent according to a routing strategy. The routing strategy may consider for example business rules service level agreements or more specifically social media SLAs agent skills and preferences the desired agent skills for handling the given social post and or the like. According to one embodiment one or more attributes of the prioritized interaction are transmitted to the routing server along with a routing request. The routing strategy that is employed may be configured to consider the one or more attributes in making a routing decision. For example the routing strategy may assign interactions that have a negative sentiment to one or more of a special group of agents that may have training and or experience in handling disgruntled customers.

According to one embodiment of the present invention the influence of a customer contacting a contact center is an attribute that is taken into account by the routing strategy in making a routing decision. For example the routing strategy may be such that interactions by customers with a high influence are routed to specific groups of agents. For example if the customer is assigned an overall influence score that is above 90 as calculated via any known influence calculating algorithm an interaction by the customer may be routed to the agents with the highest skill level. As with priorities supervisors or administrators may manually adjust message distribution via the graphical user interface on the administrator s desktop .

In step an assigned agent receives the interaction operational data e.g. text of the social media post on his her desktop and engages the author of the interaction. In this regard a task generated for the interaction may be pushed to the agent s desktop for acceptance or refusal. The task may also be queued in the agent s workbin for retrieval when the agent is ready to handle the task. According to one embodiment the agent interacts with the customer at least initially on the same media channel from which the interaction was captured. For example a Twitter post by the customer may be responded with another Twitter post a Facebook post may be responded with a Facebook comment or the like.

In one embodiment the routing strategy may bypass distributing the interaction to an agent and instead distribute the interaction to an automated response system for retrieving a ready made response from a standard response library based on analysis of the content of the interaction.

Example 1 demonstrates a scenario in which a Twitter message is sent to a business through a mention by posting a message in the format Twitter account handle user message and both the business process and the assigned contact center agent send a reply. In this example it is assumed that the company Genesys has a Twitter account under the same name that is being monitored by its contact center. The customer uses his her Twitter account to post a message Genesys Hello I have a problem. The new message is posted into Twitter s special mentions folder Genesys . A contact center s social engagement strategy may entail the following 

2. The interaction server creates an interaction and places it into the appropriate queue and business process strategy. The interaction may be associated with a number of parameters which may include for example the author s name username mentions and or relevant key words contained in the message and the like.

3. Customer profile details are received with the message through the Twitter API. The profile details may be attached to the interaction. All useful Twitter profile information can also be saved in one of the contact center s databases operated by for example the contact center s UCS or context services CS .

4. The incoming Twitter interaction is processed according to the contact center rules. Once in the strategy the interaction may be analyzed as needed. The classification server can determine if the customer is a follower. It can further calculate the customer s business value and influence and the message s sentiment and actionability. In this example the classification server determines that the actionability rating is high but the author of the post is not a follower of Genesys s Twitter account.

5. The organization has defined its business rules such that non followers are sent a follow request. This allows the agent to assist customers over Twitter privately.

6. The business process strategy creates a follow request tweet such as Please follow Genesys for us to assist you. 

7. The tweet is stored in the UCS CS as an outgoing Twitter message and associates it with the same interaction.

10. The original incoming Twitter interaction is delivered to an agent s desktop . The desktop identifies that this message was directed to the business and the author is a follower of the business s Twitter account.

11. The agent reads the incoming Twitter message and sends a private response. Alternatively the agent may mark this interaction as Done assign a disposition code and not take any further action. In this case the agent sends a direct message private message as a reply.

12. The interaction server creates an interaction in UCS CS for the outgoing Twitter interaction and associates it with the same customer contact.

Example 2 demonstrates a scenario in which a public message that mentions a company s product name is posted on Twitter and the company s contact center agent responds via a private message. In this example it is assumed that the company has configured queries to search the social sites. These queries may contain certain key words that identify the message as relevant to the organization. A contact center s social engagement strategy may entail the following 

2. The interaction server creates an interaction and places it into the appropriate queue and business process strategy. The interaction may be associated with a number of parameters which may include for example the author s name username mentions and or relevant query key words contained in the message and the like. The strategy creates the interaction in the UCS CS and associates it with the contact.

3. Customer profile details are requested by the strategy. The profile details are attached to the interaction. This profile info may be requested specifically for messages not sent to the business either directly or through a mention.

5. The incoming Twitter interaction is processed according to the contact center rules. Once in the strategy the message can be analyzed as needed. The classification server can determine if the contact is a follower. It can further calculate the customer s value and influence and the message s sentiment and actionability.

6. The interaction is delivered to an assigned agent s desktop . The desktop identifies that this message was not directed to the business and whether or not the author is a follower of the business s Twitter account following is required for direct private messages . In this example the post s author is a follower.

7. The agent processes the incoming Twitter message and sends a response if required. Alternatively the agent may mark this interaction as Done assign a disposition code and not take any further action. In this case the agent sends a direct message private message as a reply.

8. The interaction server creates an interaction in UCS for outgoing Twitter interaction and associates it with the same contact.

10. The media server sends a reply back to the customer. Depending on the agent s setting the media server sends either a regular message which appears on the customer s timeline or as in this case a direct message which is delivered to the customer s inbox.

Example 3 demonstrates a scenario in which a Facebook message is posted to a business s Facebook page wall and the contact center agent replies with a public message. In this example it is assumed that a business has a Facebook account and a number of Facebook pages that it monitors. These pages have walls where customers and page administrators can place posts and comments. In order to make posts and comments customers need to like the particular pages where they want to post. In this example a customer posts a message on the company s wall and several other Facebook users later add their comments to this post. A contact center s social engagement strategy may entail the following 

1. The media server queries this page s wall and finds the new post with comments. The query is run on a configurable timer.

2. The interaction server creates an interaction and places it into the appropriate queue and business process strategy. The interaction includes the original post plus comments which are posted within the query s timeframe. Additional attributes describing the author s and commentators profiles may also be part of the interaction structure. The strategy creates the interaction in UCS CS and associates it with the contact s .

It should be noted that while the interaction representing the initial post and comments is in queue further comments could be added to the message thread. The query may pick up these additional comments and create another interaction. It is desirable for these two interactions to be routed to the same contact center agent. As such either the messages are delivered to the agent together or the agent may need to be notified of the additional pending interactions.

4. The incoming Facebook interaction is processed according to the contact center rules and delivered to an agent.

5. The agent processes the incoming Facebook message and sends the response if required. Alternatively the agent may mark this interaction as Done assign a disposition code and not take any further action.

7. The interaction server creates the interaction in UCS CS for the outgoing Facebook interaction and associates it with the same contact. This data is accessible visible in the contact s history with UCS .

Example 4 demonstrates a scenario in which an RSS feed notifies the company of a blog news site or the like that mentions its product by name and both the business process and the assigned contact center agent send a reply. In this example it is assumed that a business has created a blog keyword search using an online search engine such as Google. The search looks for variations of a product name across blog sites searched by Google. After creating the search and tuning it by subtracting terms to filter the results to just the content that is of interest an RSS feed is created. The feed uniform resource locator URL is added to the media server . A contact center s social engagement strategy may entail the following 

2. The interaction server creates an interaction and places it into the appropriate queue and business process strategy. The interaction includes the RSS message as well as additional parameters that may include the author title description and URL of the message as commonly received along with the RSS message. All RSS information can also be saved in the UCS CS.

4. Incoming RSS interaction is processed according to the contact center rules. Once in the strategy the interaction can be analyzed as needed. The classification server can determine if the contact exists in the contact center s customer database. It can further calculate the customer s value and influence and the message s sentiment and actionability. In this example the classification server determines that the actionability rating is high but the author of the post is not a known customer.

4. The organization has defined its business rules such that all blogs mentioning the product are sent to agents for review.

5. The incoming RSS interaction is delivered to an assigned agent s desktop . The desktop identifies that this message was directed to the business and that the author is not a known customer.

6. The agent reads the incoming RSS message containing the title of the blog entry the description and the author name and decides that the blog is worth reviewing. Alternatively he she may find a review is not necessary and mark this interaction as Done assign a disposition code and not take any further action.

7. To review the blog entry the agent clicks on the URL in the message which opens his her browser to the blog.

8. The agent reviews the blog and may choose to comment or simply to enter the disposition No comment necessary and mark the interaction as Done. In this case a comment is warranted.

9. The agent enters a comment on the blog directly and copies the text entered to paste into the notes field for later reference.

In some aspects upon review of a post an agent may adjust the actionability or sentiment of the message as interpreted by the classification server using for example a drop down window . Such a feature may be desirable since natural language processors may have difficulty correctly interpreting sarcasm satire or irony. The agent may also be able to follow or unfollow a Twitter user as may be appropriate.

According to one aspect the agent s desktop may provide access to a customer s profile which may include for example the author s first and last name address contact information such as phone number email Twitter Facebook usernames etc. as well as other customizable fields.

In one embodiment the agent s desktop may provide a view of the customer s cross channel interaction history which may provide context for the author s post and enable the agent to better respond to the message. Each social media post and response may be listed as well as a transcript of other communications with the author and any associated data and notes taken by the agent in reference to handling the customer s request. For example a consumer who is unhappy with the results of a call made to the contact center may decide to vent his her frustration on Twitter or Facebook. When that post is captured and distributed to an agent for engagement the agent may see the details of the call in a Contact History section of the graphical user interface which may allow the agent to understand what precipitated the angry tweets allowing them to intelligently reply to the consumer.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the agent may set disposition codes that designate a business outcome for each of the social posts assigned to the agent. For example some messages may not warrant a response in which case the user can set a disposition code of No response needed and proceed to the next message. Additionally an agent may add any relevant notes to the interaction record for later reference.

According to an embodiment for messages that do warrant a response the agent may be able to reply directly from his her desktop . These replies may be public anyone can see them or private only the sender and recipient can see them . In one example the agent may be able to select a pre canned response from the standard response library and edit it as may be necessary before submitting it to the customer. The interaction workspace may also be configured to display a suggested response to the agent based on analysis of the message content according to an embodiment of the invention. In such a case the agent may be able to edit the suggested response before replying to the customer.

Because some posts cannot be understood without context in an embodiment of the present invention a button on the desktop may open the social site page or blog onto the agent s browser or this may be done automatically as a screen pop.

According to an exemplary embodiment of the invention the agent s graphical user interface may provide access to the organization s enterprise knowledge base by for example providing content that may include standard processes and forms support information or product and service overviews. These documents may be shared via a URL standard or shortened through social sites.

According to an embodiment the agent desktop may provide access to a standard response library which may provide common answers to common questions with personalization capabilities. The responses provided may include links to content attachments and Field Codes for personalization. Field codes may allow the customer s name or social ID to be automatically inserted along with many other values derived from CRM customer databases and or other external repositories.

According to an embodiment of the present invention an agent may be able to engage in cross channel communication with a post s author. For example an inbound tweet could be responded to through short messaging system SMS a chat session an email message a voice call or a post on another social media channel. Such a change or escalation of media may be desirable for example to exchange private information e.g. account number address information etc. to complete a purchase transaction to clarify a complaint privately to have a more extensive dialog without being restrained by channel related constraints or the like. In a typical scenario the change of communication channel may be manually invoked by asking the customer to call in send an email or initiate a web chat from the company s web page. In so doing the customer often has to manually change applications and or devices and manually initiate the new interaction. This often results in a loss of connection to the previous interaction and therefore the customer is treated generically i.e. given no special priority or chance of last agent routing and may face a potentially long queue time and have to repeat his her identifying information to a newly assigned agent. Furthermore the contact center may not be able to associate the prior social media communication to the current interaction over a different media channel due to a lack of access to the customer s social media identifier. Although social site APIs often do provide certain data on their users such as the first and last name provided by the Twitter API and the full name provided by Facebook that information may be inadequate for identifying the customer for a number of reasons 1 a user may not have entered his her real name and instead used a pseudonym e.g. Indiana Jones or Speed Racer when signing up for the online social service 2 a user may not have entered his her name as it appears in the contact center database e.g. entered Joe instead of Joseph and 3 the contact center database may have more than one record with the same name e.g. two Joe Smith s . Thus the newly assigned agent may not have context of the earlier social media communication.

A system and method for cross channel communication may allow an agent to initiate or invite a customer to a smooth transition from one medium to another while maintaining the connection to and the context of the original or parent interaction. According to one embodiment an agent may send a customer a link through a public or private message to an application or service which may include for example a web application a mobile application a cloud service or the like. Such a link may for example point to a chat application and an actuation of the link by the customer may initiate the chat dialog. An advantage of this approach may be that the customer may not need to download a specialized plugin or application to initiate the new session and the new session may launch in a browser window on the customer s device without the need for the customer to manually navigate to any particular contact page. Depending on the channels and application used the new interaction may even be established automatically by the application or service.

In addition to acting as a pointer the link may contain parameters that provide reference to the parent interaction such as for example the interaction identifier of the original tweet the customer contact record or any other record allowing the linking of this new child interaction to the customer and with the parent interaction to allow a full cross channel conversational view. As such the new interaction session may be initiated without the need for the customer to manually provide an identifier or authentication information that may otherwise be asked for in order to allow identification of any parent interactions over a social media channel.

The link parameters may be coded in the link according to one embodiment or the link may point to for example a record a resource a service or the like which provides the ability to refer to the customer record and or parent interaction. The customer record may include for example the customer s profile information such as name phone number contact number email or the like and or any previous interaction between the customer and the contact center which may help provide context for the present interaction. Enabling the agent to effortlessly access this information may allow the agent to better and more expediently serve the customer.

According to one embodiment the link including the additional parameters may be automatically generated by for example the interaction server and may be made available to the agent through the interaction workspace in the form of an automated standard response. When an agent decides to send a customer the link he she may simply select the link from the series of standard responses available through the standard response library. In another embodiment an invoked routing strategy may automatically send the link to the customer in accordance with a business rule.

According to one embodiment once the link is received by the customer via e.g. a private or public message the customer may initiate a new interaction session by actuating e.g. by clicking the link. In one aspect in response to the actuation of the link the end user device may be configured e.g. via a web browser application hosted by the user device to send a request for the new interaction to the media server . In one embodiment the request may be accompanied by some or all of the additional parameters included in the invitation link. The interaction server may process the new interaction request and use the accompanied additional information to identify for example the original parent interaction the customer and the agent who handled the original interaction. In one embodiment the processing logic employed by the interaction server may also treat the new interaction as a child of the original interaction and may link the child interaction to the customer s interaction history in the mass storage device . That is even if the CRM database does not have stored therein the user ID used for the original social media interaction e.g. Twitter handle Facebook ID etc. the universal contact server may via information contained in the new interaction associate the original interaction to a new interaction and maintain context of the conversation even in the new interaction channel. For example the prior conversation conducted over the original channel may be displayed to the agent.

According to one embodiment because the new interaction includes reference to the parent interaction the new child interaction may be delivered to same agent representative that handled the initial dialog with the customer last agent routing according to an embodiment of the present invention.

The interaction workspace of an agent s desktop may allow the agent to for example view and edit as may be appropriate any relevant information related to the new interaction such as the customer s profile information and interaction history.

In some scenarios it may be desirable to capture additional information from the customer e.g. email address customer number account number phone number etc. for cross validation or other purposes. This may be done by the agent requesting the input from the customer or may be done on an application system level through an automated dialogue before the interaction is delivered to the agent. According to an embodiment when the contact center is unable to correctly determine the identity of the customer a new record may automatically be created in the customer relations management database. Once the customer clicks on the link to initiate for example a chat interaction the customer may be asked for any other identifier e.g. in a web form field or as part of an automated chat dialog . Such identifier could be the account number phone number email address or any identifier that can be mapped to an existing customer record. Upon receiving this information the new and mapped records can be merged to show one contact across traditional and social channels.

In another embodiment customer identification and authentication may be accomplished by using a third party authentication routine. For example a customer may be prompted to log in through one of his her social site accounts e.g. Facebook or Twitter account and after a successful login may automatically be directed back to the child interaction e.g. in this case a chat session .

According to one embodiment of the present invention the link that is sent to the customer may be encrypted and or shortened e.g. by using a URL shortner as may be necessary.

According to one aspect the link may be associated with an expiration time and date. For example a link to a chat session in response to a post on a company s Facebook wall may remain active for 15 minutes. An attempt by a customer to access the link after its expiration date may prompt a message to the customer to contact the organization via a preset method e.g. contacting customer service through a 1 800 number . Similarly a link may have a limitation as to how many times it may be used to allow control over usage according to an embodiment of the present invention. When a customer accesses a link prior to establishing the child interaction the expiration date and or usage counter may be checked to prevent misuse.

A person of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that while the above description provides examples for cross channel communication from Twitter and Facebook to chat this feature is not limited to a particular media type or channel.

In step the agent invites the customer to a chat session by for example sending the customer a link reference via a private message e.g. a Twitter message mentioning the customer or a public post accessible by any Twitter user. The link may be for example a hyperlink or any other word symbol image or element that references data which may be followed automatically. In addition to pointing to a chat session the link may be encoded with additional parameters that may include for example the interaction ID of the initial tweet exchange parent interaction a time stamp indicating when the invitation was sent out and the like. According to one embodiment the link invitation may also have an associated access limitation such as an expiration period and or a maximum use limitation.

In step the customer actuates the link provided by the agent which may prompt a browser window such as window of to open on the customer s desktop establishing a new connection between the customer s browser and the media server .

In step the browser may send the media server a chat request which may include any of the parameters that may have been encoded in the invitation such as the parent interaction identifier or time stamp.

In step the media server may optionally prompt the customer for additional information. This information may be used to authenticate the customer by for example requesting verification information such as name phone number email or the like from the customer and cross checking that against existing records for that customer in the CRM database. Authentication may also occur through a third party service by for example asking the customer to login to a social site such as Twitter or Facebook and relying on the response from the social site s API as to whether or not the login attempt was successful. If the login was in fact successful the process may proceed to step otherwise the customer may be notified of the failure to authenticate and be prompted to for example provide verification information through a web form or another prescribed method. The additional information requested at this step may also be used to supplement the customer s contact records at the contact center. For example a contact center may not have the social identifier of the customer with whom it is engaged in social communication and by asking the customer for his her full name phone number email or other identifying information the contact center may be able to pair the detected social identifier of the customer with a preexisting record in the UCS CS.

In step the media server may check whether or not the invitation access link has expired which may occur if for example the link s expiration period has passed as may be readily gauged from the time stamps of the chat invitation and the chat request and or the access request exceeds the maximum number of times the link may be called. If the link has expired the media server may notify the customer that a chat session may not be initiated and may direct the customer to contact the contact center via a preset method such as calling a 1 800 number. If the link has not expired in step the media server forwards the chat request to the routing server .

In step the routing server may query the universal contact server to identify the parent interaction which the chat request points to and proceed to link the new chat interaction as a child of the parent in the customer contact history maintained by the UCS . The routing server may attach this and other relevant information such as customer s contact information interaction history to the chat interaction. According to one embodiment the routing server may also obtain the identity of the agent who handled the parent interaction and route the chat interaction to the same agent.

In step the routing server delivers the chat interaction along with any attached information to the agent s desktop .

In step subsequent to the agent sending the customer an invitation to join a private chat session in step the routing server may update the customer s interaction records at the UCS and or open a service or state or task in a conversation manager CM for a chat session associated with the customer. The CM may be deployed as a stand alone server or as part of the UCS and used for contextual data storage for maintaining records of ongoing services at the contact center which may include for example an outgoing campaign to reach out to a select group of customers for sales promotion or to conduct surveys.

In step subsequent to the media server receiving the chat request from the customer in step and any customer verification that may ensue in step the media server may query the UCS and or the CM for any additional information associated with the chat invitation used in processing the interaction. For example the UCS may provide the contact information of the customer the customer s interaction history any business rules processes associated with the customer and or an expiration time associated with the chat invitation. The conversation manager may for example provide information on open services associated with the customer. For example an open service may be an outgoing campaign to reach out to select customers to notify them of a promotional sale. In this case it would be beneficial to inform the agent who is assigned to the chat interaction of this open service as he she may be able to discuss the promotional sale with the customer during the chat dialogue.

In step the chat link that is sent to the customer may be encoded with information such as for example a unique key. The unique key may be used for example to identify the source interaction. According to an embodiment the key may for example be a multi digit number. According to an embodiment keys may be stored in a database table stored in the mass storage device . The database table may associate each key with other identifying parameters such as interaction ID time stamp etc. In step the routing server may create a database entry for the key encoded in the chat link in the interaction server .

In step subsequent to the media server receiving a chat request along with the chat invitation key from the customer in step and any customer verification that may ensue in step media server may query the interaction server for the identifying information associated with the key. In step the interaction server may identify the stored information related to the key from the database table and forward that information to the media server . The identifying information may be attached to the chat request before forwarding the request to the routing server in step .

As this invention has been described herein by way of exemplary embodiments many modifications and variations will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly it is to be understood that the invention described herein may be embodied other than as specifically described herein. For example although the above examples for cross channel communication focus on transitioning conversation from a social media channel to a non social media channel a person of skill in the art should recognize that embodiments of the present invention may also be applied in transitioning conversation from any two media channels.

