---

title: Systems and methods for managing a power distribution system
abstract: A system and method of determining priorities for restoration of power in a power distribution system includes collecting customer prioritization data for a set of customers. An inconvenience factor is determined from the customer prioritization data for each customer. A zone restoration factor is then determined from the inconvenience factor for each customer. The inconvenience factor takes into account the estimated outage time, the customer's back-up time, the willingness of the customer to use back-up devices, and customer's priority for the estimated outage time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09502898&OS=09502898&RS=09502898
owner: General Electric Company
number: 09502898
owner_city: Schenectady
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120201
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 13 363 847 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR DYNAMIC ISLANDING TO MINIMIZE LOAD SHED DURING RESTORATION AFTER A FAULT filed on Feb. 1 2012.

The subject matter disclosed herein relates generally to power systems and more specifically to systems and methods for managing a power distribution network.

Electrical power is typically produced at a plurality of generating stations and distributed through a plurality of networks transmission grid . Power produced at a generating station is typically three phase alternating current AC power. Power from generating stations is conducted to transmission substation where it is converted to high voltages to facilitate long distance transport on the transmission grid. Power added to the grid must be synchronized with the existing phase of the particular transmission line being utilized to conduct the power. When the power reaches a regional distribution area the high transmission voltage is typically stepped down at a power substation to accommodate the regional distribution grid. A primary or main distribution power line feeder line distributes power from a substation to the surrounding area. Feeder lines may be classified as tie feeders connects two sources loop feeders end connected to a source radial feeders connects between a source and a load point and parallel feeders connect the source and a load or load center and provide the capability of supplying power to the load through one or any number of the parallel feeders .

Occasionally delivery of power to a group of consumers may be suspended. This may occur when consumer demand for power exceeds production capability causing the network operator to apportion power service to certain customers. This is called load shedding. Load shedding is implemented to avoid automatic shutdown of power stations. To keep the power stations running under such conditions load shedding may be applied to different parts of the distribution network at set times. For example critical customers such as hospitals major factories and typically government offices may get continuous power while parts of the network supplying homes and small business offices may only get power for predetermined time intervals.

Load shedding may also occur during restoration after a fault if there is not enough available power for the demand. When a power outage occurs fault detection isolation and recovery FDIR programs kick in to isolate the fault and then to restore sections of the distribution network through alternate sources. FDIR systems may be incorporated in utility network management system and may include systems that manage identification and restoration of some or substantially all outage events in a utility grid. In the course of the restoration phase the FDIR programs may have to shed loads by cutting off power to segments of the distribution network to restore power into de energized zones. The shedding of the loads is decided on the last forecasted loads on the feeders de energized zone alternate sources .

There may be other causes of power outages in a network or sections of a network including a fault at the power station damage to the transmission line damage to substations short circuits or overloading of electricity mains. If a primary feeder fails or a fault occurs on a primary feeder or distribution transformer the other transformers start to feed back through the network protector on the faulted circuit. This reverse power causes the network protector to open and disconnect the faulty supply circuit.

The effect of a power failure is particularly severe in situations where there is an impact on public health and safety or an impact to the environment. For example hospitals key communication facilities including emergency broadcast essential government services such as fire police and military fresh water treatment and waste water treatment facilities schools designated as emergency shelters banks large business media and individual customers with medical needs would be severely affected during a power outage. Many of these types of customers have back up power sources.

Operators of power distribution systems such as for example utilities closely monitor the reliability and availability of their distribution system. They are normally required by the Public Power distribution network operator Commission PUC to record all outages and show progress in improving the extent and frequency of outages. During their rate adjustment period utilities can are often assessed penalties based on their reliability performance. The power distribution industry has developed performance metrics to measure the reliability and availability of their distribution system. These include the System Average Interruption Frequency Index SAIFI System Average Interruption Duration Index SAIDI and Customer Average Interruption Duration Index CAIDI . SAIFI is the average number of interruptions that a customer would experience. SAIDI is the average outage duration for each customer served. CAIDI gives the average outage duration that any given customer would experience. CAIDI can also be viewed as the average restoration time. Operators of power distribution networks are closely monitored by Public Power distribution network operator Commissions PUC and may be required to record all outages and show progress in improving the extent and frequency of outages.

In accordance with one exemplary non limiting embodiment the invention relates to a method of determining priorities for restoration of power in a power distribution system. The method includes collecting customer prioritization data for a set of customers and determining an inconvenience factor from the customer prioritization data on each customer in the set of customers. A zone restoration factor is then determined from the inconvenience factor for each customer. The embodiment may also include a database relating to back up devices available to customers and customers willingness to use the back up devices. The inconvenience factor may be calculated from information such as an estimated outage time customer s back up time willingness of customer to use back up devices and customer s priority for the estimated outage time. The inconvenience factor may be calculated by dividing the customer effective interruption time by a customer priority for the estimated outage time.

In another embodiment there is a system for determining priorities for restoration of power in a power distribution system. The system includes a computer and a subsystem that collects customer prioritization data for a set of customers. The system further includes a subsystem that determines an inconvenience factor from the customer prioritization data on each customer in the set of customers and a subsystem that determines a zone restoration factor from the inconvenience factor for each customer.

In another embodiment a method of restoring power in a power distribution system includes collecting customer prioritization data for a set of customers and determining an inconvenience factor from the customer prioritization data on each customer in the set of customers. A zone restoration factor is determined from the inconvenience factor for each customer and power is restored in a sequence based on the zone restoration factor.

In another embodiment there is a system for restoring power in a power distribution system. The system includes a computer and at least one subsystem that collects customer prioritization data for a set of customers. At least one subsystem determines an inconvenience factor from the customer prioritization data on each customer in the set of customers and at least one subsystem determines a zone restoration factor from the inconvenience factor for each customer. The system also includes at least one subsystem that restores power in a sequence based on the zone restoration factor.

In another embodiment non transitory computer readable media for instructing the determination of priorities for the restoration of power in a power distribution system provides instructions to collect customer prioritization data for a set of customers. Instructions are provided to determine an inconvenience factor from the customer prioritization data on each customer in the set of customers and determine a zone restoration factor from the inconvenience factor for each customer.

Other features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the following more detailed description of the preferred embodiment taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings which illustrate by way of example the principles of the invention.

The drawings described herein are for illustration purposes only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure in any way.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosure. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the disclosure can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown only in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the disclosure.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearance of the phrases in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover various features are described that may be exhibited by some embodiments and not by others. Similarly various requirements are described that may be requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

Embodiments of the present disclosure teach methods and system for managing power distribution system. In one embodiment the disclosure proposes managing power distribution system in order to minimize inconvenience of customers being served by the power distribution system. In one embodiment the inconvenience of a customer is calculated based on an ability of the customer to self sustain using their back up devices when no power is available through the power distribution system.

According to an example embodiment the present disclosure proposes managing the power distribution system based on inconvenience factor of customers in the power distribution system. As an example an inconvenience factor of a customer may be determined based on an estimated outage time and back up available with the customer. Furthermore each of the customers in the power distribution system may be assigned a priority. The priority may be assigned by an administrator of the power distribution system. As another example an inconvenience factor of a customer may be measured in terms of outage time priority of the loads for the customer and available back up. As an example a customer who was running a critical machine at the time of outage will have a high in convenience factor. Furthermore the in convenience factor of the customer will be mitigated if the customer has a back up supply or an alternative source to supply. According to an embodiment the inconvenience factor may be calculated as

According to an example embodiment a minimum value of the inconvenience factor of a customer may not be less than zero. When the value of equation 1 is less than zero the inconvenience factor will be assigned a value equal to zero.

The customer opting for the program may create a priority for different times of the day and different days of the year. As an example a school can opt in for low priority during the holiday period or off school hour period. A manufacturing plant may opt in as low priority load when factory is closed holiday season. As an added advantage the customers opting in for low priority may be charged a better rate than the normal customers. This will encourage customers to opt in to the program. Moreover the customer may have an option to enter his back up time if available and wants to opt into. As an example the customer may indicate that he has a back up time of 4 hours at low load and 1 hour at high load. The customer may also include a factor to indicate the customer s willingness to use the back up capacity. The factor may have a maximum value of 1 and minimum of 0. Alternatively the factor may be defined in terms of percentage or any other suitable scale. The power distribution network operator may create a database with a list of customers on the feeder and the priority of the customer and their loads.

In an example embodiment an inconvenience factor for each of the customers may be calculated. Furthermore a feeder inconvenience factor by summing the inconvenience factor of each of the customers located on the feeder. Moreover a zone inconvenience factor may be calculated by aggregating the customer inconvenience factor for the customers located within the zone. Search inconvenience factor will be calculated as follows 

The proposed algorithm may also utilize a self sustaining factor for the customers. The self sustaining factor represents the ability of the customer to sustain itself when disconnected from the grid. The for an ith customer may be calculated as estimated total outage time backup time 3 In above equation if the value of the for a customer is negative it will be assigned a value of zero. If the value of for a customer is equal to zero the customer may be marked as a self sustaining customer.

Upon the occurrence of a power outage i.e logic element the power distribution network operator may estimate the duration of the outage block . A self sustaining i factor may be calculated for the affected customers block . The power distribution network operator may then assign a priority to the customer or apply a previously determined priority block . The power distribution network operator may then calculate an inconvenience IFi for each customer which is sustaining factor multiplied by priority of the customer IFi i block . For example a hospital may have a higher priority over a barber shop. This priority is taken into account when determining the in convenience factor. Similarly if the predicted outage for a particular customer is 10 hours and customer has a back up available for 10 hours the inconvenience factor for the customer will be less than that of a customer who has back up only for an hour or than that of a customer with no back up power at all. This assigned priority helps to better serve their important customers. This priority is also dynamic and may be changed by the power distribution network operator.

An inconvenience factor by affected zone may then be calculated block . The zone may be a feeder line an area defined by customers between switches or an area encompassing on or more of the preceding. For example the power distribution network operator may set the priority of a feeder based on the priority of the customer and the loads priority defined by the customers. The zone inconvenience factor is calculated by summing the inconvenience factor for each customer in the zone. F IFi The power distribution network operator may calculate this inconvenience factor for each zone such as a feeder or area which is to be restored or where a load shed is required. This is calculated by summing up the IF for all the customers located in the zone. Form the zone inconvenience factor the power distribution network operator may identify or develop a list of zone restoration priorities i.e. a ranking for each feeder or area based on the in convenience factor IF block . This information may then be used by the FDIR to generate restoration plan based on the priority providing a more educated decision on which feeder or area should be restored as first priority. The power distribution network operator may then restore power using the zone restoration priority block .

Illustrated in is a method of dynamic islanding that may be implemented by the dynamic islanding system to minimize load shed during restoration after a fault. When a power outage occurs FDIR programs kick in to isolate the fault and then to restore sections of the distribution network through alternate sources. In the course of the restoration phase the FDIR programs may have to shed loads by cutting off power to segments of the distribution network to restore power into de energized zones. Traditionally the shedding of the loads is decided on the last forecasted loads on the feeders de energized zone alternate sources . The customer may be provided with an option to register and the power distribution network operator may receive a request to register block . The customer may be provided with the ability to register online or through other conventional means. The power distribution network operator may require participating customers to identify their back up devices indicate how much time their back up devices can operate and indicate their willingness to use their back up devices. The preceding back up capacity information is received block and stored block . The back up capacity information may be modified when the customer changes any of the inputs.

Upon the occurrence of a power outage i.e logic element the power distribution network operator may estimate the duration of the outage block . A self sustaining i factor may be calculated for customers in the power distribution network or sections of the power distribution network block . The power distribution network operator may then assign a priority to the customers or apply a previously determined priority block . The power distribution network operator may then calculate an inconvenience IFi for each customer which is sustaining factor multiplied by priority of the customer IFi i block . The method implemented by the dynamic islanding system may identify all the customers with value of equal to zero. Those customers may be disconnected islanded from the grid.

The amount of load to be reduced for restoration or to be reduced on a feeder if it is exceeding load limits . may then be calculated block . The FDIR system will determine how much load needs to be shed in order to restore power on a feeder. The FDIR system may also identify the feeder where the loads need to be reduced. In normal overloading conditions the DRMS can determine which feeder is exceeding its load limits and load shedding is needed. The dynamic islanding system may determine the load demand by zones block . The zone may be a geographic area a feeder or an area defined by clusters of customers that are able to be isolated. Based on the load demand by zone and inconvenience factor by zone the dynamic islanding system may generate a list of zones or customers having the requisite load that may be isolated during restoration with help of the switching elements block . The dynamic islanding system may use geographic information system GIS data to determine location of the identified customers and location of the switches. The identified islanded zones or customers will not be counted in demand prediction for the de energized zone. A list of options may be provided to the power distribution system operator block who can then isolate the identified zones block . The power distribution system operator may then restore power the non isolated customers block .

By utilizing this method the power distribution network operators utilities can minimize the load shedding on the alternate sources or de energized zone during restoration. A power distribution network operator may concentrate on restoration based on priority according to true need considering the environment they are in. Customers could be incentivized by lower rates for these non priority hours. Moreover the utilities may factor the back up supplies local generation to minimize the load shedding. For example if there is a university which can sustain itself through back up for the entire estimated outage period that university will be islanded from the grid. When calculating the estimated demand for the de energized zone the utilities may exclude such islanded customers thereby reducing the demand hence reducing the load shedding. The islanding method is dynamic as the customer may change the customer s back up parameters anytime. For example some of the customers may not want to use their back up power and will want to be restored as soon as possible. Those customers who do not want to be islanded may opt out by selecting the value of a in equation as zero.

An exemplary architecture for a network information and control system is illustrated in . The network information and control system may include a computer system which may be a personal or work station computer a conventional server computer or a mainframe including single processor or multiprocessor systems minicomputers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like. The computer system includes a memory component which may include a read only memory ROM or a random access memory RAM . The memory component is connected to a processor through a system bus . The processor may be any type of microprocessor or other known processor. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also may also be used as the processor . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of conventional bus architectures and may actually comprise multiple bus structures interconnected by various bridges adapters and or controllers.

The computer system may be coupled to one or more external components. For example the computer system may include one or more input devices for example a keyboard a mouse stylus a touch screen etc and one or more output devices e.g. a display comprising one or a combination of a monitor an alarm light emitting diodes LED printers and the like .

The computer system may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to a network such as the Internet a wide area network WAN or a local area network LAN through known communication devices such as a modem. The computer system may connect to one or more remote computers such as a remote client computer connected to the network . The remote computer may be a workstation a server computer a router a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the server computer. The logical connections include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the internet. When used in a LAN networking environment the computer system is connected to the local network through a network interface or adapter. When used in a WAN networking environment the server computer typically includes a modem or is connected to a communications server on the LAN or has other means for establishing communications over the wide area network such as the internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the serial port interface. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the server computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

The computer system also may include one or more mass storage components . Mass storage components may include any computer readable media such as a hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a hard disk a floppy disk drive for reading from or writing to a floppy disk or an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to an optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of media which are readable by a computer such as magnetic cassettes flash memory cards digital video disks Bernoulli cartridges and the like may also be used in the exemplary operating environment. The mass storage component may be connected to the processor by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface or an optical drive interface.

The processor may access an operating system and one or more software application programs stored in memory . The operating system is one or more programs that manage the hardware resources of the computer system including the memory the input devices the output devices and the mass storage components among others. The operating system also provides common services for software application programs . The software application programs are computer program that use the capacities of the computer system directly for a dedicated task. Software application programs are able to manipulate text numbers and graphics such as for example word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications process control applications enterprise management applications and the like. The software application programs may include computer programs that implement the method of dynamic restoration priority determination and the method of dynamic islanding .

In accordance with the practices of persons skilled in the art of computer programming the present invention has been described with reference to acts and symbolic representations of operations that are performed by a computer such as the server computer unless otherwise indicated. Such acts and operations are sometimes referred to as being computer executed. It will be appreciated that the acts and symbolically represented operations include the manipulation by the processing unit of electrical signals representing data bits which causes a resulting transformation or reduction of the electrical signal representation and the maintenance of data bits at memory locations in the memory system including the system memory hard drive floppy disks and CD ROM to thereby reconfigure or otherwise alter the computer system s operation as well as other processing of signals. The memory locations where such data bits are maintained are physical locations that have particular electrical magnetic or optical properties corresponding to the data bits.

The preceding general description of a suitable computing environment is provided in order to provide a context for the various aspects of the present invention. While the invention has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a computer program that runs on a computer those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention also may be implemented in combination with other program modules.

Generally software include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods may be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like. The illustrated aspects of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications argument model. However some if not all aspects of the invention can be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Although the steps operations or computations may be presented in a specific order this order may be changed in different embodiments. In some embodiments multiple steps shown as sequential in this specification can be performed at the same time. The sequence of operations described herein can be interrupted suspended or otherwise controlled by another process. The methods may be implemented in an operating system environment or as stand alone routines occupying all or a substantial part of the system processing.

This written description uses examples to disclose the invention including the best mode and also to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the invention including making and using any devices or systems and performing any incorporated methods. The patentable scope of the invention is defined by the claims and may include other examples that occur to those skilled in the art. Such other examples are intended to be within the scope of the claims if they have structural elements that do not differ from the literal language of the claims or if they include equivalent structural elements with insubstantial differences from the literal languages of the claims.

