---

title: Descending device with direct drive centrifugal brake
abstract: The present invention relates to a descending device for repeated braked descent of a load from an elevated structure. The descending device comprises a housing attachable to the elevated structure; a descent shaft rotatably attached to the housing; a centrifugal brake comprising a fixed part connected to the housing and a rotatable part connected to the descent shaft; and a rope configured for attachment of the load at two different load attachment portions being separated by a descent length of the rope. The descent shaft is directly connected to the rotatable part of the centrifugal brake such that one revolution of the descent shaft translates to one revolution of the rotatable part of the centrifugal brake; and the winding angle is at least 360°.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09474918&OS=09474918&RS=09474918
owner: Cresto AB
number: 09474918
owner_city: Halmstad
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20121220
---
The present invention relates to a descending device for repeated braked descent of a load from an elevated structure.

Work is often carried out in elevated structures such as high buildings or wind turbines. In the event of an emergency situation it is necessary to be able to quickly and reliably evacuate workers from the elevated structure. For example in the event of a serious accident such as fire in a wind turbine any people in the wind turbine may need to self evacuate from elevations of over 100 meters. Since such a self evacuation is often carried out under stress and without any assistance from other personnel the descending device used for the self evacuation should automatically and reliably keep the descent speed at a suitable level.

To provide for the desired reliability and ease of use known descending devices typically include a centrifugal brake for limiting the descent speed.

A centrifugal brake typically comprises a fixed part and a rotatable part where the rotatable part comprises radially movable brake shoes that are pressed towards the fixed part of the centrifugal part through the centrifugal force when the rotatable part rotates. The braking force by which the brake shoes are pressed against the fixed part is proportional to the square of the angular speed of the rotatable part and proportional to the mass of the brake shoes and the radius of the rotatable part.

In particular in modern wind turbines etc several persons may be in the elevated structure at the same time. The descending device should therefore be capable of rapid evacuation of several persons and descending devices requiring rewinding of a rope on a drum between each descent are not favorable.

DE 10 2005 010 767 discloses a descending device for repeated braked descent of a load from an elevated structure comprising a rope having two different load attachment portions being separated by a predefined descent length of the rope. The rope is partly wound around a descent shaft that is connected to the rotatable part of a centrifugal brake via a gear. A first descent is carried out by attaching the load such as a person to descend from the elevated structure to one of the load attachment portions whereby the descent shaft will be brought to rotate in a first direction of rotation. When the first load has reached the ground the subsequent descent is carried out by attaching the load to descend from the elevated structure to the other one of the load attachment portions whereby the descent shaft will be brought to rotate in a second direction of rotation opposite the first direction of rotation.

To ensure that there is no slippage between the rope and the descent shaft the descending device according to DE 10 2005 010 767 comprises a pulley with a generally V shaped groove for providing a high friction between the pulley and the rope.

In the descending device according to DE 10 2005 010 767. a gear is provided between the descent shaft and the rotatable part of the centrifugal brake in order to increase the angular speed of the rotatable part of the centrifugal brake such that a sufficient braking force can be achieved for descent at a suitable speed. According to international regulations descending devices should lower a person at a substantially constant speed of between 0.5 m s and 2 m s.

Although the descending device according to DE 10 2005 010 767 provides for repeated braked descent at a substantially constant speed it would be desirable to provide a descending device with improved reliability.

Furthermore to allow for manually controlled raising or lowering of a load the descending device according to DE 10 2005 010 767 further comprises a crank that allows a user to manually rotate the descent shaft. The crank acts on the high speed side of the gear i.e. on the side of the rotatable part of the centrifugal brake. To prevent unwanted descent in case the user lets go of the crank the crank is provided with a catch that can be manually activated depending on the desired direction of rotation. In an emergency situation a user under stress may however use the crank incorrectly. In such cases the user may due to the gear ratio destroy the gear which may lead to failure of the descending device

In view of the above mentioned and other drawbacks of the prior art it is thus an object of the present invention to provide an improved and in particular more reliable descending device for repeated braked descent of a load from an elevated structure.

According to a first aspect of the present invention it is therefore provided a descending device for repeated braked descent of a load from an elevated structure the descending device comprising a housing attachable to the elevated structure a descent shaft rotatably attached to the housing a centrifugal brake comprising a fixed part connected to the housing and a rotatable part connected to the shaft and a rope configured for attachment of the load at two different load attachment portions being separated by a descent length of the rope the rope being wound around the shaft along a winding angle being substantially constant during the braked descent wherein the descent shaft is directly connected to the rotatable part of the centrifugal brake such that one revolution of the descent shaft translates to one revolution of the rotatable part of the centrifugal brake and the winding angle is at least 360 

It should be noted that the housing may be any structure that comprises means for rotatable attachment of the descent shaft and that the fixed part of the centrifugal brake may be an integral part of the housing or may be a separate part that is attached to the housing using suitable fastening means. Moreover the housing may be substantially closed or may be an at least partly open structure. In any case the housing comprises an opening for allowing passage of the rope in the direction of descent.

The fixed part of the centrifugal brake may have an inner surface with substantially circular cross section. The inner surface of the centrifugal brake interacts with the rotatable part with a higher force the higher the rotational speed of the rotatable part gets.

The present invention is based on the realization that the reliability of a descending device for repeated braked descent can be substantially improved by directly connecting the rotatable part of the centrifugal brake to the descent shaft. Hereby potential failures of the descending device due to malfunction of the gear between the descent shaft and the rotatable part of the centrifugal brake can be eliminated. The present inventors have further realized that such a direct drive of the rotatable part of the centrifugal brake can be achieved without a substantial increase in the dimensions of the centrifugal brake by having the rope wound around the descent shaft by a winding angle of at least 360 . Such a winding angle allows the use of a relatively small translation radius the radius for translating the force acting along the rope to a torque acting on the rotatable part of the centrifugal brake while still preventing slippage of the rope relative to the descent shaft. With a small translation radius direct drive can be used without having to substantially increase the braking capability and thus dimensions of the centrifugal brake. To provide for a descending device that is suitable to be handled by one person that is is not to heavy and or bulky the diameter of the descent shaft should advantageously be less than 40 mm preferably less than 30 mm.

A larger winding angle provides for a further increase in friction force between the rope and the descent shaft which in turn allows an even smaller translation radius and accompanying decrease in the dimensions including mass of the centrifugal brake. The present inventors have found that it may be advantageous if the winding angle is at least 1260 or 3.5 revolutions around the descent shaft.

The descent shaft may advantageously be configured to allow the rope to slide axially along the descent shaft to reduce the risk of climbing of the rope.

To reduce the occurrence of unwanted slippage between the rope and the descent shaft the descending device may further comprise tensioning means arranged to provide a contact force between the rope and the descent shaft. The tensioning means may be arranged to always provide some contact force between the rope and the descent shaft i.e. also when no descent is taking place or the tensioning means may be arranged to provide a contact force in response to the initiation of a movement of the rope.

The tensioning means may advantageously comprise a braking arrangement connected to the housing and arranged to provide a braking force to the rope between the descent shaft and each of the load attachment portions of the rope. Due to the presence of such a braking force pulling the rope will result in a contact force between the rope and the descent shaft.

According to various embodiments of the present invention the braking arrangement may comprise at least one opening through which the rope runs during the descent the at least one opening being configured in such a way that a friction force acts between the at least one opening and the rope. The braking arrangement may advantageously comprise two openings one opening for rope moving downwards during the descent and one opening for rope moving upwards during the descent. Moreover the at least one opening may advantageously be dimensioned to press against the rope to thereby induce friction.

According to one embodiment the at least one opening may be provided with spring loaded chokes such as rubber rings or similar.

According to another embodiment the desired friction can be achieved by having the rope pass in different directions through several openings so that a force acting along the rope results in friction between walls of the openings and the rope. Such openings may for example be realized using a grating comprising a plurality of pins or bars.

According to various embodiments of the present invention the descending device may advantageously comprise a first flange and a second flange arranged on the descent shaft for restricting movement of the rope in an axial direction in respect of the descent shaft during the braked descent.

The first and second flanges may be arranged to be rotationally stationary in relation to the descent shaft so that rotation of the descent shaft results in a relative motion between the descent shaft and the first and second flanges.

When the rope comes into contact with either of the first and second flanges there will be a friction force component acting on the rope to tension the rope and provide for the desired contact force between the rope and the surface of the descent shaft. In other words the rotationally stationary flanges work as tensioning means.

With a winding angle of more than 360 pulling the rope will result in a relative motion between the rope and the descent shaft in the axial direction i.e. in a direction parallel to the rotational axis of the descent shaft. Through the provision of the above mentioned first and second flanges the rope can be prevented from climbing along the length of the descent shaft. In order not to introduce a too high friction between a rotationally stationary flange and the rope at least the side of the flanges facing the rope may have a low friction surface. For example the flanges may be made of or coated with a low friction material such as PTFE.

Moreover each of the first flange and the second flange may on a side thereof facing the rope be shaped in such a way that pressing the rope towards the flange in an axial direction along the descent shaft results in a force between the flange and the rope having a force component directed towards the descent shaft. In other words the first and second flanges may advantageously be shaped to provide a contact force between the rope and the descent shaft which means that the first and second flanges may act as tensioning means for preventing initial slippage between the rope and the descent shaft.

In order to provide the force component acting on the rope and being directed towards the descent shaft the cross section of each of the first and second flanges may for example be angled towards the rope. Of course the cross section need not follow a straight line but may equally well be curved.

According to various embodiments furthermore at least one of the first flange and the second flange may be movable relative to the descent shaft in the axial direction and the descending device may further comprise spring means arranged to press the at least one of the first and second flange towards the rope being wound around the descent shaft. Hereby it can be ensured that some contact force is always provided between the rope and the descent shaft i.e. also when no descent is taking place.

For providing a substantially uniform contact force between the first and second flanges and the rope each of the first flange and the second flange may have a helical configuration on a side facing the rope with a pitch substantially corresponding to that of the rope being wound around the descent shaft.

According to various embodiments of the present invention there may be a first friction coefficient between the rope and the descent shaft in a tangential direction of the descent shaft and a second friction coefficient between the rope and the descent shaft in an axial direction of the descent shaft the first friction coefficient being greater than the second friction coefficient. Hereby relative movement in the axial direction between the rope and the descent shaft without climbing of the rope is facilitated.

According to one embodiment the descent shaft may be structured to provide a higher friction coefficient in the radial direction than in the axial direction.

This may for example be achieved by providing grooves on the descent shaft the grooves extending in the axial direction of the descent shaft. The grooves may be substantially parallel to the rotational axis of the descent shaft or may be spiraling to help push the rope axially along the descent shaft to facilitate pulling the rope through the descending device in particular without load.

According to various embodiments the fixed part of the centrifugal brake may be at least partly open and the rotatable part of the centrifugal brake may comprises fan blades for cooling the centrifugal brake during operation of the descending device. Such an open architecture may also be beneficial for use of the descending device in harsh conditions such as in rain or snow in combination with freezing temperatures since water can be drained from the centrifugal brake and thus not form ice which might otherwise hamper operation of the descending device.

Moreover the descending device may further comprise an auxiliary driving arrangement for manual rotation of the descent shaft to raise or lower the load the auxiliary driving arrangement comprising a worm wheel connected to the descent shaft a worm arranged on a worm shaft and a crank connected to the worm shaft for allowing manual rotation of the descent shaft through a worm drive constituted by the worm wheel and the worm wherein the worm shaft is displaceable in an axial direction between an operational position in which the worm is engaged with the worm wheel and a disengaged position in which the worm is disengaged from the worm wheel.

The crank may advantageously be pivotable between a first state allowing movement in the axial direction of the worm shaft when the worm interacts with the worm wheel and a second state in which the crank keeps the worm in engagement with the worm wheel while preventing movement of the worm shaft in the axial direction.

According to a second aspect of the present invention there is provided a descending device for repeated braked descent of a load from an elevated structure the descending device comprising a housing attachable to the elevated structure a descent shaft rotatably attached to the housing a centrifugal brake comprising a fixed part connected to the housing and a rotatable part connected to the shaft and a rope configured for attachment of the load at two different load attachment portions being separated by a descent length of the rope the rope being wound around the shaft along a winding angle being substantially constant during the braked descent the descending device further comprising an auxiliary driving arrangement for manual rotation of the descent shaft to raise or lower the load the auxiliary driving arrangement comprising a worm wheel connected to the descent shaft a worm arranged on a worm shaft and a crank connected to the worm shaft for allowing manual rotation of the descent shaft through a worm drive constituted by the worm wheel and the worm wherein the worm shaft is displaceable in an axial direction between an operational position in which the worm is engaged with the worm wheel and a disengaged position in which the worm is disengaged from the worm wheel.

Although a direct connection between the worm wheel and the descent shaft may be preferable the worm wheel may alternatively be indirectly connected to the descent shaft such as via a gear.

Through this arrangement manually controlled raising or lowering of a load can be achieved without any unwanted descent in case the user lets go of the crank. Because of the inherent properties of the worm drive there will be no movement of the crank if the user temporarily lets go of the crank. To allow the user to stop the manually controlled operation of the descending device the worm can be disengaged from the worm wheel through axial displacement of the worm shaft.

The descending device according to this second embodiment of the present invention is fully combinable with the features of the first aspect of the present invention and embodiments of and effects obtained through this second aspect of the present invention are largely analogous to those described above for the first aspect of the invention.

In case of emergency several persons may need to be evacuated from the nacelle . Using the descending device descent of the first person results in the hook at the free end of the rope being raised to the nacelle so that the second person can be evacuated without delay. With embodiments of the descending device according to the present invention two persons may simultaneously be evacuated from the nacelle .

A first embodiment of the descending device will now be described with reference to . In the descending device is shown in perspective with the rope wound 4.5 revolutions winding angle of 1620 around the descent shaft of the descending device. The descent shaft is directly connected to the breaking shoes of the centrifugal brake via a holder . The braking shoes are provided with brake linings which are pressed towards the inner surface of the fixed part the brake drum of the centrifugal drum by the centrifugal force resulting from the rotation of the rotatable part.

The descending device in further comprises a braking arrangement here in the form of a friction block provided with spring loaded chokes such as rubber rings at the passage of the rope through the friction block . As can be seen in the friction block is connected to the housing and arranged to provide a braking force to the rope between the descent shaft and the load attachment portions not shown in of the rope .

To allow the rope to glide in the axial direction along the descent shaft while providing sufficient friction in the tangential direction the descent shaft is as is schematically indicated in and provided with axially extending grooves which may for example be provided through knurling. Thereby the friction coefficient becomes anisotropic with a first value in the tangential direction and a second value in the axial direction where the first value is higher than the second value.

A second embodiment of the descending device will now be described with reference to . The descending device in differs from that described above with reference to in that it is provided with first and second spring loaded flanges and an auxiliary driving arrangement for manual rotation of the descent shaft for manually raising or lowering the load.

As is shown in the first and second flanges are angled towards the rope so that the sides of the flanges facing the rope act on the rope with a force Fthat has a force component that is directed towards the descent shaft to provide a contact force between the rope and the descent shaft .

As can also be seen in the grooves provided on the descent shaft may advantageously be arranged with a non zero pitch angle to contribute in pushing the rope along the descent shaft to reduce the force needed to pull the rope through the descending device . This is particularly useful when the rope is not carrying any load.

To prevent a momentary loss of contact force between the rope and the descent shaft when the descent direction is reversed each of the flanges is pushed towards the rope using a respective spring as is schematically shown in . In this way a contact force between the rope and the descent shaft will always be provided. The flanges may advantageously be rotationally fixed and movable in the axial direction.

As can be seen in which is a perspective close up view of a flange the flange is provided with one or several torsion locking means that travel in tracks in the housing which are substantially parallel with the rotational axis of the descent shaft . The surface C for axial control of the rope may advantageously be helically shaped with substantially the same pitch angle as the rope when the rope is wound around the descent shaft . To allow new rope to be pulled into the descending device at position B in at the bottom portion of the housing the helically shaped contact surface C is limited to a fraction of the circumference of the flange. The helically shaped contact surface C may for example extend along about 290 leaving about 70 for allowing passage of new rope into the descending device substantially without friction against the flange .

The auxiliary driving arrangement for manual lowering or raising of the load will now be described in more detail with reference to . As can be seen in the auxiliary driving arrangement comprises a worm wheel directly connected to the descent shaft a worm arranged on a worm shaft and a crank connected to the worm shaft for allowing manual rotation of the descent shaft through a worm drive constituted by the worm wheel and the worm . The crank is provided with a foldable handle . As is shown in the worm shaft is rotatably connected to the housing at bearings . Furthermore the worm shaft is displaceable in the axial direction between an operational position in which the worm is engaged with the worm wheel and a disengaged position in which the worm is disengaged from the worm wheel . In the worm shaft is shown in its disengaged position.

Turning now to the worm shaft is instead shown in its operational position in which the worm is engaged with the worm wheel which enables manual rotation of the descent shaft through rotation of the crank . With the worm shaft in this operational position the load can be raised and or lowered by rotating the crank .

The axial movement of the worm shaft to engage or disengage the worm drive should preferably be carried out with the load standing still and the descent shaft substantially unloaded. This may be achieved by winding the rope around a substantially cylindrical portion of the housing of the descending device as is schematically illustrated in .

To return to the first state from the second state the load may be held manually as illustrated in whereafter the crank is pivoted to the state in a and rotated to disengage the worm from the worm wheel . When the worm is disengaged from the worm wheel the worm shaft and worm is pushed away from engagement with the worm wheel through a spring .

Finally is an exploded view of an embodiment of the descending device according to the invention where the reference numerals indicate 

The open architecture of the centrifugal brake may also improve the functionality of the descending device in conditions with rain or snow followed by freezing temperatures since water can be prevented from accumulating which prevents the formation of ice which may otherwise hamper operation of the descending device.

The person skilled in the art realizes that the present invention by no means is limited to the preferred embodiments described above. On the contrary many modifications and variations are possible within the scope of the appended claims.

In the claims the word comprising does not exclude other elements or steps and the indefinite article a or an does not exclude a plurality. The mere fact that certain measures are recited in mutually different dependent claims does not indicate that a combination of these measured cannot be used to advantage.

