---

title: Future messaging system
abstract: Some embodiments of the invention provide a future messaging system that can be configured to analyze data from one or more data sources in an automated manner in order to detect with a degree of accuracy the occurrence of a possible future event, which may or may not occur in the future. Upon detection of the future event, the future messaging system in some embodiments provides content to a set of one or more recipients. Alternatively, in some embodiments, the future messaging system only provides notification of the detection to the set of recipients. In some embodiments, a user provides the content for release upon the detection of the future event. Along with this content, the user in some embodiments provides a description of the event and a list of one or more recipients for receiving the content upon the detection of the event.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08984077&OS=08984077&RS=08984077
owner: Evergram, Inc.
number: 08984077
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120824
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 575 642 filed Aug. 24 2011. Application 61 575 642 is hereby incorporated by reference.

Presently when an individual wishes to have any type of communication e.g. a letter a photograph a diary etc. delivered to a specific recipient or group of recipients upon or after the occurrence of a particular event that is not yet known that has not yet occurred and or that has not yet been scheduled the individual typically must find a trusted person such as an estate attorney a close friend and or a spouse to store and maintain the communication in a safe place and separately request the communication holder to deliver the communication to the designated recipient s when the event occurs.

Entrusting a person to deliver the communication upon the occurrence of a particular event has many disadvantages. First it allows for only a limited number of transactions worldwide. Second the person maintaining or storing the communication may pass away or fail to establish or maintain a system in place to ensure delivery of the communication. Third the content creator may not have informed the recipient s to contact the person maintaining the communication upon a certain event or events occurring. Fourth non digital media content often degrades or is difficult to view over time. Fifth digital media may not be readily viewable by recipients on a timely basis due to media encoding and re encoding challenges. Sixth the content creator and or the person maintaining the communication may fail to notice the occurrence of the event upon which the communication is to be delivered.

Some embodiments of the invention provide a future messaging system that can be configured to analyze data from one or more data sources in an automated manner in order to detect with a degree of accuracy the occurrence of a possible future event which may or may not occur. Upon detection of the future event the future messaging system in some embodiments provides content to a set of one or more recipients. Alternatively in some embodiments the future messaging system only provides notification of the detection to the set of recipients.

In some embodiments a user provides the content for release upon the detection of the future event. Along with this content the user in some embodiments provides a description of the event and a list of one or more recipients for receiving the content upon the detection of the event. The description of the event in some embodiments specifies a group of one or more event condition rule sets ECRS or can be used to derive such an ECRS group. Each ECRS includes one or more event condition rules ECRs that can be used to specify search and or analysis of data from data sources to detect the occurrence of an event.

In some embodiments each ECR or each ECRS specifies a search expression or can be used to derive such an expression so that the system can search for one or more data sources for data that satisfies the search expression. The system of some embodiments uses the search expression to perform analysis on the data stored in the data sources in order to determine whether data exists in the data sources that satisfies the ECR or ECRS. For instance in some embodiments the system uses the search expression to perform semantic analysis in order to determine whether in the data source a particular pattern of words exists that satisfies the ECR or ECRS. In other embodiments the system uses the search expression to perform an image analysis in order to determine whether a particular image pattern e.g. face can be identified in particular images e.g. images on cover pages of particular magazines that are stored by particular data sources.

Different embodiments specify the detection of an event differently. To specify a detected event some embodiments require all ECRS of a group of ECRS that is associated with a particular event definition to be satisfied. Other embodiments require only some of the ECRS of the group of ECRS to be satisfied. Yet other embodiments require all ECRS of a first group of ECRS for a first event to be satisfied while requiring only a subset of the ECRS of a second group of ECRS for a second event to be satisfied. Also some embodiments require all ECRs for an ECRS to be satisfied before the ECRS is deemed to be satisfied other embodiments require only some of the ECRs for an ECRS to be satisfied before the ECRS is deemed to be satisfied and yet other embodiments require the satisfaction of all ECRs for some ECRS while allowing partial satisfaction of the ECRs for other ECRS .

One of ordinary skill will realize that some embodiments might not divide the ECRs into different sets. On the other hand in case of embodiments that do divide the ECRs into different sets different of these embodiments divide the ECRs into different ECRS differently. Some divide the ECRs into different sets based on the different data sources others divide the ECRs into different sets based on different types of analysis yet others divide the ECRs into different sets based on a variety of different criteria.

It would be useful to describe one example of specifying an event for some embodiments. In some embodiments an event might be specified in terms of a first ECRS that specifies a semantic analysis for text and a second ECRS that specifies an image analysis of the images associated with the text. The first ECRS might have two ECRs while the second ECRS might have one ECR. The system might specify a detected event when either ECR of the first ECRS is satisfied along with the ECR of the second ECRS. In addition even when the ECR of the second ECRS is not satisfied this system might still specify a detected event if both the ECRs of the first ECRS are satisfied.

The preceding Summary is intended to serve as a brief introduction to some embodiments of the invention. It is not meant to be an introduction or overview of all inventive subject matter disclosed in this document. The Detailed Description that follows and the Drawings that are referred to in the Detailed Description will further describe the embodiments described in the Summary as well as other embodiments. Accordingly to understand all the embodiments described by this document a full review of the Summary Detailed Description and the Drawings is needed. Moreover the claimed subject matters are not to be limited by the illustrative details in the Summary Detailed Description and the Drawing but rather are to be defined by the appended claims because the claimed subject matters can be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit of the subject matters.

In the following description numerous details examples and embodiments are set forth for purpose of explanation. However one of ordinary skill in the art will realize that the invention is not limited to the embodiments set forth and that the invention may be practiced without some of the specific details and examples discussed.

Some embodiments of the invention provide a future messaging system that can be configured to analyze data from one or more data sources in an automated manner in order to try to detect occurrence of a future event which may or may not occur. Upon detection of the future event the future messaging system in some embodiments provides content to a set of one or more recipients. Alternatively in some embodiments the future messaging system only provides notification of the detection to the set of recipients.

In some embodiments a user provides the content for release upon the detection of the future event. Along with this content the user in some embodiments provides a description of the event and a list of one or more recipients for receiving the content upon the detection of the event. The description of the event in some embodiments specifies a group of one or more event condition rule sets ECRS or can be used to derive such an ECRS group. Each ECRS includes one or more event condition rules ECRs that can be used to specify search and or analysis of data from data sources to detect the occurrence of an event.

The first stage illustrates the future communication system receiving event configuration data from a user e.g. an individual defining the event configuration data . As shown at this stage the future communication system is receiving event configuration data from a user through a network . The event configuration data in some embodiments is any type of communication that relies on any number of different types of technology devices platforms or media that allows individuals groups of individuals and or entities to share send receive view etc. both digital content and non digital content.

In some embodiments the network is a local area network LAN a wireless local area network WLAN a wide area network WAN an intranet the Internet a telephone network a radio network a cellular network a network of networks and or any other type or combination of networks. A particular type of network may include additional features and or services that utilize the network for communication. For instance a cellular network may include a short message service SMS feature.

The future communication system of some embodiments utilizes numerous different types of protocols to communicate with the users and through the network . Example of such protocols include an Internet Protocol Suite a transmission control protocol TCP Internet Protocol IP a user datagram protocol UPD a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP a hypertext transfer protocol secure HTTPS and or any other medium layer or protocol used for networking and communicating.

As illustrated in the first stage of the event configuration data includes content event description data and recipient s data . In some embodiments the content includes video audio photos text or any other type of digital media. In other words the content is media agnostic. In addition the content of some embodiments includes a combination of any number of the same and or different types of digital media.

The event description data includes data that defines an event for triggering the release of the content to recipients specified in the recipient s data . In this example the user has defined the event configuration data such that the content is to be released to recipient who may also be a user of the system upon the occurrence of a future event that is specified by the event description data . In some embodiments the future communication system stores the content in a cloud storage.

In some embodiments a user provides content for delivery upon detection of a future event. Along with this content the user in some embodiments provides a list of one or more recipients for receiving the content upon the detection of the event and a description of the event. The description of the event in some embodiments specifies a set of one or more event condition rule sets or can be used to derive such a set of event condition rule sets.

In some embodiments each event condition rule or rule set specifies a search expression or can be used to derive such an expression so that the system can search for one or more data sources for data that satisfies the search expression. The system of some embodiments uses the search expression to perform analysis on the data stored in the data sources in order to determine whether data exists in the data sources that satisfies the event condition rule or rule set. For instance in some embodiments the system uses the search expression to perform semantic analysis in order to determine whether in the data source a particular pattern of words exists that satisfies the event condition rule or rule set. In other embodiments the system uses the search expression to perform an image analysis in order to determine whether a particular image pattern e.g. face can be identified in particular images e.g. images on cover pages of particular magazines that are stored by particular data sources.

The event condition rule sets are used to determine whether an event has occurred. Examples of such events include the death of a particular person the marriage of a particular person that was recently born the legalization of gay marriage the election of the first female U.S. President the next 9.0 earthquake etc. One of ordinary skill in the art will realize that there are an infinite number of event condition rule sets that can be specified to define such events upon which content is released to recipients. In addition the specified event may be an individual event a series of events or a series of events occurring in a particular order in some embodiments.

In some embodiments the event that is used as the criteria for determining when to release the content is an event that has not yet occurred at the time the event description data is specified. The event in some embodiments is an event that has not yet occurred and has not been scheduled to occur at the time the event description data is specified. As a result in some cases the event may never occur.

In some embodiments the event description data also includes data that specifies a set of data sources to use for detecting the event. For an event defined by multiple event condition rules or rule sets the event description data includes data that specifies a set of data sources for each event condition rule or rule set in the event definition.

The recipient s data includes a set of recipients to which the content is to be released when the occurrence of the event specified by the event description data is detected. In some embodiments the recipient s data also includes data such as authentication information for authenticating each recipient and a recipient address for each recipient. In some embodiments a recipient address is a location identified as belonging to a recipient e.g. an email address a Facebook account a Twitter account a home address a mobile phone number a physical address etc. .

In some embodiments the future communication system provides mechanisms through which users may specify event configuration data. For instance the system may provide a web application for the user to specify event configuration data through a web browser operating on a computing device and or a web service that the user uses to specify event configuration data. The system provides additional and or other mechanisms in different embodiments. Alternatively or in conjunction with providing the mechanisms the system of some embodiments allows users to send the system event configuration data that the users specified through applications operating on a mobile device a desktop computer or any other type of computing device that can communicate with the system e.g. any device that is capable of sending and receiving data . As another example the future communication system of some embodiments provides a service or communicates with an entity that provides the service that allows a user to call a telephone number e.g. a toll free phone number to record audio content as part of content released to recipients.

While shows the system receiving the content the event description data and the recipient s together and or at the same time in some embodiments the system receives the content the event description data and the recipient s separately and or at different instances in time e.g. through multiple transactions with the user s device .

The second stage of shows the system scanning a set of data sources e.g. via queries or other manners of accessing the data sources to detect the occurrence of an event condition rule set of the event defined by the event description data . In the second stage the future communication system is receiving data from the data sources through the network . Based on the data gathered from the data sources the system has detected an event i.e. that the event conditions rule sets are matched as indicated in the future communication system module.

In some embodiments a data source is a uniquely identifiable set of data repositories that contains any number of different types of data e.g. raw data indexed data collected data aggregated data organized data etc. . A data source of some embodiments may be an online data source an offline data source etc. In addition a data source may be part of different portions of the World Wide Web e.g. the surface web the deep web etc. .

To detect an event the future communication system of some embodiments accesses any number of different data sources e.g. specified by the system specified by the user that defined the event configuration data or a combination of both . In order to detect an event the system of some embodiments accesses any number of different data sources which may be based on the type of event or type of event condition rule sets. Examples of data sources include Google search the Facebook website the Twitter website a government e.g. state city county etc. record database the Social Security Administration Office s record database global positioning system GPS coordinates of a particular device e.g. mobile phone etc.

In some embodiments the system accesses data from the set of data sources e.g. by querying for data from the set of data sources to automatically detect the occurrence of an event without human intervention interaction and or assistance. For instance the future communication system of some embodiments continuously scans the set of data sources for data that indicates that the event for causing the content to be released has occurred. The system of some embodiments scans the set of data sources periodically at defined intervals e.g. thirty seconds five minutes an hour a day etc. . In some embodiments the system provides an on demand feature that allows a user to invoke a scan at any time. Regardless of the frequency at which the future communication system scans the set of data sources the system uses the data retrieved from the set of data sources to make a determination as to whether the event has occurred or not. For example in some embodiments when the data sources do not return any data after the system queries the set of data sources for data related to the event the system determines that the event has not occurred.

When the system receives data from a data source in the set of data sources in response to queries of the data sources the system analyzes the data in order to determine whether the specified event condition rule sets of the event have been satisfied. For example the system analyzes the data in some embodiments by determining the validity of the data. In addition the future communication system of some embodiments also analyzes the data by determining the credibility of the data sources from which the data was received. In this manner the system provides a level of accuracy in detecting an event.

The third stage of illustrates the release of the content to the recipients specified in the recipient s data . In particular the third stage shows the future communication system releasing the content to the recipient . In different embodiments the system triggers the release of the content to the recipient using any number of different methods. For example in some embodiments the system releases the content to the recipient by 1 sending a message e.g. an email a Facebook post a tweet etc. to the recipient that indicates that the content is available for access and 2 allowing the recipient to view download stream share forward etc. the content . Alternatively or in conjunction with any of the mentioned release methods the system transmits the content through the network to the recipient and or to a location identified as belonging to the recipient e.g. the recipient s email address Facebook account Twitter account home address mobile phone physical address etc. . Although illustrates the content as being released from the future communication system in some embodiments the content is stored in a cloud storage and the future communication system triggers the release of the content from the cloud to the recipient.

In some embodiments the system releases the content by automatically generating a physical reproduction of some or all of the content . For example if the content includes photos or text and the contact information of a recipient includes a physical address the system of some embodiments automatically prints the photos and text for delivery to the physical address.

The future communication system of some embodiments authenticates the identity of the recipient before releasing the content to the recipient . For instance the system of some embodiments requests authentication information e.g. provided by the user when the user defined the recipient s data from the recipient in order to determine that the recipient is indeed the intended recipient of the content . Examples of authentication information include a social security number a driver s license number the recipient s mother s maiden name the name of the recipient s first pet the names of each of the recipient s parents or any other type of information for determining the identity of the recipient . In some embodiments the system requests the recipient provide a combination of different authentication information in order to authenticate the identity of the recipient .

While illustrates an example of content that is for release to one individual a user may specify any number of the same and or different recipients. For instance the recipients of content may include an individual a group of individuals folders public forums websites blogs a public gallery or repository data storage banks newspaper publishers non profit organizations governmental agencies or any other type of entity that is capable of receiving or accessing the content once the system releases it.

The process starts by receiving at event description data a set of recipients and content for release to the set of recipients upon the detection of a future event. In some embodiments the event description data specifies a set of event condition rule sets of an event that has not yet occurred. The process the process receives the set of recipients as data included recipient data e.g. recipients data shown in . The content e.g. video audio photos text etc. is for release upon the detection of the occurrence of an event. The process may receive the event description data the set of recipients and the content together at the same time or may receive the event description data set of recipients and content separately and or at different times e.g. in separate transactions .

Next the process determines at whether the event is detected. Different embodiments employ any number of different techniques to determine whether the event is detected. For example the process of some embodiments accesses a set of data sources to search for data that satisfies the event condition rule sets specified for the event. As described above different data sources are accessed for detecting whether the event has occurred. In some embodiments the process analyzes the data retrieved from the set of data sources e.g. validating the data assessing the credibility of the data s data sources etc. . When the process determines that the event is not detected the process returns to to continue determining whether the event is detected e.g. immediately after a specified period of time etc. .

Once the process determines that the event has been detected the process initiates at a process that triggers the release of the content to the set of recipients specified in the recipient data. As noted above recipients of content may include a variety of different entities that can access the content. In some embodiments the process requests each recipient of the content to authenticate the recipient s identity by requesting from the recipient information that uniquely identifies the identity of the recipient. Either automatically or once a recipient has been authenticated the process of some embodiments releases the content to the user e.g. from a cloud storage at which the content is stored .

Some of the figures describe above and below illustrate users of the future communication system of some embodiments as individuals or persons for purposes of simplicity and explanation. The users of the future communication system of some embodiments may include a group of individuals an entity e.g. a university a corporation a non profit organization a newspaper etc. a computing device etc.

Several more detailed embodiments are described below. Section I describes details of the overall system of some embodiments. Section II then describes details of the front end system of some embodiments. Section III describes the details of the back end system of some embodiments. Section IV describes other content release features of the future communication system of some embodiments. Finally Section V describes an electronic system with which some embodiments of the invention are implemented.

As shown the future communication system includes a communication manager an event configurator an event scanning engine a notification and authentication manager and a content control manager . The future communication system also includes content data storage event definitions storage recipient data storage data source identifiers IDs storage and received raw data storage .

The content data storage stores content for release upon the detection of an event or series of events . As described above in some embodiments the content includes video audio photos text or any other type of digital media or a combination of any number of the same and or different types of media. The event definitions storage stores data generated by the event configurator for use by the event scanning engine to detect events that trigger the release of content to designated recipients of the content. The recipient data storage stores information about the recipients of the content e.g. recipients IDs recipient contact information authentication rules and or IDs mechanisms for releasing content etc. . The received raw data storage stores unprocessed event configuration data e.g. event description data recipient data and content as received by the system . The data source IDs storage stores unique data source IDs and the data source information to which the data source IDs refer. In some embodiments the data source information to which a particular data source ID refers includes data source location information e.g. a website uniform resource locator URL an Internet Protocol IP address a Media Access Control MAC address etc. and data source access information e.g. an application programming interface API a database connection string a username and password etc. .

In some embodiments the storages are stored in one physical storage while in some embodiments the storages are stored on separate physical storages. Still in some embodiments some of the storages are stored in one physical storage while other storages are stored in separate physical storages. For example some embodiments store some or all of the data in cloud storage. For example some embodiments store the content data in one or more cloud storages while the other data is stored in physical storage local to the system .

The communication manager is responsible for managing sets of event configuration data that are received from users of the future communication system . As shown in a set of event configuration data includes event description data content data and recipient data. In some embodiments when the communication manager receives a set of event configuration data the communication manager stores the set of event configuration data in the received raw data storage . In addition the communication manager sends the event description data and the recipients data to the event configurator for processing.

In some embodiments the communication manager provides mechanisms e.g. a web application a web service etc. through which users may define a set of event configuration data for transmission to the communication manager . Alternatively or in conjunction with providing such mechanisms the communication manager of some embodiments allows users to send the communication manager sets of event configuration data that the users defined through applications operating on a mobile device a desktop computer or any other type of device that can communication with the system .

In some embodiments the communication manager also handles the processing of a portion of the event configuration data. For instance the communication manager of some embodiments processes e.g. normalizes transcodes etc. the content data and stores the processed content data in the content data storage e.g. sends the data to a cloud storage system .

In some embodiments the communication manager generates additional content data to store along with the processed content data. For example the communication manager may generate URLs to Wikipedia entries books for purchase photos articles etc. that relate to the event condition rule sets of an event associated with the content data. The system of some embodiments releases both the user specified content data i.e. the processed content data and the system generated content to specified recipients when the occurrence of the event is detected. As described in further detail below when the event is detected the future communication system of some embodiments generates additional content data to release to the specified recipients.

The event configurator is in charge of processing some of the data in the set of event configuration data. As noted above the event configurator receives the event description data and the recipient data from the communication manager for processing in some embodiments. To process the recipients data the event configurator of some embodiments performs data cleansing operations data normalization operations etc. to the recipient data before storing the data in the recipient data storage . In some embodiments the event configurator applies additional and or different processing operations to the recipient data.

In some instances the event configurator generates additional recipient data and stores it with the user specified recipient data. For instance the event configurator of some embodiments generates authentication rules and or IDs and stores them in the recipient data along with any authentication rules and or IDs specified in the recipient data.

In some embodiments the event configurator uses the event description data to generate an event definition for the event scanning engine to use for event detecting operations. For instance the event configurator of some embodiments generates the event definition based on the event condition rule sets of the event the data sources and the validation data in the event description data. Once the event definition is generated the event configurator stores it in the event definitions storage .

The event scanning engine is responsible for detecting the occurrence of events defined for the release of content. As explained above different embodiments use different techniques to detect the occurrence of events. In some embodiments the event scanning engine detects events by continuously scanning the specified data sources of events periodically scanning the specified data sources at defined intervals or scanning the specified data sources in response to a user s invocation of an on demand scan feature.

In some embodiments the event scanning engine detects the occurrence of events based on the event definitions in the event definitions storage . When the event scanning engine is scheduled to determine whether an event has occurred the event scanning engine identifies the corresponding event definition in the event definitions storage . Based on the identified event definition the event scanning engine accesses a set of user specified data sources and or system specified data sources and retrieves data from the data sources in order to determine whether the event is detected. The event scanning engine of some embodiments performs various analysis operations on the data received from the data sources e.g. by validating the data determining the credibility of the data sources from which the data is retrieved etc. in order to determine whether the event is detected.

When the event scanning engine detects the event the event scanning engine sends a message to the notification and authentication manager to trigger the release of the content associated with the event to specified recipients of the content. In some embodiments the event scanning engine stores in the event definitions storage data indicating that the event is detected in order for the event scanning engine to refrain from scanning data sources to attempt to detect the event.

As shown in the event scanning engine scans several data sources. One of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the several data sources illustrated in are only for purposes of simplicity and explanation and that the event scanning engine may access and or scan any number of data sources for detecting an event.

The notification and authentication manager handles the release of content when events associated with the content are detected. In some embodiments the notification and authentication manager receives messages from the event scanning engine to trigger the release of content to specified recipients of the content for a detected event.

When the notification and authentication manager receives a message to release content for a detected event the notification and authentication manager accesses the event definitions storage to identify the event definition of the detected event. Based on the identified event definition the notification and authentication manager 1 accesses the content data storage to identify the content to release and 2 accesses the recipient data storage to identify the recipients to which the content is to be released.

The notification and authentication manager of different embodiments triggers the release of content to the recipients differently. For example in some embodiments the notification and authentication manager sends a message e.g. an email a Facebook post an SMS message a tweet etc. to the recipients that indicates that the content is available for access e.g. on the system s storage in cloud storage etc. . Alternatively or in conjunction with sending a message the notification and authentication manager sends the content to each of the specified recipients and or to a location identified as belonging to the recipient e.g. an email address a Facebook account a Twitter account a mobile phone etc. or triggers the release of the content from cloud storage to the specified recipients. In some embodiments the notification and authentication manager requests each recipient to authenticate the recipient s identity. For example the notification and authentication manager of some embodiments requests from each recipient one or more pieces of information that uniquely identifies or verifies the identity of the recipient e.g. the recipient s social security number driver s license number the names of each of the recipient s parents etc. .

The content control manager provides content to recipients specified to receive the content. In some embodiments the content control manager receives a request from the notification and authentication manager to provide the content of a detected event to a specified set of recipients. The content control manager of some embodiments also receives from the notification and authentication manager information that includes 1 the manner in which the content is provided e.g. upload stream email print and mail etc. and 2 the recipient s location information e.g. an Internet Protocol IP address an email address a mobile phone number etc. . In some instance the information that the content control manager receives from the notification and authentication manager also includes format information that indicates a particular format that the recipient requires to access the content. In some instances before the content control manager provides the content to the recipient the content control manager automatically transcodes the content to another media format based on the format information. Alternatively or in conjunction with receiving the request and other content request information the content control manager of some embodiments receives such information directly from the recipient. In some such embodiments the content control manager requests authentication information from the recipient in a similar manner as that described above by reference to the notification and authentication manager .

An example operation of the future communication system will now be described. The operation starts when the communication manager receives a set of event configuration data from a user. As shown the communication includes content that is for release to a set of recipients upon detection of an event event description data that defines the event and recipient data that specifies the set of recipients.

When the communication manager receives the set of event configuration data the communication manager stores the unprocessed set of event configuration data in the received raw data storage . The communication manager then performs a variety of different processing operations on the content and stores the processed content in the content data storage . Next the communication manager sends the event description data and the recipient data to the event configurator for processing.

When the event configurator receives the event description data from the communication processor the event configurator generates an event definition for the event scanning engine to use in order to detect the occurrence of the event defined in the event description data e.g. including a group of event condition rule sets . The event configurator then stores the generated event definition in the event definitions storage for the event scanning engine to access at a later time.

When the event scanning engine schedules an event detection operation for the event the event scanning engine performs the event detection operation in order to determine whether to trigger release of the content. To detect the occurrence of the event the event scanning engine uses the event definition to access a set of user specified data sources and or system specified data sources and retrieves data from the data sources. The event scanning engine then analyzes the retrieved data e.g. by performing semantic analysis on the data validating the data determining the credibility of the data sources from which the data is retrieved etc. in order to determine whether the event is detected.

Until the event scanning engine detects the event the event scanning engine continuously scans the data sources periodically scans the data sources at defined intervals or scans the determined data sources in response to a user s invocation of an on demand scan feature to determine whether the event has occurred. When the event scanning engine determines that the event has occurred i.e. the event scanning engine has detected the event the event scanning engine 1 notifies the notification and authentication manager to release the content and 2 stores in the event definitions storage data indicating that the event has been detected.

When the notification and authentication manager receives the notification from the event scanning engine to release the content the notification and authentication manager accesses the event definitions storage to identify the detected event. Based on the identified event the event definitions storage 1 accesses the recipient data storage to identify the specified recipients of the content and 2 accesses the content data storage to identify the content. For each recipient the notification and authentication manager of some embodiments requests the recipient to authenticate the recipient s identity by requesting from the recipient one or more pieces of information that uniquely identifies the identity of the recipient e.g. the recipient s social security number driver s license number employer identification number EIN the names of each of the recipient s parents etc. . After the recipient successfully authenticates the recipient s identity the notification and authentication manager sends a message e.g. an email a Facebook post an SMS message a tweet etc. to the recipient that indicates that the content is available for the recipient to access.

When any of the recipients of content request to access the content the content control manager provides the content to recipient in the manner requested in some embodiments. When the recipient requests the content in a particular format the content control manager of some embodiments automatically transcodes the content to the requested format and then provides the transcoded content to the recipient.

As described above some embodiments provide a future communication system for releasing content to recipients upon the occurrence of defined events for the content. In some embodiments the future communication system includes a front end system that handles the processing of content created by and received from users of the system. Specifically the front end system facilitates the creation of content and configures events for event detection operations performed by the back end system of the future communication system of some embodiments. The following section will describe various examples and embodiments of a front end system that implements the content creation and event configuration features of the future communication system of some embodiments.

As illustrated in the communication manager includes a communication interface an event specifying interface a communication processor and a normalizing module . In addition the communication manager includes a content data storage and an event specifying constructs storage .

The content data storage is similar to the content data storage described above by reference to . That is the content data storage stores content for release upon the occurrence of one or more event condition rule sets specified in the definition of the event. The event specifying constructs storage stores 1 event specifying constructs and 2 different event specifying definitions that specify different sets of event specifying constructs for different types of events. In some embodiments an event specifying definition specifies one or more of the same and or different event specifying constructs. In some embodiments an event specifying construct includes a set of data fields and or a set of operators e.g. greater than less than equal to not equal to etc. that operate on one or more of the data fields.

The event specifying constructs storage of some embodiments also stores a unique construct ID for each event specifying construct stored in the event specifying constructs storage . This way the event specifying constructs storage stores one instance of a particular event specifying construct. Any event specifying definition that is defined to include the particular event specifying construct references the construct ID of the particular event specifying construct.

The communication interface facilitates communication between users and the communication manager . In some embodiments the communication interface translates data information and or signals between the users and the communication manager . In some embodiments the communication interface includes a web server a web service and or any other type of mechanisms for communication with users etc.

For instance when the communication interface receives a request from a user through a web application running in a web browser of the user s computing device to define an event description the communication interface identifies the type of event the user is requesting and forwards the identified type of event to the event specifying interface .

Continuing with the example when the communication interface receives from the event specifying interface a set of event specifying constructs in response to the user s request the communication interface processes the data in a format that is compatible with the web application and or the manner in which the web application communicates.

As another example when the communication interface receives from a user a set of event configuration data created by an application operating on the user s desktop computer as a series of data packets the communication interface collects the data packets reconstructs the event description data the content and the recipients data and forwards it to the communication processor for processing.

The event specifying interface provides to a user a set of event specifying constructs for the user to define an event description. In some embodiments the event specifying interface provides different sets of event specifying constructs based on requests to define event descriptions for different types of events. This allows the future communication system of some embodiments to effectively detect the occurrence of different types of events. For instance when a user defines content to be released upon an individual s death the event specifying interface provides one particular set of event specifying constructs. For instance an example of an event specifying construct includes a first data field for receiving input of a name of the individual a second data field that describes the first data field e.g. Name and an equal operator operating on the two fields. Additional event specifying constructs for this example include a date of birth of the individual an address of the individual the individual s family members a social security number of the individual etc.

When the user defines content to be released when an individual graduates from college the event specifying interface provides a different set of event specifying constructs e.g. name of individual name of college etc. . In some embodiments the event specifying interface also provides suggestions of event specifying constructs other than the event specifying constructs defined for the particular type of event that the user is defining in order to allow the system to better detect the occurrence of the event.

When the event specifying interface receives a request from a user to define an event description for a particular type of event the event specifying interface accesses the event specifying constructs storage to identify the event specifying definition for the particular type of event. Based on the identified event specifying definition the event specifying interface identifies the specified set of event specifying constructs in the event specifying construct storage which the event specifying interface provides to the user.

The communication processor is responsible for managing data sent to the communication manager . For instance when the communication processor receives through the communication interface a request from a user to define an event description the communication interface forwards the request to the event specifying interface to handle the request in some embodiments.

When the communication processor receives through the communication interface a set of event configuration data from a user the communication interface of some embodiments forwards the event description data and the recipient data to the event configurator for processing.

In some embodiments a user may define a set of event configuration data that allows the user as well as other individuals to add content to the content that will be released upon the detection of an event. When the communication processor of some such embodiments receives content from the user and or other users the communication processor identifies the event to which the content belongs and associates the content with the identified event before forwarding the content to the normalizing module for processing and storing in the content data storage .

The normalizing module processes content received from the communication processor and stores it in the content data storage . When the normalizing module receives content from a set of event configuration data the module of some embodiments performs normalization operations on the content and in some cases automatically transcodes the content into a particular format e.g. a format commonly requested by users a lossless format a compressed format for reducing storage space etc. before storing the content in the content data storage .

As discussed above the communication manager of some embodiments generates additional content data to store along with the processed content data. In this example the normalizing module generates the system specified content data and stores it in the content data storage .

An example operation of the communication manager will now be described. The operation begins when the event specifying interface receives a request from a user through the communication interface for defining an event description for a particular type of event. Based on the request the event specifying interface accesses the event specifying constructs storage to identify the event specifying definition for the particular type of event. The event specifying interface then sends the specified set of event specifying constructs in the identified definition to the user.

Next the communication processor receives a set of event configuration data that includes content for release to a set of recipients upon detection of an event event description data that defines the event and recipient data that specifies the set of recipients. The communication processor forwards the content to normalizing module for processing and storing. The communication processor forwards the event description data and the recipient data to the event configuration for processing. When the normalizing module receives the content the normalizing module performs normalization operations on the content automatically transcodes the content into a particular format and stores the content in the content data storage .

The process begins by receiving at a request from a user for event specifying constructs for a type of event. In some embodiments the process receives the request when a user is initially defining an event description. The user specifies input for the event specifying constructs in order to define an event that triggers the release of content when the event is detected.

Next the process determines at whether the type of event is predefined. As mentioned above the event specifying constructs storage stores event specifying definitions of different sets of event specifying constructs for different types of events. In some embodiments the process determines that the type of event is predefined when the process identifies an event specifying definition for the type of event in the event specifying constructs storage . In such instances the process proceeds to . Otherwise the process determines that the type of event is not predefined and proceeds to .

At the process provides to the user the event specifying constructs defined for the type of event. In some embodiments the process 1 identifies the set of event specifying constructs specified in the identified event specifying definition for the type of event and 2 provides the input data fields to the user. The user uses the set of event specifying constructs to define an event of the type for which event specifying constructs were requested. After providing the event specifying constructs the process proceeds to .

At the process provides the user event specifying constructs for a generic event. In some embodiments the generic event specifying constructs provide more flexibility and customization in terms of defining an event and or an acceptable risk level assumed for false positive matches. In some embodiments the event specifying constructs for the custom event include data fields for describing other data fields. For instance when a user wishes to specify Prince performing in San Jose as an event for the content the user may specify Prince in a first custom data field and music artist in a second custom data field that is defined to describe the first data field. This allows the user to distinguish the musical artist Prince from a prince in the royalty sense. Alternatively or in conjunction with using custom fields to describe other custom fields some embodiments provide a feature that allows the user to specify input and descriptions for the input in a single data field. Some embodiments allow the user to upload a file e.g. an extensible markup language XML file that specifies custom event specifying constructs and values for those fields. Many additional and or other techniques are possible for allowing the user to create custom defined events for the content.

The process then receives at the event description the content for delivery and recipient data e.g. recipients of the content information for authenticating recipients etc. from the user. In some embodiments the process receives the data for the set of event description data the content and the recipient data separately and or at different times.

Finally the process stores at the received event description data the content and recipient data for processing. In some embodiments the process processes the data before storing the data. For instance the process of some embodiments performs normalization operations on the content and automatically transcodes the content into a particular format e.g. a format commonly requested by users a lossless format a compressed format for reducing storage space etc. . The process may perform additional and or other processing operations to the data in some embodiments.

In some embodiments the front end system provides a feature that allows users to select one or more integration applications in order to define an event for a content release. An integration application in some embodiments is an application developed by designers of the system or third party developers. The integration application is used for integrating with one or more data sources e.g. Google search the Facebook website a news website etc. . In some embodiments the integration application serves as an interface to the data sources for which the application is developed and simplifies access to those data sources.

When a user selects a particular integration application the user is prompted to provide parameters that specify the event condition rule sets under which an event is considered as detected. For example a user might provide parameters for an integration application developed to access Google search that specifies that the application must return five possible event matches e.g. search results that is indicative of the occurrence of an event to a specific search string for three consecutive days in order to constitute a detected event. By allowing the user to control when a content is released the user can define complex and detailed events to trigger the release of content. In addition a user may specify the event condition rule sets for a combination of multiple integration applications to define even more complex and detailed events upon which a content is released. As such the integration application feature provides users a simpler and easier way to define different custom and or complex events.

Third party developers and or designers of the system may develop and add integration applications at any time to the system in order to expand the number of different data sources that the future communication system of some embodiments can access thereby enabling the system to scale the different types of events that the system can handle. In addition this feature relieves the system of the burden of handling complexly defined events because instead of processing the complex defined events the system merely passes input specified by the user to a specified integration application and allows the application to handle access to the data sources.

As shown the event configurator includes an event configurator processor a recipient data generator and an event definition generator . In addition the event configurator includes or utilizes data from an event definition storage and a recipient data storage .

The event definition storage and the recipient data storage are similar to the corresponding data storages described above by reference to . That is the event definition storage stores information about events which includes data from event descriptions specified by the creators of the events as well as in some cases additional information generated by the event configurator to define the events. In some embodiments for a particular event this information may include event condition rule sets for detecting the event data sources to use in detecting the event data sources not to use in detecting the event information for validating the event etc. In some embodiments event definition storage also stores conditions that are used for detecting events that trigger the release of content to designated recipients.

The recipient data storage includes information about the recipients of the content upon detection of the various events defined in the event definition storage . In some embodiments this information includes a list of recipients to which content will be released upon detection of each different event as well as information for authenticating the recipients. For each recipient some embodiments store a recipient identifier e.g. a name a unique ID etc. recipient contact information e.g. where the content should be delivered such as an e mail address etc. authentication rules and or authentication ID and the mechanism s by which to deliver content to the recipient. In some embodiments the storages and are stored in one physical storage while in other embodiments the storages are stored on separate physical storages.

The event configurator processor handles the receipt of event description data and recipient information at the event configurator and passes this information to the recipient data generator and the event definition generator for additional processing. In some embodiments the event configurator processor receives this information from the communication manager. The event configurator processor may also retrieve the information from a storage in some embodiments. Upon receiving this information the event configurator processor identifies the recipient information and sends this information to the recipient data generator while also identifying the user provided event description data and sending this information to the event definition generator .

The recipient data generator receives the recipient information provided by the user and generates storeable recipient data to send to the recipient data storage . In some embodiments the recipient data generator normalizes the recipient information into a defined format standard before storing it in the recipient data storage . The normalization may include conversion of data types e.g. numerical data to textual data removing certain white space special characters punctuation marks etc. removing certain words changing data formats or other normalization operations. The recipient data generator stores the recipient data in a structured normalized fashion.

The event definition generator of some embodiments normalizes the event description data and generates an event definition based on the normalized event description data. In some embodiments the event description received from the user and the stored event definition are the same while in other embodiments the event definition generator modifies removes or appends data to generate the event definition.

As stated the event definition generator of some embodiments normalizes the event description data into a defined format standard. The normalization may include conversion of data types e.g. numerical data to textual data removing certain white space special characters punctuation marks etc. removing certain words e.g. articles etc. and or characters changing data formats e.g. from Month Day Year to mm dd yyyy or other normalization operations.

The event definition generator generates the event definition from the normalized data. In some embodiments the event definition includes one or more event condition rule sets conditions validation rules credibility rules and data sources. The event definition generator may also specifically exclude specific data sources in some embodiments. The event conditions in some embodiments are conditions used to predict whether an event has occurred. When at least some of these conditions are met i.e. satisfied or matched the system detects the event thereby initiating a process to release content to the recipients for the event.

The event condition rules are used to specify a search expression in some embodiments. This search expression may be directly specified by the user that creates the event or may be derived from information provided by the user e.g. if the user specifies that the event is the birth of a recipient s child the event definition generator may derive search phrases that typically indicate such an event .

Based on the nature of the data sources the event definition generator may generate different event condition rules for specific data sources. Many data sources provide access through APIs that require a particular set of parameters often in a particular standard format. Thus for a data source accessible via such an API the event definition generator when normalizing the event description data generates conditions that conform to the format of the API s parameters which allows the event scanning engine to use the event definition.

In some embodiments the event definition generator modifies and or augments the event condition rules in order to provide better event detection. For instance the event definition generator in some embodiments adds synonymous search terms to the existing search terms e.g. add United States to the search term U.S. or US . In some embodiments the event definition generator replaces the existing search terms instead of adding to the existing search terms e.g. to format a search term for a particular data source . The event definition generator performs similar operations to API parameters in some embodiments.

The event condition rules may be grouped into one or more event condition rule sets. In some embodiments the event condition rules are grouped into sets based on data source type of analysis performed e.g. image analysis textual analysis etc. condition met via the analysis etc.

The validation rules of some embodiments are used to validate an event condition rule set that has been met e.g. by validating the data sources used to determine that the condition was matched while the credibility rules are used to determine the credibility of a satisfied condition e.g. by assessing how credible a particular data source is that was used to match the condition .

The data sources in some embodiments include both data sources provided by the creator of the event as well as specific data sources auto generated by the system. Some embodiments include a set of default data sources to use unless specifically excluded for any event and some embodiments include specific data sources to use unless specifically included for particular types of events. Examples of data sources include a social security admin office e.g. to query for a particular individual s death certificate newspaper sources e.g. to query for obituaries engagement wedding announcements birth announcements etc. hospital records e.g. to query for coroner s reports or birth records Internet pages sites ancestry websites e.g. to query ancestry via an API social media websites to scan postings e.g. on Facebook Walls Google Plus Streams etc. via permission granted estate trustees legal counsel via permission granted the Internal Revenue Service IRS records via permission granted credit card companies via permission granted .

In some embodiments the data sources generated by the event definition generator is a list of data sources for the particular event. For a particular data source the event definition stores a reference to further information about the data source which can be reused by definitions for multiple different events e.g. numerous events might reference the same newspaper sources . The data source information may include data source location information e.g. a website uniform resource locator URL an Internet Protocol IP address a Media Access Control MAC address etc. and data source access information e.g. an application programming interface API a database connection string a username and password etc. that enables the system to access data in the particular data source.

An example operation of the event configurator will now be described. Specifically the operation will be described by reference to which conceptually illustrates a process of some embodiments for generating an event definition that is used for detecting an event. In some embodiments the event configurator described above by reference to performs the process to generate event data.

As shown the process begins by receiving at event description and recipient data. In the event configurator the event configuration processor handles the receipt of this data e.g. from the communication manager . In other embodiments the event configuration processor retrieves the information from a storage e.g. a volatile memory or non volatile storage into which the communication manager stored the information .

Next the process normalizes and stores at the recipient data. In some embodiments the recipient data generator normalizes the recipient information into a defined format standard before storing it in the recipient data storage . The normalization may include conversion of data types e.g. numerical data to textual data removing certain white space special characters punctuation marks etc. removing certain words changing data formats or other normalization operations. The recipient data generator stores the recipient data in a structured normalized fashion.

In some embodiments the stored information for the event includes a list of recipients to which content will be released upon detection of the event as well as information for authenticating the recipients. For each recipient some embodiments store a recipient identifier e.g. a name a unique ID etc. recipient contact information e.g. where the content should be delivered such as an e mail address etc. authentication rules and or authentication ID and the mechanism s by which to deliver content to the recipient.

The process then normalizes data for the described event into a defined format standard. Some embodiments may only normalize some of the data e.g. because the format may not matter for some data or because the format is already correct as received in the event description while other embodiments normalize all of the data. The normalization may include conversion of data types e.g. numerical data to textual data removing certain white space special characters punctuation marks etc. removing certain words e.g. articles etc. and or characters changing data formats e.g. from Month Day Year to mm dd yyyy or other normalization operations. In some embodiments the data is normalized for particular data sources to be searched.

Based on the normalized data for the described event the process generates at an event definition for use in the event detection process. As described above the event definition of some embodiments includes a group of event condition rule sets conditions to be met validation rules credibility rules and data sources.

The event condition rules in some embodiments are used to specify a search expression for searching one or more data sources. This search expression may be directly specified by the user in the event description or may be derived from information provided by the user e.g. if the user specifies that the event is the death of a recipient s parent the event definition generator may derive search phrases indicative of such an event and tailored to different data sources . The search expressions may be simply strings of text to find in a data source but may also include semantic text analysis e.g. whether a first word set is found within a particular distance of a second word set where a particular word set is found etc. image analysis e.g. whether an image can be found that matches a reference image to at least a particular threshold etc. The event condition rules of some embodiments are used to determine whether a condition has been met i.e. satisfied or matched .

The validation rules of some embodiments are used to validate an event condition rule set that has been met e.g. by validating the data sources used to determine that the condition was matched while the credibility rules are used to determine the credibility of a satisfied condition e.g. by assessing how credible a particular data source is that was used to match the condition .

In some embodiments the generated event definition includes a list of data sources for the event. As indicated above for a particular data source the event definition stores a reference to further information about the data source which can be reused by definitions for multiple different events e.g. numerous events might reference the same newspaper sources . In generating the list of data sources the event definition generator of some embodiments includes specified data sources to use for detecting the event as part and excludes any data sources specified for exclusion in the event description. Some embodiments include a set of default data sources to use unless specifically excluded for any event and some embodiments include specific data sources to use unless specifically included for particular types of events. In some cases the event description received from the user does not include any data sources in which case the set of data sources will be entirely auto generated. In some embodiments however the communication manager prevents the user from submitting an event description without any data sources.

The front end system of some embodiments provides an integration application feature that allows users to select one or more integration applications in order to define an event. For example in some such embodiments when the user specifies an integration application to use for triggering the release of a content the event configurator identifies the specified integration application e.g. by accessing an integration application storage that stores integration applications and generates event data that conforms to the format of the parameters that are used as input to the integration application.

The description of several of the figures above discusses the processing of event description and related data and generating an event definition for an event. In some embodiments the front end system generates and stores a data structure to represent a defined event. conceptually illustrates a data structure for an event definition that is stored by the future communication system of some embodiments.

As shown the data structure includes an event definition ID a reference to content a subject line tags comments recipients a group of event condition rule sets data sources and other data . The event definition ID is a unique identifier for the particular event.

The reference to content is a pointer or other reference to the actual data or a compressed encoded version of the actual data for displaying and or playing the content e.g. pixel and frame data for video content sound data for audio content pixel data for photo content character data for text content etc. . The reference to content in may refer to a single piece of content e.g. a single video text string etc. or may refer to multiple pieces of content for either separate delivery or delivery in a single package e.g. for a many to one content release feature which is described below in some embodiments.

The content data of different embodiments are stored in different locations. For instance the content data may be stored in a local location e.g. stored as a file in a file system of a server on which the system runs . In such cases the reference to content refers to the local location. The content data of some embodiments is stored in another server e.g. stored in a third party cloud storage server . In some such embodiments the reference to content stores a reference to the content data stored in the other server.

Subject line is information specified by the creator of the event e.g. a user of the future communication system or automatically generated by the system for the subject line of a communication delivering the content to a recipient. For instance when the system releases content by emailing the content to a recipient the information stored in subject line is used for the subject line of the email.

Tags store information specified by the creator of the event to associate with the content and or communication delivering the content. For instance the creator of the event in some embodiments might specify wedding and brother as tags for content that is to be released when the creator s brother gets married.

Comments includes information related to the event s content. The information is specified in some embodiments by the creator of the event contributors of content for the event e.g. for a many to one content release feature recipients of the content or any other entity that accesses the content. The information may include remarks comments opinions observations etc.

The recipients stores information for or references to information for one or more recipients specified by the creator of the event and the manner in which to contact each recipient e.g. email address Facebook account Twitter account phone number etc. . Examples of recipients include an individual a group of individuals folders public forums websites blogs a public gallery or repository data storage banks newspaper publishers non profit organizations for profit companies governmental agencies or any other type of entity that is capable of accessing the content once it is released. When the content is released based on a detection of the event the system releases the content to each of the specified recipients. In addition the recipient information includes authentication data and a mechanism for releasing the content e.g. whether to deliver to one or all of the contacts for the recipient a preference of which contacts to use etc. .

The authentication information includes information specified by the creator of the event for authenticating the identity of the recipient. Examples of such information include a social security number a driver s license number the names of each of the recipient s parents a maiden name or any other type of information for uniquely identifying or verifying the identity of the recipient. In some embodiments the authentication data also includes a username and or password to use in order to login to a particular service in order to deliver the content.

The group of event condition rule sets stores one or more event condition rule sets or stores references to the event condition rule sets . As shown each event condition rule set includes one or more event condition rules as well as validation conditions and credibility conditions for the event condition rules. In some embodiments each event condition rule or rule set specifies a search expression or can be used to derive such an expression enabling the system to search one or more data sources for data that satisfies the expression. The system performs analysis on the data stored in the specified data sources in order to determine whether the data sources have data satisfying the event condition rule sets. In some embodiments each event condition rule or event condition rule set is associated with a particular data source and is formatted particularly to that data source.

Each event condition rule set or in other embodiments each event condition rule includes validation conditions and credibility conditions. The validation conditions in some embodiments includes a validation level specified by the creator of the event that represents an extent to which an event condition rule or rule set must be matched in order to be validated or a risk level of false positive matches acceptable to the creator of the event. In some embodiments each event condition rule set may have a low medium or high validation level. In some embodiments a low validation level requires validation of the event from a reputable data source a medium validation level requires additionally validation from the creator of the configured event and a high validation level further requires validation from a third party or a combination of parties e.g. both a reputable data source and a third party . One of ordinary skill in the art will understand that aforementioned validation levels represent only one possible example. Any number of validation levels or permutations involving validation by the system creator of the event etc. are possible and each validation can have additional and or different validation methods.

The credibility conditions in some embodiments specifies a threshold credibility for each matched and validated event condition rule or rule set. As described below different data sources may have different credibility ratings in some embodiments and the credibility conditions specify a threshold above which the data source credibility rating must lie in order for the data source to be considered credible.

The data sources are specific data sources provided by the creator of the event or automatically generated by the system e.g. based on the event type that should be searched in order to detect an event. As shown multiple data sources may be specified for a single event. In some embodiments the data sources are references e.g. using a data source ID to data source information stored elsewhere so that a single data source data structure which provides information on how to access the data source etc. may be referenced by several events.

The other data stores any additional data that the future communication system of some embodiments might store with a event. This includes for example the type of event e.g. birth death engagement wedding etc. a flag for indicating that the event has been detected and the content released etc.

One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the data structure is only one possible data structure that the future communication system of some embodiments might use to store the required information for a communication. For example different embodiments might store additional or less information store the information in a different order store some or all of the information in separate data structures reference through pointers etc.

In addition the data structure illustrated in is a conceptualization of data attributes of an event definition and the organization of the data that represents the event definition and other data structures. Different embodiments use different methods to implement the data structure. For instance in some embodiments the data structure is implemented as an XML file. The data structure of some embodiments is implemented in a database e.g. a relational database . Many other methods for implementing the data structure are possible.

As discussed above in some embodiments the event specifying construct provider provides different sets of event specifying constructs for different types of events so that the future communication system is able to effectively detect the occurrence of different types of events. In addition the event configurator of some embodiments identifies different sets of data sources for different types of events. This section will describe several example types of events an example set of event specifying constructs for each type of event and an example set of data sources for each type of event that may be specified by a user or the system of some embodiments.

For a content that is defined to be released upon an individual s death the event specifying construct provider of some embodiments provides the following event specifying constructs the name of the individual the date of birth of the individual the social security number of the individual family members information of the individual an address that was previously associated with the individual or an address that is registered to the individual via property tax filings to a deceased party the name of individual s spouse and other event specifying constructs that may be required for validation e.g. navy rank company name former name nickname etc. .

An example set of data sources for detecting the individual s death includes the following data sources social security administration office to query for the individual s name social security number and associated references to the individual s death or death certificate newspaper sources to query obituaries hospital records to query for death certificate or coroner s reports Internet pages sites social media websites to scan postings e.g. on Facebook Walls Google Plus Streams etc. via permission granted by the individual estate trustees legal counsel the Internal Revenue Service IRS records via permission granted by the individual and credit card companies via permission granted by the individual .

The next example type of event is a content that is defined to be released when an individual has a wedding i.e. gets married . The event specifying construct provider of some embodiments provides the following event specifying constructs the name of the individual the date of birth of the individual information regarding the individual s location the individual s social security number and an address that was previously associated with the individual or an address that is registered to the individual via property tax filings.

The following data sources are examples of data sources that are used for detecting the individual s marriage county records to query for a marriage license newspapers to query for engagement announcements wedding registry websites websites created by engaged couples social media websites to scan postings e.g. on Facebook Walls Google Plus Streams etc. via permission granted by the individual registration databases that are provided by the system in some embodiments that allow wedding planners photographers caterers and cake makers to register their engaged client base.

Another type of event is a content that is defined to be released upon the election of the first female U.S. President. In some embodiments the event specifying construct provider provides the following event specifying constructs a set of triggering words and or phrases e.g. election of first female U.S. president first female U.S. President elected etc. contained in a set of news sources e.g. New York Times Washington Post Wall Street Journal etc. and electronic feeds provided by television news organizations. Examples of data sources that are used to detect the election of the first female U.S. President include the following news sources Internet blogs etc.

For a content that is defined to be released when a baby is born to a specific individual s lineage the event specifying construct provider of some embodiments provides the following event specifying constructs name of individual from which ancestry is determined the date of birth of the individual the names of each of the individual s parents and the individual s domicile.

An example set of data sources that are used for detecting the birth of a baby that belongs to an individual s lineage includes the following data sources county state and or hospital records to query for a birth certificate social security administration records various websites such as the ancestry.com website to query ancestry via an API Internet social media sites e.g. the Facebook website the Google Plus website etc. and news sources to query for birth announcements.

The next example type of event is a content that is defined to be released when an individual arrives at a particular geographical location. In some embodiments the event specifying construct provider provides the following event specifying constructs the name of the individual the cell phone number of the individual the latitude and longitude coordinates of the location at which to release the content the name of the location and the name of a business or residents at the location.

The following is an example of data sources that are used for detecting the individual s arrival at the specified geographical location cell phone towers satellite feeds mobile carriers social media websites to scan postings e.g. on Facebook Walls Google Plus Streams etc. via permission granted by the individual text messages sent to and received by the creator via permission granted by the recipient emails integrated or third party mobile applications operating on the individual s mobile device for querying the location of the mobile device via permission granted by the individual .

Another type of event is a content that is defined to be released upon an action taken by an individual who is also the recipient of the content. An example for this type of event is a content that is defined to be released upon an individual announcing a job promotion. The event specifying construct provider of some embodiments provides the following event specifying constructs the name of the individual and a set of triggering words and or phrases e.g. promotion or promoted in this example .

Example data sources for detecting the individual announcing a job promotion include the following the Internet social media websites to scan postings e.g. on Facebook Walls Google Plus Streams etc. via permission granted by the individual websites of newspapers the PR newswire website and text messages sent to and received by the individual via permission granted by the individual .

For a content that is defined to be released upon the engagement of an individual the event specifying construct provider of some embodiments provides the following event specifying constructs the name of the individual the social security number of the individual an address that was previously associated with the individual or an address that is registered to the individual via property tax filings and a set of triggering words and or phrases e.g. I just got engaged engagement etc. .

An example set of data sources that are used for detecting the engagement of the individual includes the following data sources social media websites to scan postings e.g. on Facebook Walls Google Plus Streams etc. via permission granted by the individual newspapers websites to query for engagement announcement wedding registry websites websites created by engaged couples and registration databases that are provided by the system in some embodiments that allow wedding planners photographers caterers and cake makers to register their engaged client base.

Yet another example type of event is a content that is defined to be released upon the sale acquisition or IPO of a company. In some embodiments the event specifying construct provider provides the following event specifying constructs the name of the company name appended to a set of triggering words or phrases e.g. IPO initial public offering S 1 acquisition merger etc. .

The following is an example of data sources that are used for detecting the sale acquisition IPO of a company news sources SEC records to query for SEC filings Internet websites and the PR Newswire website.

Lastly an example type of event is a content that is defined to be released when two or more events occur simultaneously or sequentially. An example of such a type of event is a content that is defined to be released when 1 the San Francisco 49ers play the New York Giants in the Superbowl and 2 the 49ers win. In some embodiments the event specifying construct provider provides the following event specifying constructs the names of the two teams appended to a set of triggering words or phrases e.g. 49ers win Superbowl 49ers Superbowl champions etc. . In order to be even more specific the even specifying construct can include the names of the two teams appended to aforementioned triggering phrases along with a date match for a date time in the future when compared to the creation date of the configured event.

An example set of data sources that are used for detecting that the 49ers play the New York Giants in the Superbowl and that the 49ers win include the following data sources news sources gambling sites team press releases and the Internet.

One of ordinary skill in the art will realize that the example types of events described above are only several of a countless number of different types of events. In addition the event specifying constructs listed for each example is only one possible set of event specifying constructs that is provided to the creator of the configured event. For instance additional and or different event specifying constructs are provided to the creator of the configured event in some embodiments. Also the data sources listed for each example is only one possible set of data sources that are used for detecting the event described in the example. In some embodiments additional and or different data sources are used for detecting the event.

The previous section describes various details of a front end system that is included in the future communication system of some embodiments for processing contents and generating event condition rule sets for event detection operations. In some embodiments the future communication system includes a back end system for managing the detection and validation of events and the release of content to recipients when events are detected. The following section will describe various examples and embodiments of a back end system that implements the event detection and validation and content release features of the future communication system of some embodiments.

As shown in the event scanning engine includes a scanning scheduler a data aggregator an event detector a validation module and a credibility module . Additionally the event scanning engine includes or utilizes a data source IDs storage and an event definitions storage which includes an event condition rule sets ECRS storage .

The data source IDs storage and the event definitions storage are similar to the corresponding storages described above by reference to . In other words the data source IDs storage stores unique data source IDs and the data source information to which the data source ID refers while the event definitions storage stores event definitions e.g. recipients to which content is released data sources to use to detect events information for validating events information for authenticating recipients etc. as described above by reference to . The ECRS storage which is part of event definition storage in some embodiments stores ECRS that are used for detecting and validating events that trigger the release of content to designated recipients of the content. In some embodiments the storages and are stored in one physical storage while in some embodiments the storages are stored on separate physical storages.

The scanning scheduler is responsible for scheduling scans of data sources to detect events for releasing contents. The scanning scheduler of some embodiments receives a notification that identifies an event e.g. an event ID from the event configurator after the event configurator has generated ECRS for the event. In some embodiments the scanning scheduler uses occasion types data source IDs and user provided scheduling instructions to schedule scans of data sources.

As noted above the event scanning engine of some embodiments continuously scans the data sources to identify data that satisfies the conditions specified in ECRS . In some such embodiments the scanning scheduler maintains a list of configured events for which scanning needs to be performed i.e. the contents associated with the events have not been released and schedules scanning operations for each event in the list. In some embodiments the scanning scheduler schedules scanning operations based on predicted detections of events traffic load on data sources and or other priority criteria established by the system or the creators of the contents. When the scanning scheduler receives the notification the scanning scheduler adds the notified content to the list. The scanning scheduler of such embodiments repeatedly iterates through the configured events in the list and removes a particular event from the list when the event specified for the particular content is detected and validated if a validation is required .

In some embodiments the scanning scheduler continuously schedules event detection i.e. the determination of whether an event has occurred by simultaneously scheduling event detection for multiple configured events at once. The scanning scheduler organizes the events into several groups such that the data sources that are accessed for the events in a particular group do not have any or a minimum amount of overlap. Organizing the contents in this fashion optimizes the number of data sources that can be accessed in parallel and decreases the amount of time waiting to access data sources.

As discussed above in some embodiments the event scanning engine performs event detection for triggering the release of a particular content or set of contents in response to a user s invocation of an on demand scan. Alternatively or conjunctively the event scanning engine of some embodiments detects events for triggering the release of a particular content at a defined interval e.g. thirty seconds five minutes an hour a day etc. . In addition the event scanning engine of some such embodiments may perform event detection for different events at different defined scheduling intervals e.g. determine whether a first event is detected once an hour and determine whether a second event is detected once a day . The scanning scheduler of different embodiments uses different schemes to schedule the determination of whether events have occurred at the defined intervals.

Under one approach the scanning scheduler of some embodiments maintains different lists for different defined scheduling intervals. For example in some such embodiments the scanning scheduler might maintain a list of configured events that are all scheduled for event detection once every ten minutes a list of configured events that are all scheduled for event detection once an hour etc. When the scanning scheduler receives a notification for a particular configured event from the event configurator the scanning scheduler identifies the interval at which to schedule event detection for the content and adds the content to the list that corresponds to the identified interval or creates one when no such list exists .

Using another approach the scanning scheduler of some embodiments maintains a single list of configured events for which event detection needs to be performed. In some embodiments the scanning scheduler associates with a configured event a time stamp that represents the time at which the event detection was scheduled for the event. For example the scanning scheduler in some embodiments stores the timestamp in a data structure that represents the content such as the one described above by reference to . This way when the scanning scheduler iterates through each configured event in the list continuously or at a defined interval such as the shortest scheduling interval defined for a event the scanning scheduler examines the content s timestamp and schedules the event if the amount of time between the time of the timestamp and the current time is equal to or greater than the defined scheduling interval for the event.

With this approach the scanning scheduler in some embodiments has the flexibility to balance or spread more evenly the scanning operations over a given amount of time. As a simple example if the event scanning engine is handling event detection for forty eight configured events and each event is defined to be scheduled once a day the scanning scheduler of some such embodiments has the flexibility to schedule one of the forty eight events every half hour which results in a relatively even load distribution throughout the day. In contrast if the scanning scheduler schedules all forty eight events at or near the same time the event scanning engine experiences a large load for a short amount of time each day and then sits idle for the rest of the day. While several scheduling schemes are described above one of ordinary skill in the art will realize that additional and or different schemes may be used in some embodiments.

When the scanning scheduler schedules a particular set of events the scanning scheduler identifies the ECRS for each of the events by accessing the ECRS storage and identifies the data sources specified for detecting the configured event by accessing the event definitions storage . Then the scanning scheduler sends the information to the data aggregator for accessing the data sources.

The data aggregator is responsible for accessing data sources and retrieving data from the data sources. When the data aggregator receives the ECRS and data from data sources for detecting an event the data aggregator simultaneously and or sequentially accesses each data source based on the corresponding ECRS for the data source. As noted above different data sources are accessed differently e.g. different number of parameters different parameter data formats etc. . That is each data source has its own protocol that is used to access the data source s data. For example data sources may be accessible through APIs database connections integration applications HTTP web page requests rich site summary RSS feeds etc.

The data aggregator then receives or retrieves from the data sources e.g. searches for data that satisfy the ECRS or in some embodiments that satisfies conditions specified in the ECRS . When the data aggregator receives data back from the data sources which is referred to as ECRS matches the data aggregator passes the data to the event detector . In some embodiments a ECRS match is data that is indicative of the occurrence of an event that is being detected. That is the data satisfies the ECRS or the conditions specified in one or more of the ECRS . In some cases the data aggregator does not receive any data or receives an empty set back from any of the data sources in response to a search specified by an ECRS which indicates that the ECRS has not been satisfied and the event has likely not occurred .

The event detector is responsible for detecting events. In some embodiments the event detector utilizes the validation module and the credibility module to detect the occurrence of events. When the event detector receives the possible ECRS matches from the data aggregator the event detector of some embodiments passes the possible ECRS matches to the validation module for validation which in turn passes validated ECRS matches to the credibility module when the validation module determines that the match of the ECRS is valid. When the validation module determines that the match of the ECRS is not valid the validation module does not return any ECRS matches or returns an empty set to the event detector . In some embodiments the event detector receives from the credibility module ECRS matches that are validated and determined to be credible.

In some instances the event detector may utilize only the validation module to detect the occurrence of events. In such instances the event detector receives from the validation module only validated ECRS matches while in some embodiments the event detector receives from the validation module validated ECRS matches and the remaining possible ECRS matches that could not be validated.

In other instances the event detector may utilize only the credibility module to detect the occurrence of events. The event detector in these instances receives from the credibility module only those ECRS matches that are determined to be credible while in some embodiments the event detector receives from the credibility module ECRS matches that are determined to be credible as well as the remaining possible ECRS matches that were not determined to be credible.

Once the event detector receives ECRS matches back from validation module or the credibility module the event detector determines that the event has been adequately detected. However in some embodiment when the number of ECRS matches that the event detector receives from the credibility module does not pass a threshold number the event detector determines that the event is not credible and thus the event has not been detected. In different embodiments the threshold number is for all ECRS matches from all data sources or is for all ECRS matches from a specific data source s .

When the event detector does not receive any ECRS matches or receives an empty set back the event detector determines that the event has not occurred. The event detector notifies the notification and authentication manager to initiate a process to trigger the release the content associated with the event i.e. the content specified for release upon detection of the event when the event detector determines that the event has occurred. As will be described below the process to release content includes authentication of the recipient s of the content in some embodiments.

However some contents are defined to be released upon the occurrence of multiple events and therefore the event detector must detect each of the events in order for the content to be released. When the event detector detects one of these events the event detector designates the event as detected e.g. by storing information indicating its detection in the data structure that represents the event in order to avoid performing event detection for the event again. The event detector then checks whether the other events upon which the release of the content is predicated have been detected. When all of events for the content are detected the event detector notifies the notification and authentication manager to initiate the process to release the content.

The validation module handles the validation of the possible ECRS matches that the validation module receives from the event detector . When the validation module determines that the event is validated the validation module passes the validated ECRS matches to the credibility module .

Different embodiments utilize any number of different techniques to validate the possible ECRS matches. For instance the validation module in some embodiments validates the possible ECRS matches by accessing a defined set of data sources e.g. Google search Facebook Wall reputable and or reliable news sources etc. . If the validation module receives ECRS matches from the set of data sources then the validation module determines that the possible ECRS matches are valid and thus validates the event. As another example the validation module might request validation from the creator of the event e.g. via an email a text message a tweet etc. as a form of event validation. Additional and or other validation methods are possible.

In addition a creator of an event can specify the manner in which the event is validated in some embodiments. For instance as discussed above a creator of the event can specify data sources for validating the ECRS matches. In some cases the creator specifies data sources that are used for both event detection purposes and validation purposes. For instance the creator might define an event that triggers the release of content upon the death of a particular individual and specify that the Social Security Administration s record database be used for purposes of detection and validation. Additional and or other creator specified ways to validate ECRS matches are possible. For instance the creator of the content can specify multiple different validation methods that must be passed in order for the validation module to determine that the event is validated. The creator can also specify a validation level e.g. low medium high for the content s events. For example low medium and high validation levels represent in some embodiments the number of required validation methods e.g. 1 2 and 3 that must be successfully passed in order for the validation module to determine that the event is validated.

The credibility module analyzes the credibility of data sources that returned 1 validated ECRS matches which are received from the validation module or 2 possible ECRS matches which are received from the event detector . In some embodiments the credibility of a data source represents the trustworthiness of the results the data source returns e.g. possible ECRS matches . The initial value e.g. a weighted value between 0 and 1 of the credibility attribute of a data source is manually provided e.g. by designers of event scanning engine in some embodiments. In some embodiments the value of the credibility attribute changes based on the following factors the number of followers of the data source e.g. for a particular social media feed the number of readers of the data source the current online clout e.g. contemporary thought leaders of the data source a meme factor e.g. current popularity on YouTube etc. of the data source the degree of separation between the data source and the creator of the content or a recipient of the content the level of common knowledge e.g. the Wall Street Journal vs. a high school stock club newsletter in content of the data source the educational level e.g. JD MD MBA CPA etc. of the author of the ECRS match es the number of stories written by the author of the ECRS match es validation of ECRS match es in peer review journals or blind studies the historical accuracy rate etc. Additionally a user may override the credibility attributes of data sources e.g. by specifying a particular data source as more trustworthy than another data source by specifying a value for the credibility attribute of a particular data source etc. .

The credibility module of some embodiments calculates a ranking score for each data source based on a credibility attribute of the data source. Based on the calculated ranking scores the credibility module of some such embodiments ranks the data sources e.g. high to low . Finally the credibility module determines the ECRS matches derived from data sources that have a ranking score exceeding a defined threshold score value as credible and trustworthy. In some embodiments the credibility module sends the identified ECRS matches to the event detector .

As mentioned above credibility is one of many factors used for ranking data sources in some embodiments. For instance additional factors that are used for calculating ranking scores of data sources include user preference of particular data sources historical data representing the rate of false positives e.g. 50 day moving average of rate of false positives 100 day moving average of rate of false positives etc. crowd sourced values for credibility attributes of data sources the currency of the data in the data source the accuracy of the data source e.g. based on the number of false positives etc. Additional and or other factors are used in some embodiments.

An example operation of the event scanning engine will now be described. In particular the example operation shown involves performing event detection operations for a single content. In some embodiments the event scanning engine performs event detection operations for contents in a sequential manner even if contents are scheduled for the same time . Furthermore the operation will be described by reference to which conceptually illustrates a process of some embodiments for detecting a particular configured event.

The operation starts when event scanning engine receives at the scanning scheduler a notification that identifies a particular configured event from the event configurator after the event configurator has generated ECRS for the content. In response the scanning scheduler adds the event of the content to the list maintained by the scanning scheduler . For purposes of explanation of this example the scanning scheduler next schedules event detection of the event that was added to the list.

The process starts by selecting at an ECRS from the group of ECRS for the event and identifying data source s to search for data that satisfies the selected ECRS. In this example the scanning scheduler performs this operation by accessing the ECRS storage to select the ECRS and accessing the event definitions storage and the data source IDs storage to identify the data sources. The scanning scheduler sends the information to the data aggregator to access the data sources.

Next the process uses at the selected ECRS to scan the data sources of the event in order to identify potential ECRS matches for the event of the content. In some embodiments the data aggregator simultaneously accesses the data sources based on the corresponding ECRS for the data sources while in some embodiments the data aggregator sequentially accesses each data source based on the corresponding ECRS for the data source. When the data aggregator receives data back from the data sources the data aggregator passes the data to the event detector . In some embodiments a ECRS match is data that satisfies the ECRS or satisfies conditions specified by the ECRS .

The process then determines at whether the selected ECRS is matched. In some embodiments the process determines that an ECRS is matched when the search query specified by or derived from the ECRS returns a positive hit in the data source s . That is when a particular search term is found a set of terms within a particular defined context of each other are found a particular image is matched to within a particular threshold etc. the ECRS is matched. When the ECRS is matched the process proceeds to which will be described further below.

When the process determines that the ECRS is not met the process determines at whether to terminate the search for data. In some embodiments the process determines whether to terminate the search based on scheduling instructions specified by the system. When the process determines at that the search be terminated the process ends. Otherwise the process proceeds to .

At the process determines whether there are additional ECRS for the event left to evaluate. If so the process loops back to to select another ECRS. Otherwise the process determines at whether the ECRS matches for the ECRS need validation. In some embodiments the process determines that validations are needed when the corresponding ECRS specify validation conditions. That is when a ECRS includes validation conditions the validation is needed. Otherwise the validation is not needed for the ECRS.

When the process determines at that the validation is not needed the process proceeds to which will be described further below. When the process determines at that the validation is needed the process proceeds to to determine whether the ECRS matches for the ECRS are validated. In this example operation the validation module performs the operation . As explained above different embodiments utilize any number of different techniques to validate the possible ECRS matches. When the validation module determines that the ECRS matches are valid the process proceeds to . Otherwise the process ends.

At the process determines whether the validated ECRS matches for the ECRS are credible. In this example the credibility module performs the operation . To determine whether the ECRS matches are credible the credibility module analyzes the credibility of data sources that returned validated ECRS matches received from the validation module by calculating a ranking score for each data source based on the credibility attribute of the data source. Based on the calculated ranking scores the credibility module 1 ranks the data sources and 2 determines the ECRS matches derived from data sources that have a ranking score exceeding a defined threshold score value are credible and trustworthy. When the credibility module determines that none of the ECRS matches are credible the process ends. In some embodiments the process also determines whether enough of the ECRS matches are both validated and credible and ends if there are not enough validated credible matches. When enough of the ECRS matches have passed all of the tests the process continues to .

At the process initiates a process to trigger the release of content for the event. In some embodiments the process initiates this process to release content by sending a message to a notification and authentication manager e.g. notification and authentication manager described above by reference to to process the release of the content associated with event to specified recipients of the content.

The specific operations of the process may not be performed in the exact order shown and described. The specific operations may not be performed in one continuous series of operations and different specific operations may be performed in different embodiments. For instance the operations could be performed for all conditions specified for all ECRS for the event in parallel rather than going through a single ECRS at a time. Also the operations could be performed for one data source specified in some or all of ECRS . One of the ordinary skill in the art will recognize may other different sequence of performing the operations of the process are possible.

As discussed above the event scanning engine of some embodiments schedules multiple events for event detection at the same time. In some embodiments the event scanning engine performs event detection for multiple events scheduled at the same time. conceptually illustrates a process of some embodiments for detecting multiple events defined by multiple event definitions. In some embodiments the event scanning described above by reference to performs the process when the event scanning engine schedules event detection of events for multiple contents at once.

The process begins by identifying at 1 ECRS for several event definitions i.e. configured events and 2 data sources for the several different event definitions. In some embodiments the process identifies the ECRS by accessing a data storage that stores ECRS for contents e.g. the ECRS storage described above by reference to and . Similarly the process of some embodiments identifies the data sources by accessing a data storage that stores the event definitions of the events e.g. the event definitions storage described above by reference to and .

Next the process uses at the ECRS to scan the data sources to identify possible ECRS matches for events of the contents. In some embodiments the process uses any of the methods described above to access data sources with ECRS . The process simultaneously accesses the data sources based on the corresponding ECRS for the data sources in some embodiments while the process sequentially accesses each data source based on the corresponding ECRS for the data source in some embodiments. After scanning the data sources the process of some embodiments receives data i.e. possible ECRS matches from some or all of the accessed data sources. In some cases the process does not receive any data or receives an empty set back from any of the data sources i.e. does not have any search hits for the ECRS for an event which indicates that the event has likely not occurred.

The process then analyzes at the validity and credibility of the identified possible ECRS matches. To analyze the validity of the identified possible ECRS matches the process of some embodiments uses any number of the techniques described above by reference to or additional and or other techniques as well.

In some embodiments the process analyzes the credibility of the possible ECRS matches after the process analyzes the validity of the possible ECRS matches. Some such embodiments analyze the credibility of only the validated ECRS matches while other such embodiments analyze the credibility of all the possible ECRS matches.

To analyze the credibility of the possible ECRS matches the process of some embodiments uses the ranking method described above by reference to . That is the process of such embodiments 1 calculates a ranking score for each data source based on the credibility attribute of the data source 2 ranks the data sources based on the calculated ranking scores and 3 determines the ECRS matches derived from data sources that have a ranking score exceeding a defined threshold score value are credible.

Next the process ascertains at whether the events are detected based on the validity and credibility of the possible ECRS matches. In some embodiments the process identifies the possible ECRS matches that are determined as valid and credible according to the analysis and identifies events corresponding to the valid and credible ECRS matches as detected events e.g. when enough of the ECRS defined for the event are matched valid credible .

Finally the process initiates at process for releasing contents for any detected events. In some embodiments the process initiates this process to release content by sending a message to a notification and authentication manager e.g. notification and authentication manager described above by reference to to process the release of the content associated with event to specified recipients of the content.

As shown the notification and authentication manager includes an authentication module a recipient interface and a notification generator . Additionally the notification and authentication manager includes an event definition storage and a recipient data storage . The event definition storage and the recipient data storage are similar to the corresponding data storages described above by reference to . That is the event definition storage of some embodiments stores data generated by the event configurator e.g. event configurator for use by the event scanning engine e.g. event scanning engine to detect events that trigger the release of content to designated recipients of the content while the recipient data storage stores information about the recipients of content e.g. recipients IDs recipient contact information authentication rules and or IDs mechanisms for delivery content etc. .

In some embodiments the storages and are stored in one physical storage while in some embodiments the storages are stored on separate physical storages. Still in some embodiments the storages and are stored across several physical storages.

The authentication module is in charge of authenticating the identity of recipients of content before releasing the content to the recipients. When the authentication module receives a message from the event scanning engine to release content for a detected event to specified recipients of the content the authentication module accesses the event definition storage to identify the event that was detected. Based on the identified event the authentication module accesses the recipient data storage to identify 1 the specified recipients of the content for the detected event and 2 the recipients contact information.

When the authentication module determines that contact information for a recipient is not valid e.g. not available outdated incorrect incomplete etc. the authentication module sends a request to the recipient interface to find valid contact information for the recipient. Upon receiving contact information for a candidate recipient from the recipient interface the authentication module passes the candidate recipient s contact information to the notification generator for authenticating the identity of the candidate recipient. A candidate recipient in some embodiments is an individual who could potentially be the actual intended recipient e.g. the individual has the same or similar name as the actual intended recipient .

In some embodiments instead of receiving a candidate recipient one at a time the authentication module receives a group of candidate recipients from the recipient interface . In such cases the authentication module of some embodiments passes the contact information of all the candidate recipients to the notification generator for authenticating the identities of the candidate recipients.

If the authentication module receives a message from the notification generator indicating that authentication of the recipient s identity failed the authentication module of some embodiments sends another request to the recipient interface to find valid contact information for the recipient. In some embodiments the authentication module stops requesting the recipient interface to find valid contact information for the recipient after a defined number of failed authentications of candidate recipients. The authentication module of some embodiments continues to send requests to the recipient interface to find valid contact information for the recipient until valid contact information for the recipient is found and authenticated.

When the authentication module determines that contact information in the recipient storage for a recipient is valid the authentication module passes the authentication information to the notification generator for authenticating the identity of the recipient. In some embodiments the authentication module receives a message from the notification generator indicating that a recipient successfully authenticated the recipient s identity. In response to the message the authentication module of some embodiments instructs the notification generator to release the content to the recipient. In some instances the authentication module does not require authentication of recipients and just instructs the notification generator to release the content to the recipient.

The recipient interface is responsible for finding contact information for candidate recipients when contact information for a recipient of content is not valid. As noted above a candidate recipient in some embodiments is an individual who could potentially be the actual intended recipient e.g. the individual has the same or similar name . In some embodiments the recipient interface receives requests from the authentication module to find valid contact information for a recipient. In different embodiments the recipient interface utilizes any number of different ways to find valid contact information for recipients. For instance the recipient interface of some embodiments finds candidate recipients by searching through a set of data sources as shown in . Examples data sources include social networks e.g. Facebook Linkedin Google Plus etc. search engines etc. Additional and or different methods to find valid contact information for a recipient exist as well.

In some embodiments the recipient interface provides a feature that allows an individual to contact the future communication system and check whether the system is holding any content that is ready for release to the individual as the system has detected its corresponding event. The system of some such embodiments 1 searches for content that could possibly be for the individual and 2 requests the individual to authenticate the identity of the individual before releasing any content to the individual.

The notification generator generates different types of notifications and delivers the notifications to the specified recipients of the notifications. For instance when the notification generator receives 1 a message from the authentication module to authenticate the identify of a recipient along with 2 the recipient s contact information the notification generator 1 accesses the recipient data storage to identify authentication information to request from the recipient 2 generates a notification that requests such authentication information from the recipient and 3 sends the notification to the recipient s contact information. As noted above authentication information in some embodiments is information that uniquely identifies or verifies the identity of the recipient e.g. the recipient s social security number driver s license number the names of each of the recipient s parents etc. .

When a recipient provides the notification generator with information in response to the authentication request the notification generator 1 accesses the recipient data storage to identify the authentication information of the recipient and 2 compares the identified authentication information with the information provided by the recipient. If the information provided by the recipient matches the authentication information the notification generator sends a message to the authentication module indicating that the recipient successfully authenticated the recipient s identity.

When the notification generator receives a message from the authentication module to release the content to a recipient the notification generator 1 accesses the recipient data storage to identify the contact information e.g. email address a Facebook account or username a Twitter username a mobile number etc. of the recipient 2 generates a notification indicating that content is released for the recipient and the content is available for the recipient to access and 3 sends the notification to the recipient s contact information.

An exemplary operation of the notification and authentication manager will now be described. In particular the operation will be described by reference to which conceptually illustrates a process of some embodiments for releasing content to a set of recipients.

The process begins by receiving at a notification to release content for a detected event to specified recipients of the content. In this example the authentication module receives the notification from the event scanning engine.

Next the process identifies at a recipient of the content and the recipient s contact information. The authentication module performs operation in this example. In some embodiments the authentication module identifies the recipient and the recipient s contact information by accessing the event definition storage to identify the event that was detected and accessing the recipient data storage based on the identified event in order to identify the recipient and the recipient s contact information.

The process then determines at whether the contact information is valid. In some embodiments the process employs many different techniques for different types of contact information when determining whether contact information is valid. For instance if the contact information includes an email address a Twitter account a Facebook account etc. the process determines that the contact information is valid if the contact information is live e.g. successful delivery to an email address a Twitter account can be followed Facebook page is accessible etc. . When the contact information is not live then the process determines that the contact information is not valid. In addition the process determines that the contact information is not valid when the contract information is not available e.g. null value empty string etc. . Additional and or other techniques are available to use as well.

When the process determines that the recipient s contact information is not valid the process identifies at contact information for candidate recipients. In this example the recipient interface performs operation . The recipient interface of different embodiments utilizes any number of different ways to find valid contact information for a recipient. For this example the recipient interface searches through data sources as described above to identify contact information for candidate recipients. After identifying contact information for candidate recipients the process returns to to determine whether the contact information for any of the candidate recipients is valid.

At the process determines whether the recipient is authenticated. The notification generator performs operation for this example. In some embodiments the authentication module performs operation . To send the recipient an authentication request the notification generator 1 accesses the recipient data storage to identify authentication information to request from the recipient 2 generates a notification that requests such authentication information from the recipient and 3 sends the notification to the recipient s contact information. As noted above authentication information in some embodiments is information that uniquely identifies or verifies the identity of the recipient e.g. the recipient s social security number driver s license number the names of each of the recipient s parents etc. .

When the recipient provides the notification generator with information in response to the authentication request the notification generator 1 accesses the recipient data storage to identify the authentication information of the recipient and 2 compares the identified authentication information with the information provided by the recipient. If the information provided by the recipient matches the authentication information the notification generator determines that the recipient is authenticate and continues to . Otherwise the notification generator determines that the recipient is not authenticated and the process proceeds to .

Alternatively or in conjunction with the authentication method described above for operation notification generator of some embodiments authenticates the identity of the recipient using an auto authentication feature. As such the process in some such embodiments determines at instead whether the recipient is authentication through the auto authentication feature and or the method described above for operation .

Returning to at the process sends a notification to the recipient indicating the release of the content to the recipient. In this example the notification generator sends the notification by 1 accessing the recipient data storage to identify the contact information e.g. email address a Facebook account or username a Twitter username a mobile number etc. of the recipient 2 generating a notification indicating that content is released to the recipient and the content is available for the recipient to access and 3 sending the notification to the recipient s contact information. The process then continues to . In some embodiments the process requires a recipient to authenticate the identify of the recipient before the process provides the content to the recipient. For instance the process of some embodiments requests a recipient to authenticate the identity of the recipient after the recipient clicks on a URL to access the content but before allowing the recipient access to the content through the URL. One of ordinary skill will realize that in some embodiments or for some detected events but not others in some embodiments the process does not perform the operation to authenticate the recipient before notifying the recipient of the content for release.

At the process determines whether any recipient of the content is left to process. The authentication module for this example performs operation . When the authentication module determines that there is a recipient left to process the process returns to to continue processing any remaining recipients of the content. Otherwise the process ends.

Many of the examples and embodiments described above discuss contents 1 that are created by a single user and 2 that are defined to be released to a single recipient. This is also referred to as a one to one future content messaging feature which is provided by the future communication system of some embodiments. The following sections describe two other types of content distribution features that the future communication system of some embodiments supports. Section A will describe a many to one future content distribution feature and Section B will describe a one to many future content distribution feature. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize a many to many future content distribution feature is also possible in some embodiments from reading the descriptions of the many to one and one to many features. Also more generally an m to n future content distribution feature is possible where m and n are numbers greater than one. In addition in some cases m and n could be one a few or many. Accordingly all permutations of one few or many to many few or one are within the scope of some embodiments of the invention.

The first stage illustrates the future communication system receiving a content from each of several users. As shown at this stage the future communication system is receiving a content from a user through a network . The content is similar to the content described above by reference to . The event configuration data includes data that represents recipient data the content and event description data of an event. The first stage also shows the system receiving content and from users and respectively.

In this example the user has defined the event configuration data such that the contents and are to be released to user upon the occurrence of a future event that is specified by the event description data .

The second stage illustrates the system scanning a set of data sources to detect the occurrence of the event defined by the event description data . In the second stage the future communication system is receiving data from the data sources through the network . Based on the data gathered from the data sources the system has detected the occurrence of the event as indicated in the future communication system module.

The third stage illustrates the release of the contents and to the specified recipient of the content. In particular the third stage shows the future communication system releasing the contents and to the user .

The process starts by receiving at a definition of a content that is for release to a set of recipients upon the occurrence of a specified event. The process of some embodiments performs the process described above by reference to as part of the receiving the request to create a content.

Next the process receives at a specified set of users that are allowed to contribute content to the content to be released. When the process receives the specified set of users the process associates the specified set of users with the content e.g. by storing names of a specified set of users in a data structure that represents the content . In some embodiments the process receives the specified set of users that are allowed to contribute content to the content as part of the event definition that the process received at . The many to one content release provides a multi user and collaborative environment in which content is created.

The process then determines at whether contributing content is received from a specified user. When the process determines that content is not received the process proceeds to . Otherwise the process continues to .

At the process associates the received content with the content to be released. This way when the content is released the specified recipient will receive all the content that has been received. In some embodiments the process associates the received content with the content by adding a reference to the content in a data structure that represents the event.

Next the process determines at whether the specified event occurred. In some embodiments the process performs the process described above by reference to to determine whether the specified event occurred. When the process determines that the specified event has not occurred the process returns to to check whether contributing content has been received from a user that is to be associated to the content to be released. When the process determines that the specified event occurred the process releases at the content associated with the content to the set of recipients. The process then ends.

The first stage shows the future communication system receiving the event configuration data from a user. As shown at this stage the future communication system is receiving an event configuration data from a user through a network . The event configuration data is similar to the event configuration data described above by reference to . The event configuration data includes data that represents recipients data content and event description data of an event. In this example the user has defined the event configuration data such that the content is to be released to users and upon the occurrence of a future event that is specified by the event conditions .

The second stage illustrates the system scanning a set of data sources to detect the occurrence of the event defined by the event description data . In the second stage the future communication system is receiving data from the data sources through the network . Based on the data gathered from the data sources the system has detected the occurrence of the event as indicated in the future communication system module.

The third stage illustrates the release of the event configuration data s content to the specified recipient of the content. In particular the third stage shows the future communication system releasing the content to the users and .

Many of the above described features and applications are implemented as software processes that are specified as a set of instructions recorded on a computer readable storage medium also referred to as computer readable medium . When these instructions are executed by one or more computational or processing unit s e.g. one or more processors cores of processors or other processing units they cause the processing unit s to perform the actions indicated in the instructions. Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to CD ROMs flash drives random access memory RAM chips hard drives erasable programmable read only memories EPROMs electrically erasable programmable read only memories EEPROMs etc. The computer readable media does not include carrier waves and electronic signals passing wirelessly or over wired connections.

In this specification the term software is meant to include firmware residing in read only memory or applications stored in magnetic storage which can be read into memory for processing by a processor. Also in some embodiments multiple software inventions can be implemented as sub parts of a larger program while remaining distinct software inventions. In some embodiments multiple software inventions can also be implemented as separate programs. Finally any combination of separate programs that together implement a software invention described here is within the scope of the invention. In some embodiments the software programs when installed to operate on one or more electronic systems define one or more specific machine implementations that execute and perform the operations of the software programs.

The bus collectively represents all system peripheral and chipset buses that communicatively connect the numerous internal devices of the electronic system . For instance the bus communicatively connects the processing unit s with the read only memory the GPU the system memory and the permanent storage device .

From these various memory units the processing unit s retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of the invention. The processing unit s may be a single processor or a multi core processor in different embodiments. Some instructions are passed to and executed by the GPU . The GPU can offload various computations or complement the image processing provided by the processing unit s .

The read only memory ROM stores static data and instructions that are needed by the processing unit s and other modules of the electronic system. The permanent storage device on the other hand is a read and write memory device. This device is a non volatile memory unit that stores instructions and data even when the electronic system is off. Some embodiments of the invention use a mass storage device such as a magnetic or optical disk and its corresponding disk drive integrated flash memory as the permanent storage device .

Other embodiments use a removable storage device such as a floppy disk flash memory device etc. and its corresponding drive as the permanent storage device. Like the permanent storage device the system memory is a read and write memory device. However unlike storage device the system memory is a volatile read and write memory such a random access memory. The system memory stores some of the instructions and data that the processor needs at runtime. In some embodiments the invention s processes are stored in the system memory the permanent storage device and or the read only memory . From these various memory units the processing unit s retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of some embodiments.

The bus also connects to the input and output devices and . The input devices enable the user to communicate information and select commands to the electronic system. The input devices include alphanumeric keyboards and pointing devices also called cursor control devices cameras e.g. webcams microphones or similar devices for receiving voice commands etc. The output devices display images generated by the electronic system or otherwise output data. The output devices include printers and display devices such as cathode ray tubes CRT or liquid crystal displays LCD as well as speakers or similar audio output devices. Some embodiments include devices such as a touchscreen that function as both input and output devices.

Finally as shown in bus also couples electronic system to a network through a network adapter not shown . In this manner the computer can be a part of a network of computers such as a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or an Intranet or a network of networks such as the Internet. Any or all components of electronic system may be used in conjunction with the invention.

Some embodiments include electronic components such as microprocessors storage and memory that store computer program instructions in a machine readable or computer readable medium alternatively referred to as computer readable storage media machine readable media or machine readable storage media . Some examples of such computer readable media include RAM ROM read only compact discs CD ROM recordable compact discs CD R rewritable compact discs CD RW read only digital versatile discs e.g. DVD ROM dual layer DVD ROM a variety of recordable rewritable DVDs e.g. DVD RAM DVD RW DVD RW etc. flash memory e.g. SD cards mini SD cards micro SD cards etc. magnetic and or solid state hard drives read only and recordable Blu Ray discs ultra density optical discs any other optical or magnetic media and floppy disks. The computer readable media may store a computer program that is executable by at least one processing unit and includes sets of instructions for performing various operations. Examples of computer programs or computer code include machine code such as is produced by a compiler and files including higher level code that are executed by a computer an electronic component or a microprocessor using an interpreter.

While the above discussion primarily refers to microprocessor or multi core processors that execute software some embodiments are performed by one or more integrated circuits such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs . In some embodiments such integrated circuits execute instructions that are stored on the circuit itself. In addition some embodiments execute software stored in programmable logic devices PLDs ROM or RAM devices.

As used in this specification and any claims of this application the terms computer server processor and memory all refer to electronic or other technological devices. These terms exclude people or groups of people. For the purposes of the specification the terms display or displaying means displaying on an electronic device. As used in this specification and any claims of this application the terms computer readable medium computer readable media and machine readable medium are entirely restricted to tangible physical objects that store information in a form that is readable by a computer. These terms exclude any wireless signals wired download signals and any other ephemeral signals.

While the invention has been described with reference to numerous specific details one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the invention can be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit of the invention. In addition a number of the figures including and conceptually illustrate processes. The specific operations of these processes may not be performed in the exact order shown and described. The specific operations may not be performed in one continuous series of operations and different specific operations may be performed in different embodiments. Furthermore the process could be implemented using several sub processes or as part of a larger macro process. Thus one of ordinary skill in the art would understand that the invention is not to be limited by the foregoing illustrative details but rather is to be defined by the appended claims.

