---

title: Knowledge matrix utilizing systematic contextual links
abstract: Exemplary methods, apparatuses, and systems receive a search input, select a first cell related to the search input, and display data of the first cell and selectable objects in response to the search input. Each cell defines a way to display a portion of searchable data within a first contextual relationship and a way to display a portion of the searchable data within a second, different contextual relationship. Selection of a first selectable object results in displaying a first portion of the data of the first cell with a first set of other data related to the first portion based upon the first contextual relationship. Selection of a second selectable object results in the computer displaying a second portion of the data of the first cell with a second set of other data related to the second portion based upon the second contextual relationship.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08700612&OS=08700612&RS=08700612
owner: ContextU, Inc.
number: 08700612
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120822
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 526 668 filed Aug. 23 2011 U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 527 567 filed Aug. 25 2011 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 541 004 filed Sep. 29 2011 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The various embodiments described herein relate to apparatuses systems and methods to display data within various contextual relationships. In particular the embodiments relate to searching and displaying knowledge based upon systematic contextual views.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material this is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. The following notice applies Copyright 2012 ContextU Inc. All Rights Reserved.

Students typically study various subjects. For example students may study the discovery of the Americas by Christopher Columbus in a first year history course Roman Antiquity in a second year course and the Industrial Revolution in a third year course. The students may study these subjects without a sense of the greater context of the facts that are the focus of each subject. It is often more useful to know the relationship between facts than to know the facts themselves. For example it is often more informative to know that Mozart was born before Beethoven than to know the date Mozart was born.

Exemplary methods apparatuses and systems receive a search input and select a first cell within a matrix of cells that includes data related to the search input. Each cell within the matrix includes searchable data and defines a way to display a portion of the searchable data within a first contextual relationship and a way to display a portion of the searchable data within a second different contextual relationship. In response to the search input the data of the first cell and a plurality of selectable objects are displayed. Selection of a first of the plurality of selectable objects results in the displaying of a first portion of the data of the first cell with a first set of other data related to the first portion based upon the first contextual relationship. Selection of a second of the plurality of selectable objects results in the displaying of a second portion of the data of the first cell with a second set of other data related to the second portion based upon the second contextual relationship.

In one embodiment the first and second contextual relationships are selected from a group comprising of a temporal relationship a spatial relationship a causal relationship and an inclusion relationship. Temporal relationships refer to relationships between data in time. Spatial relationships refer to geographical relationships between data which may be shown through maps in two or three dimensions. Causal relationships refer to cause and effect relationships between data. Inclusion relationships refer to groups in which data is included.

Other features and advantages will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description.

Embodiments described herein utilize a matrix of cells to systematically provide a user with the presentation of knowledge in a plurality of contexts. The embodiments present data including persons events locations objects and concepts and their contextual relationships to other persons events locations objects and concepts. Exemplary contextual relationships include temporal relationships spatial relationships causal relationships and inclusion relationships. The use of contextual information may improve user interest learning understanding and retention of facts concepts and relationships therebetween.

In one embodiment the content of the matrix of cells is categorized into various branches of knowledge and each branch of knowledge is represented by an array of cells. For a matrix composed of n arrays each array is associated with one particular field or sub field of knowledge. The matrix is useful in presenting relationships between arrays as discussed in further detail herein. By way of example the History of the Universe can be related to for example Mathematics Physics Chemistry Biology Human History and Philosophy. Such relationships between fields of knowledge provide a user with an interactive and adaptive perspective on a particular piece of knowledge.

The exemplary cell includes a plurality of fields and is related to linked to a plurality of other cells as represented by arrow pointers. The exemplary cell includes an address field for a unique address identifier. In one embodiment other cells use the address identifier to link e.g. via pointer or other addressing mechanism to the exemplary cell .

The cell further includes a title field and a type field. The title field includes intrinsic attributes such as a name of a person event location object or concept or a short description of the data contained in the cell . The type field is for a data point type. Exemplary data point types include a person event location object or concept.

The description field includes descriptive text and serves as the substantive description of the data point. For example if cell is a data point for a person the description field may include biographical information for that person.

The cell further includes a field for pointers to items within a representation bank . The representation bank contains graphics images audio and video that can be utilized to illustrate the content of the cell . Exemplary data contained in the representation bank includes maps timelines portraits etc. Cells link to data in the representation bank using representation pointers or other addressing mechanisms. For example when a map is contained in the representation bank pointers to the representation bank may be associated with one or more sets of coordinates of the map to emphasize certain features of the map on a display. Additionally pointers to the representation bank may be used to designate a center coordinate and a zoom factor. Such a zoom factor instruction may be relevant when displaying a timeline a map as well as other views. Other applications of a zoom factor will be described in greater detail below.

Cells may utilize different numbers of pointers to the representation bank or no pointers at all depending upon the content of each cell. As illustrated the exemplary cell has two pointers to the representation bank while another cell has a single pointer to the representation bank .

The exemplary cell further includes a field for external pointers. External pointers may reference scholarly articles websites and other resources that are external to the matrix of cells. For example the external pointers may include a hyperlink uniform resource locator URL Internet protocol IP address or other external link.

The exemplary cell further includes a field for internal pointers to other cells or arrays within the matrix. The exemplary cell is related to a plurality of other cells as represented by arrow pointers. Internal pointers define ways for a user to navigate between cells within the matrix. Navigation through the matrix is in effect navigation through the relationships between the facts events concepts and locations that are present in the matrix. The internal pointers provide a link to access a cell for additional data. For example if the exemplary cell is a data point for a person and the description field includes biographical information for that person including a location for the person s birthplace an internal pointer may be used to access a cell with more detail regarding that birthplace generally.

Furthermore contextual relationships are assigned to internal pointers. At least some of the internal pointers are categorized according to one or more of temporal relationships spatial relationships causal relationships and inclusion relationships. Examples of these four contextual relationship categories of internal pointers will be discussed herein with reference to . An internal pointer may be categorized under multiple relationships. For example a single cell may have both a causal relationship and an inclusion relationship with another cell.

In one embodiment each cell includes internal pointers categorized under at least two of these four relationships. For example each cell would at least include internal pointers categorized under temporal and spatial relationships or any of the other five possible combinations of two of the four relationships applied to all cells . Cells may also have internal pointers categorized under additional categories as long as all cells at least include internal pointers categorized under the same two contextual relationship categories as all other cells. In another embodiment each cell includes at least three of these four relationships. For example each cell would at least include internal pointers categorized under temporal spatial and inclusion relationships. In yet another embodiment each cell includes internal pointers categorized under all four relationships. The inclusion of internal pointers categorized under two three or all four contextual relationships in each cell in the matrix provides a consistent and systematic presentation of contextual knowledge.

As illustrated exemplary cell has one temporal pointer to another cell two spatial pointers to other cells and one causal pointer to another cell and one inclusion pointer to another cell . Additionally this other cell has internal pointers to the exemplary cell and to another cell .

In one embodiment when more than one internal pointer is provided for a class of internal pointers a user is presented with a choice of respective links to the data associated with the internal pointers. Continuing with the aforementioned person and biographical information example the exemplary cell may include a first spatial pointer for the person s place of birth and a second spatial pointer for another significant location associated with the person.

In one embodiment the internal pointer section further includes parameters indicating how data linked to the cell by the internal pointers should be displayed. Exemplary parameters include codes that indicate what type of graph order color s size highlights fonts etc. should be used. Additionally the parameters may vary based upon the contextual relationship category or categories associated with the pointer s .

The selectable objects along the left side of the display are referred to herein as buttons . In one embodiment the buttons are provided on all screens and the functionality of some of the buttons becomes relevant as the user navigates through the matrix. Selection of a root button returns the user to the root display screen e.g. as shown in the GUI window . Selection of a start point button results in the display returning to the start of a current search thread. This start point can be the original point of entry to the matrix after initiating a search e.g. the cell displayed in response to a search such as the selection of a field or subfield in the GUI window through a query entered in the text search box or via a token as described further below . Selection of a back button results in displaying the previous cell along a user navigation path. Selection of a zoom in button results in zooming in to a portion of the matrix or the displayed representation. Selection of a zoom out button results in zooming out of the matrix or the displayed representation. In one embodiment zooming in and out of the matrix shown in GUI window results in the inclusion and exclusion respectively of sub fields and cells at more detailed levels in the matrix. Selection of the settings button provides the user access to system settings. As discussed above the text search box permits input of one or more search terms or one or more tokens.

In one embodiment the screen is touch sensitive and button functionalities described above is enabled by finger gestures on the screen. For example translation of the display screen in one or more dimensions is results from a one finger drag. Zooming in out results from a two finger pinch expansion. Rotation results from a two finger twist drag about an axis. Additionally a two finger gesture with one finger fixed and another finger dragging results in a change of axis.

In one embodiment the root display shown in the GUI display includes fields of knowledge linked through interactive tension lines. Dragging a box containing a field of knowledge across the GUI display results in the stretching of a corresponding tension line and in turn the movement of fields of connected fields of knowledge. This interactive feature enables a user to manipulate the density of fields and subfields of knowledge displayed in a given area of the matrix e.g. to provide a clear view of a particular portion of the matrix.

The following will describe embodiments of the invention using Bach as an example. Embodiments of the invention are not limited to a particular data point or type of data point.

In one embodiment the subject main display screen includes the buttons described above and presents an introduction of the subject in five views. A central element offers an image of the subject Bach from the representation bank and descriptive text e.g. from the description field of the cell. In one embodiment the descriptive text is truncated and includes a selectable link that when selected causes the processing device to display the remainder of the descriptive text e.g. by expanding the central element or by opening a separate view . Alternatively a user may use a scroll functionality to view the remainder of the descriptive text within the central element .

Around the central element the GUI display includes four contextual relationship screens and corresponding selectable objects . The upper left portion of the GUI display shows a view of a temporal display screen overlaid by a corresponding selectable temporal display button . The upper right portion of the GUI display includes a view of a spatial display screen overlaid by a corresponding selectable spatial display button . The lower left portion of the GUI display includes a view of a causal display screen overlaid by a corresponding selectable causal display button . The lower right portion of the GUI display includes a view of an inclusion display screen overlaid by a corresponding selectable inclusion display button . Receipt of user input selecting one of the four selectable display buttons and results in the computer displaying the corresponding contextual view e.g. as described with reference to . Additionally in one embodiment the four contextual display screens and are selectable the selection causing the computer to display the corresponding contextual view.

In an alternate embodiment the GUI display includes only the content of the central display element and the selectable display buttons and in order to utilize more of the display for the descriptive text and representations. In yet another embodiment the GUI display alternates between the two aforementioned alternate layouts in response to user selection of the zoom in and zoom out buttons and in response to an orientation change of the display e.g. as detected by processing device using an accelerometer in response to a preference elected using the settings button or in response to a determined display size.

In yet another alternate embodiment the GUI display includes four buttons in the right margin opposite the buttons in the left margin to provide for selection of contextual relationships. The four buttons may include labels e.g. T for temporal relationships S for spatial relationships C for causal relationships and I for inclusion relationships or icons e.g. a clock face for temporal a set of axes for spatial a tree graph for causal and a Venn diagram for inclusion.

The temporal context display in the GUI window shows a date timeline centered upon the time when Bach lived. The GUI window is populated by other data points e.g. names events civilizations empires etc. to provide the temporal context around Bach. For example the GUI window shows that Bach s life overlapped with the lives of Newton and Handel. A user may select another data point to move from the current subject Bach to another subject e.g. Newton.

In one embodiment the other data points that provide temporal context are organized into multiple timelines. For example a timeline of events in science and a timeline of events in the humanities are shown at the top of the GUI window . The present data point Bach is included within a personalities timeline . In one embodiment the data points are colored or labeled to indicate a relevant field to which they belong. A timeline of major periods is shown at the bottom of the GUI window .

In one embodiment the zoom buttons and or equivalent zoom commands decrease and increase respectively the length in time displayed in the GUI window. Additionally or alternatively zooming in and zooming out decreases and increases respectively the number of timelines displayed. Additionally or alternatively zooming in and zooming out adds and removes respectively data points within an affected portion of the timeline. For example zooming in upon the 18century may provide the opportunity to include additional personalities events etc. that are not displayed when zoomed out to a timeline that spans the 16 20centuries. In one embodiment the inclusion or exclusion of data points is determined based upon available display space and relative importance popularity relevance etc. as described in greater detail below .

The exemplary timelines are illustrated as having a linear scale. When appropriate timelines may be illustrated along a logarithmic scale. For example a logarithmic scale would be beneficial for the history of the universe starting 13.7 billion years ago at the Big Bang and ending in the far future with an asymptotically cold universe. Employing a logarithmic scale facilitates the visualization of events at the very beginning on the universe that occurred within a tiny fraction of second 10to 10seconds after time began together with events that occurred billions of years later such as the formation of the solar system 4.6 billion years ago the emergence of life 3.8 billion years ago and the rise of homo sapiens 200 000 years ago .

In one embodiment the date timeline remains visible regardless of the amount of scrolling. For example when scrolling down the date timeline may reach the top of the GUI window shown in and remain locked there as the user scrolls into the GUI window shown in .

Similar to the description above various timelines are displayed to provide temporal context for the subject of the present data point Bach. The exemplary GUI window includes period timelines and for art and cultural periods. The exemplary GUI also includes timelines and depicting the ebb and flow of empires and civilizations.

The spatial context display in the exemplary GUI window includes a map of 17th 18th century Europe in which Bach lived. In one embodiment spatial data related to the subject of the present data point is included in the spatial context display. For example Eisenach Bach s birthplace is predominately displayed. Other spatial points of interest may also be displayed to indicate other locations relevant to Bach s life. In one embodiment the spatial context display includes dates and the geographical reach of the empires at the time of Bach. In yet another embodiment the spatial context display includes geographical points of interest relevant to other personalities events etc. such as the birthplaces of other great composers.

Similar to the discussion above user selection of the data points displayed in the exemplary GUI window causes the computer to navigate to the subject matter of the selected data point. For example selection of Eisenach would result in navigating to the cell and corresponding displays for the town of Eisenach.

In one embodiment the zoom buttons and or equivalent zoom commands decrease and increase respectively the range of the displayed map. Likewise a translation of the map e.g. by scrolling would reveal other areas to the north east south and west. Alternatively or additionally zooming in and zooming out adds and removes respectively data points within an affected portion of the map. In one embodiment the inclusion or exclusion of data points is determined based upon available display space and relative importance popularity relevance etc. as described in greater detail below .

In one embodiment the spatial context display includes a three dimensional 3D map. For example the illustration of a galaxy would benefit from the use of a 3D map. In addition to panning and zooming a 3D map would further include controls to rotate about an axis. For example an additional button not shown or touch gesture may be used to implement rotation within 3D space.

In one embodiment the causal data points include individuals art forms events etc. influenced by or that influenced the subject of the present data. Similar to the discussion above user selection of the data points displayed in the exemplary GUI window causes the computer to navigate to the subject matter of the selected data point. For example the causal context display in GUI window provides the user selectable entry points to Bach s work categories and to general results of Bach s influence.

Returning to in one embodiment the zoom buttons and or equivalent zoom commands decrease and increase respectively the range of the displayed temporal range of causal influence. Alternatively or additionally zooming affects the focus of the cause and effect relationships. For example zooming in may focus on the causal relationship of a single work of Bach rather than a collection of works. Alternatively or additionally the zooming in and zooming out results in adding or removing items that served as a cause of or influence upon the subject of the present data. For example zooming out of this screen using the zoom out button would allow the display of the influences that mattered to Bach. In one embodiment the inclusion or exclusion of data points is determined based upon available display space and relative importance popularity relevance etc. as described in greater detail below .

The inclusion display in GUI window includes a list of composers of western classical music a set to which Bach belongs. Similar to the discussion above user selection of the data points displayed in the exemplary GUI window causes the computer to navigate to the subject matter of the selected data point. For example each name in the set of composers can be selected to allow navigation to respective composer.

In one embodiment the zoom buttons and or equivalent zoom commands decrease and increase respectively the number of data points to include within a given set. For example zooming out from the displayed composers may result in displaying western classical music composers. Alternatively or additionally the zooming in and zooming out result in adding or removing data points based upon temporal constraints. Alternatively or additionally the zooming in and zooming out result in adding or removing categories within the inclusion context set. For example zooming out may result in adding or removing other categories of music such as popular or non western music that incorporates or is influenced by related to Bach or subcategories of classical music. In one embodiment the inclusion or exclusion of data points is determined based upon available display space and relative importance popularity relevance etc. as described in greater detail below .

Various methods are envisioned for communicating the token to the user including printing a token on an item such as a book compact disc cover ticket program sign etc. For example the user may be at a concert where he is listening to a particular work of Beethoven. Next to the entry for that work in the printed program a printed token is provided e.g. as a string or as a QR code which the user can input into his device in order to display information about Beethoven from the matrix. Furthermore the information about Beethoven may be focused upon that which the publisher of the program desires to bring to the attention of the user.

Broadcasting of tokens may take advantage of transmission through networks such as the Internet. Tokens can be delivered in concert with the particular action event broadcast or program being watched listened to or otherwise interacted with such as the concert discussed in the previous example. In one embodiment the program indicates aurally that a token is available from a particular Internet address and can be retrieved via a computer or other device. In yet another embodiment a token is transmitted directly to an individual e.g. via email messaging etc.

In one embodiment at block the device determines if there is more than one cell related to and found in response to the search input. For example the device may determine that multiple cells are related if they each contain a search term in their respective titles and or descriptions. If there is more than one cell related to the search input the device displays selectable points of view to resolve the ambiguity in the search input at block . The points of view offered to the user are associated with respective cells or arrays determined to be relevant to the subject searched. Exemplary points of view include field sub field categorization cell type cell title or a portion of cell description. At block the device receives input to select a point of view.

For example searches for J. S. Bach or Maxwell s equations the data related to these topics may not lend itself to being viewed from various points of view and thus the user may not be provided with an option to select a point of view for those searches. A search for warfare however may benefit from being viewed from multiple points of view as warfare can be seen from several vantage points historical ethical religious etc. If the device determines that multiple cells are related to warfare the user is prompted to select a point of view e.g. via selectable items in a list. This has the advantages of 1 giving the user an immediate grasp of the fact that a theme invokes more than just one discipline and 2 allowing the system to reveal relationships that are predicated by the selected point of view. The point of view acts as a meta relation.

At block in response to determining that there is not more than one cell related to the search input or in response to receiving a selection of a point of view the device selects a cell related to the search input. In an alternate embodiment the device proceeds to block from block without considering points of view. At block the device displays data of the cell in response to the search input. Additionally the device displays at least two selectable contextual relationships. For example in response to a search for Bach the device selects the cell within the matrix for Johann Sebastian Bach and displays the corresponding data as illustrated in .

A token functions as a pointer to a particular cell as discussed with reference to . In one embodiment the token defines a contextual relationship view to be displayed. For example in response to a search for Bach the device selects the cell within the matrix for Johann Sebastian Bach and displays the corresponding data in a contextual as indicated by the token as illustrated in any of . The input of a token causes the retrieval of a predetermined matrix view which provides a visual perspective on e.g. Beethoven s time in a music period timeline which may indicate that the work in question is part of the Romantic Period and that this period comes after the Baroque and Classical Periods and precedes the Late and Post Romantic Periods.

In one embodiment the token defines the part and scope of the matrix that is to be displayed on the screen. For example an unrestricted user can zoom out to visualize the entire music timeline as far back as 32 000 years ago when the first recovered musical instruments were made and continuing through present day. If the token defines a limited scope however the user may be restricted from zooming out beyond e.g. the Renaissance through Romantic Period. In one embodiment the token also defines the initial zoom magnification spatial orientation or scroll position of the GUI window displayed in response to the search input.

Alternatively or additionally the defined scope may limit the user from selecting one or more data points selecting one or more contextual views navigating beyond a predetermined number or set of links to other cells navigating outside of a predetermined set of cells or navigating between fields sub fields depending on the perspective the token generator wishes to convey to the user who receives and uses the token. Such limitations of scope enable a teacher e.g. to keep students from becoming distracted by off topic subject matter.

In yet another embodiment the defined scope may limit the level of detail presented to the user set a vocabulary level or otherwise tailor the presentation of data to the situation or audience. For example a grade school student may benefit from the presentation of a cell within a discipline of science at an introductory level while a college student would benefit from a deeper dive into the same subject.

In an additional embodiment the defined scope provides a subject based limitation on and or starting point for the subject of the search input. For example a token may result in a limited view or initial focus upon a particular genre of the Beethoven s work such as symphonies rather than the other genres in which he composed. If unrestricted the user may zoom out to view the classification other genres concertos preludes etc. .

In one embodiment one or more of user preferences provide a scope or initial view of the displayed cell data. For example using default settings or the settings button a user can benefit from preferences such as education level initial contextual view initial zoom level display characteristics such as font size restrictions upon selecting one or more data points restrictions upon selecting one or more contextual views restrictions upon navigating beyond a predetermined number or set of links to other cells restrictions upon navigating outside of a predetermined set of cells or restrictions upon navigating between fields sub fields. Such preferences would include the ability to focus on narrow or wide temporal spatial causal or inclusion relations. In one embodiment one or more of the user preferences are overridden by views or scope preferences defined by a token. Alternatively the user preferences are not overridden by views or scope preferences defined by a token. Such preferences may also be overridden through an adaptive learning system described below. In one embodiment the user selects which preferences may be overridden by tokens or the adaptive learning system.

After having used the system for a period of time the system can build a table of tokens or another data structure that reflects the history of what has been displayed to the user how it was displayed and on what the user has focused. Additionally the processing device may use the history to automatically determine the user s preferred viewing method. For example once a user s history has been compiled to a predetermined level e.g. number of tokens during a period of time etc. the processing device determines if the use shows more use of a particular contextual relationship than others for all cells or for cells within particular fields sub fields. In one embodiment the system uses the history in one of two ways 1 to prompt the user to view new material outside of the areas already visited by the user and 2 to encourage the user to delve deeper into subject matter within the same areas previously visited.

Likewise based upon the user s history and preferred method of display the system can adapt the presentation of initial matrix visualization entry points. For example if the user has navigated the system using a majority of wide temporal timelines and the user is interested in e.g. the Woodstock event the system would initially provide a wide timeline of events surrounding Woodstock temporal relation instead of the map of the area of Woodstock N.Y. spatial relation the causes and effects of the concert causal relation or a list of other major rock concert events inclusion relation .

In one embodiment tokens are received and or stored in a first in first out FIFO array. The depth of the array may be defined by system default or by the user giving control on the length of the stored history. Additionally user initiated matrix visualizations via text entry link selection etc. may also be stored as tokens in the FIFO array to permit revisiting recent visualizations. In one embodiment the tokens are flagged to indicate whether or not the tokens are user initiated e.g. rather than being received from a broadcaster to distinguish them for retrieval. According to a default setting or user preference the device automatically creates an entry in the history for each displayed cell contextual view zoom level scroll pan position of a window etc. e.g. in response to a user input to change a view. Alternatively the processing device automatically stores a new history token upon the expiration of a timer counter e.g. every few seconds or minutes or at the user s discretion. Using the time based automated token storage the device may only store a new token if found to be different from the immediately preceding one.

At block the processing device receives user input. At block the device determines if the input is a selection of a data point within the cell. For example referring to user selection of another composer e.g. Chopin would be determined to be the selection of the data point for another cell. If the input is a selection of another data point at block the device selects the cell related to the data point and at block displays the corresponding data.

If the input is not a selection of another data point at block the device determines if the input is a selection of a contextual relationship. If a contextual relationship has been selected at block the device displays a portion of the data of the present subject matter with a set of related data based upon the selected contextual relationship. For example referring to Bach the time Bach lived and the identification of Bach as a composer are a portion of the data of the cell displayed in response to a search for Bach. The selection of the temporal contextual relationship displays this portion of the data with one or more timelines of other personalities events periods empires etc. as they relate to the time Bach lived.

If the input is not the selection of a contextual relationship at block the device determines if the input is a zoom command. If the input is a zoom command at block the device alters the display according to one or more zoom embodiments discussed above. For example the device may add or remove displayed data points in response to the zoom command scope limitations the current contextual relationship etc.

If the input is not a zoom command at block the device otherwise determines the type of input and processes the input accordingly. Other exemplary inputs include commands resulting from use of the navigation buttons the settings button the entry of a new search input a request to generate a token or set of tokens or a request to add a cell within the matrix or create a new link between two cells.

In one embodiment the processing device generates one or more tokens in response to user input. For example using an indexing system or other means that allows the discrimination between cells and their views with sufficient resolution the processing device generates a string address bar code or other token in response to a user input. In an additional embodiment the processing device generates a token or series of tokens for a presentation including multiple views cells in response to user input e.g. the selection of a plurality of tokens from the user s history as described above or by tracking current user navigation manipulation of the matrix. In one embodiment the processing device enables or prompts the user to designate scope limitations a preferred contextual relationship education level etc. as discussed above with reference to display preferences and scope. The user may then transmit publish or otherwise share the generated token s .

In one embodiment the user input is a request to add a new cell or link contextual relationship between cells. For example the display may provide an input form on a dedicated screen that will allow the input of new material or new relationships which can then be vetted e.g. by an editorial board before being incorporated into the matrix.

As described above the inclusion or exclusion of data points is determined based upon available display space and relative importance popularity relevance etc. In one embodiment a curator manually sets the importance or relevance of a data point. Alternatively the processing device employs adaptive learning and monitors usage of the matrix to determine the relative importance popularity or relevance. For example the device determines the number of views of each particular cell data point and or the contextual relationship zoom level view thereof by incrementing counters as a user navigates the matrix. In one embodiment the cell includes one more counter fields. Additionally or alternatively the device maintains counters for groups of cells and or connections between cells. Fields and or sub fields e.g. science matter energy physics relativity may each have counters. Using determined numbers of views of cells as an indication of importance popularity or relevance the processing device prioritizes which cells to include in a limited display space. When a user zooms in or zooms out of a crowded display the processing device is able to use the counters or manually set values to maintain important items in view while allowing less important items to fade into the background. Additionally or alternatively using determined numbers of traversals between cells the processing device prioritizes which data points to include in a limited display space. For example if a great number of users traverse from a cell for Bach to a cell for Handel the processing device determines that the cell for Handel is of higher importance popularity or relevance in a contextual view of Bach. In one embodiment the processing device utilizes the counters in an adaptive manner to determine default contextual views and or zoom levels for particular cells. In an additional embodiment the processing device utilizes the counters in combination with the user s history to prompt the user to view new material or to encourage the user to delve deeper into subject matter within the same areas previously visited based upon the importance popularity or relevance of a cell connection to the cell.

Importance relevance connections are also revealed through indirect traversals of the matrix. Given two end point cells in the matrix the processing device computes a minimum path between them. A minimum path is computed e.g. by traversing all related cells from the start point and from these traversed cells traversing their own related cells and so on until the second end point cell has been reached. Each cell traversal increases a counter that is associated with a particular path and adds the cell address to the traversal search path history to allow the path to be reconstituted.

In order to keep the search through the matrix within pragmatic bounds a cell count maximum is defined by a default or user setting. The cell count maximum denotes the maximum number of cells allowed in a path. If during a search the cell count maximum is reached before reaching the end of the search the path is abandoned.

The path having the minimum count of traversals between cells may reveal a relationship between the cells that otherwise may not be a priori obvious. In one embodiment paths with a minimum count less than a predetermined number indicate an importance or relevance between cells that is included in the determination of which data points to display at a given zoom level or is included to prompt encourage the user to view particular content. Additionally such a relationship may inform users such as educators who wish to illustrate the connections between two events people places etc. or a person and a location or an event and a person etc. For example in response to a request for all cells within a particular minimum path count e.g. a default number or user inputted number the processing device generates a list of cells that are within the minimum path count of a selected cell.

In one embodiment each traversed cell can be weighted differently based on predefined criteria when calculating the minimum path. For example causal relationships can be given an addend of 1 while all other relationships including temporal spatial and inclusion can be given an addend of 1.1 which would reveal connections with a causal relationship preference.

After processing the other input in block the method optionally returns to block to wait for receive further user input.

The data processing system includes memory which is coupled to the microprocessor s . The memory may be used for storing data metadata and programs for execution by the microprocessor s . The memory may include one or more of volatile and non volatile memories such as Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM a solid state disk SSD Flash Phase Change Memory PCM or other types of data storage. The memory may be internal or distributed memory.

The data processing system also includes an audio input output subsystem which may include a microphone and or a speaker for for example receiving an aural token playing back music or other audio receiving voice instructions to be executed by the microprocessor s playing audio notifications etc. Exemplary voice instructions include search terms and navigation commands.

A display controller and display device provides a visual user interface for the user e.g. GUI windows illustrated in .

The system also includes one or more input or output I O devices and interfaces which are provided to allow a user to provide input to receive output from and otherwise transfer data to and from the system e.g. to enter a token generate a token navigate the matrix etc. These I O devices may include a mouse keypad or a keyboard a touch panel or a multi touch input panel camera optical scanner network interface modem other known I O devices or a combination of such I O devices. The touch input panel may be a single touch input panel which is activated with a stylus or a finger or a multi touch input panel which is activated by one finger or a stylus or multiple fingers and the panel is capable of distinguishing between one or two or three or more touches and is capable of providing inputs derived from those touches to the processing system .

The I O devices and interfaces may also include a connector for a dock or a connector for a USB interface FireWire Thunderbolt Ethernet etc. to connect the system with another device external component or a network. Exemplary I O devices and interfaces also include wireless transceivers such as an IEEE 802.11 transceiver an infrared transceiver a Bluetooth transceiver a wireless cellular telephony transceiver e.g. 1G 2G 3G 4G or another wireless protocol to connect the data processing system with another device external component or a network and receive stored instructions data tokens etc.

It will be appreciated that one or more buses may be used to interconnect the various components shown in .

The data processing system may be a personal computer tablet style device a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular telephone with PDA like functionality a Wi Fi based telephone a handheld computer which includes a cellular telephone a media player an entertainment system or devices which combine aspects or functions of these devices such as a media player combined with a PDA and a cellular telephone in one device. In other embodiments the data processing system may be a network computer server or an embedded processing device within another device or consumer electronic product. As used herein the terms computer system device processing device and apparatus comprising a processing device may be used interchangeably with the data processing system and include the above listed exemplary embodiments.

It will be appreciated that additional components not shown may also be part of the system and in certain embodiments fewer components than that shown in may also be used in a data processing system . It will be apparent from this description that aspects of the inventions may be embodied at least in part in software. That is the computer implemented methods may be carried out in a computer system or other data processing system in response to its processor or processing system executing sequences of instructions contained in a memory such as memory or other non transitory machine readable storage medium. The software may further be transmitted or received over a network not shown via a network interface device . In various embodiments hardwired circuitry may be used in combination with the software instructions to implement the present embodiments. Thus the techniques are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software or to any particular source for the instructions executed by the data processing system .

An article of manufacture may be used to store program code providing at least some of the functionality of the embodiments described above. Additionally an article of manufacture may be used to store program code created using at least some of the functionality of the embodiments described above. An article of manufacture that stores program code may be embodied as but is not limited to one or more memories e.g. one or more flash memories random access memories static dynamic or other optical disks CD ROMs DVD ROMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or other type of non transitory machine readable media suitable for storing electronic instructions. Additionally embodiments of the invention may be implemented in but not limited to hardware or firmware utilizing an FPGA ASIC a processor a computer or a computer system including a network. Modules and components of hardware or software implementations can be divided or combined without significantly altering embodiments of the invention.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. Various embodiments and aspects of the invention s are described with reference to details discussed herein and the accompanying drawings illustrate the various embodiments. The description above and drawings are illustrative of the invention and are not to be construed as limiting the invention. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the present invention. However in certain instances well known or conventional details are not described in order to provide a concise discussion of embodiments of the present inventions.

It will be evident that various modifications may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the following claims. For example the methods described herein may be performed with fewer or more features blocks or the features blocks may be performed in differing orders. Additionally the methods described herein may be repeated or performed in parallel with one another or in parallel with different instances of the same or similar methods.

