---

title: Method and apparatus for automatically updating a primary display area
abstract: Receiving commands from a remote controller and automatically activating display areas for cursor navigation. Content display areas within a display frame respectively correspond to a variety of content items and include a primary display area wherein cursor navigation is activated and secondary display areas wherein cursor navigation is prevented. Remote controller navigational commands, for example, then allow cursor based navigation for the content item currently displayed in the primary display area. A content selection command such as a number key input of the remote controller allows immediate and automatic updating of the primary display area to include a desired content item that is associated to the command (e.g., the particular number).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08914748&OS=08914748&RS=08914748
owner: Sony Electronics Inc.
number: 08914748
owner_city: Park Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120110
---
This is a Continuation Application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 382 324 filed Mar. 13 2009 entitled Method and Apparatus for Automatically Updating a Primary Display Area listing the same inventors the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

This invention relates generally to content navigation and more particularly to a method and apparatus for selecting and focusing upon content items for navigation.

A variety of content is increasingly being accessed in the traditional television environment including not only traditional programming content but also related internet content personal content recorded content etc. It would be desirable to allow users to fully and conveniently enjoy program content while simultaneously engaging in online activities.

Ordinarily a personal computer user may use a full keyboard and mouse function in order to navigate among and select content items resident on a display screen.

However a television user typically uses a remote commander having different inputs and a limited number of keys. Thus in a situation where a user is navigating among various content items using a remote commander it can be difficult for the user to select which of several possible content items a navigational or other command should be directed to.

It would thus be beneficial to accommodate convenient selection of content items and corresponding navigation of selected content items using a remote controller in lieu of a full keyboard and mouse typically used in a personal computing environment.

The present invention allows the receipt of commands from a remote controller to automatically focus upon selected content items with cursor navigation being available for the selected content item while it is resident in a primary display area.

In one example multiple content display areas within a display frame respectively correspond to a variety of content items and include a primary display area wherein cursor navigation is activated and secondary display areas wherein cursor navigation is prevented. Remote controller navigational commands then allow cursor based navigation for the content item currently displayed in the primary display area.

A content selection command such as a number key input of the remote controller allows immediate and automatic updating of the primary display area to include a desired content item that is associated to the command e.g. the particular number .

Once the primary display area is updated the new desired content item may be freely navigated using the cursor commands of the remote controller or the like.

This accommodates navigating among various content items using available input keys of the remote controller in situations where a user may be operating a display device using the remote controller in lieu of a more extensive interface device.

In another example content display areas are displayed concurrently and at least one of those content display areas is determined to be a first focused display area wherein cursor navigation is allowed while preventing cursor navigation in the remaining content display areas. A numerical input command is received and associated to one of the remaining content display areas and it is determined that the content display area associated with the numerical input command is a second new focused display area with cursor navigation allowed therein while preventing cursor navigation in the remaining content display areas.

The plurality of content display areas may again comprise a primary display area and secondary display areas. A selection command corresponding to a selectable item within the second focused display area being one of the secondary display areas is then received and content corresponding to the selectable item is launched within the primary display area.

The present invention can be embodied in various forms including computer implemented methods computer program products computer systems and networks user interfaces application programming interfaces and the like.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous details are set forth such as flowcharts and system configurations in order to provide an understanding of one or more embodiments of the present invention. However it is and will be apparent to one skilled in the art that these specific details are not required in order to practice the present invention.

Although a DVR functionality is described this is ancillary to the features of selecting and navigating among content items. The content selection and navigation functionality may alternatively be provided in other contexts including a set top box that does not have a long term recording function or as an integrated function within a television set or in various other contexts.

The device is also configured to include a content navigation unit configured to implement one or more aspects of the invention. In the embodiment of the device includes a content processing module that further includes a content reception module a codec a content tuning module and a display interface. The content reception module is an input module that may accept video input streams in various forms e.g. National Television Standards Committee NTSC PAL Digital Satellite System DSS Digital Broadcast System DBS Advanced Television Standards Committee ATSC etc. . The streamed content may be based on Moving Pictures Experts Group MPEG standards for formatting the digital data stream that can be de multiplexed and decoded to provide signals appropriate for outputting to any conventional display device. The de multiplexing and decoding functions may be provided by the noted CODEC and content tuning modules.

The content processing module may thus receive MPEG streams such as an MPEG2 transport multiplex that supports multiple programs in the same broadcast channel with multiple video and audio feeds and private data. The output may be various conventional analog and or digital signals as appropriate for the corresponding display device. For example the output provided by the display interface may be an analog standard e.g. NTSC a digital standard e.g. ATSC or both in embodiments functioning with a conventional analog or digital television. The output may also adhere to computer monitor standards or any format for driving any type of display.

The device includes both a working memory as well as data storage . The memory stores instructions that are executed by the CPU to carry out the functionality described herein. The memory also may buffer content as it is received and decoded in conjunction with the content being provided as output to the display device. Additionally larger amounts of content may be concurrently stored in the data storage e.g. hard disk or programming may be regularly recorded onto the data storage as part of a scheduled recording.

The device also includes the program content management modules that manage content available for display and provide information used to populate display areas from which selection of content or functions may be provided. For example the program content management unit may manage EPG data to provide the content listings and related information. The EPG data may include guide data channel identification data and program data. The guide data is general information such as the current date and time. Additional information such as channel list and segment information may also be included in the guide data. The channel identification data includes data relating to channels such as the channel number channel name i.e. the call sign of a broadcast station logo ID i.e. an identification of the channel logo data ID which is an identification of a channel number of MPEG video data or MPEG audio data and other information.

The program data includes the program title start time of the program time length of the program program category such as movies news sports etc. program subcategory such as drama horror children s for the movies category or baseball basketball football for the sports category the program rating and a program description that provides a detailed description of the program. The various program entries for each channel may be provided in the sequence with which they are to be shown or in any desired fashion.

The internet content management unit includes functions for receiving and navigating among various internet content which may be social networking sites programming network sites corresponding to displayed programming and the like as will be described further below. Conventional browser based navigation and receipt of content may be provided for these features which may be rendered concurrently with the described program content.

In addition the system may organize and navigate among personal content such as photographs videos photos and the like. This and the previously described content may be stored in the local data storage or may alternatively be maintained in a larger external storage device to which the content reproducing and recording device connects for retrieval of the content. The content units are updated according to the available content regardless of where it is stored to reflect all of the available content items.

The device also includes a command interface that allows for the receipt of commands from a remote commander . The communication channel between the remote commander and the command interface may be any conventional wireless communication typically implementing an infrared signal but also potentially implementing RF or other technologies.

The remote commander is configured to include various conventional numerical buttons and navigational e.g. arrow buttons that allow the user to send commands that prompt channel selection or navigation among available content. is a schematic diagram illustrating an example of a remote controller specifically a remote commander including inputs for cursor navigation and item selection as well as numerical inputs for inputting number commands. For example a menu list such as the EPG may be displayed and the user may cursor up or down within the displayed listing and then press the centrally located select button when the cursor resides on a desired content item or item available for selection within a displayed content item e.g. operations to displayed programming such as record etc. hyperlinks to related content operations to purchase related products etc. 

The remote commander also may also optionally include a microphone interface for receiving voice commands from a user. Conventional speech recognition technology is used to identify particular commands such as a spoken number.

In another example the remote commander may include a biometric interface for receiving commands based upon biometric information of the user such as fingerprint information. There a reception area is provided on the remote commander through which the fingerprint information of a user is scanned. In conventional fashion data corresponding to the fingerprint information is collected and compared to a database of known fingerprint data which allows users to be identified accordingly. A registration mode wherein users fingerprints are read and stored for future reference may also be provided. The collection of fingerprint data and the scanning of fingerprints in order to identify users is well known and need not be described in detail herein for an understanding of this embodiment. It should also be understood that other forms of biometric identification may be provided including voice recognition facial recognition retinal scanning etc. This biometric information may be used to identify a particular person so that the selection and display of content items can be tailored according to the identified person.

The content navigation unit accommodates the management and display of content items such as within primary and secondary display areas of a display. The content navigation unit is preferably provided as software that is executed by the CPU in order to provide the functionality described herein. Alternatively the content navigation unit may be provided as hardware or firmware or any combination of software hardware and or firmware. In a software embodiment the content navigation unit comprises program code that may be stored on computer readable media and thus provides a computer program product for receiving commands from a remote controller and activating display areas for navigation.

In one embodiment the content navigation unit is configured to receive commands from a remote controller to allow perusal of content items including commands that allow the user to quickly and easily prompt focusing upon a desired content item into a primary display area within a frame within which multiple content item display areas reside.

Specifically a display containing such content items may include a primary display area and several secondary display areas. Each of these may contain content items and may respectively contain related content items.

Referring to and together is a display diagram illustrating an example of primary and secondary display areas resident within a display frame of a display device.

The content navigation unit dictates the rendering of the primary and second areas within the display frame as well as the corresponding navigational functionality among the areas the movement of content items into and out of the primary and secondary areas and the receipt of commands for initiating such operations.

The primary display area is preferably allocated a greater amount of the display area as compared to the individual secondary display areas.

A variety of different content items are respectively illustrated in the primary and secondary display areas . For example program content such as a regularly scheduled television program may be displayed in the primary display area with various related content items being concurrently displayed in the secondary display areas such as social network site content personal page content and supplemental programming network content. Thus the social networking site location within secondary area could disclose corresponding friends or other matches that are also watching the programming found in the primary display area the personal page content location within secondary area could display a view of the user s personal page while the programming content is being viewed and a supplemental programming network content location within the secondary area could display corresponding extras or the like that a network may provide in conjunction with a particular program and so on.

Preferably remote controller functions such as cursor navigation are activated for usage within the primary display area . Thus for example cursor navigation may be used to focus upon and then browse items within the primary display area using the described navigational arrows or the like and depression of a select button or the like to engage in selection of a given item. These items may be program listings links or any item that may be selected within the primary display area .

While cursor navigation is active within the primary display area it is preferably prevented in the secondary display areas . Thus as the user navigates within the primary display area the cursor location is prevented from going into the secondary display areas . This allows for focusing upon content items for more clear navigation of that content item within the primary display area . Placing a content item into the primary display area may thus also be referred to as focusing on that particular content item.

As indicated in the display diagram each of the display areas has an associated displayed number found in the upper left hand corner of the display area. These numbers preferably provide a content selection command that is distinct from cursor navigation commands. The content selection command is used to allow a user to automatically prompt focusing upon the corresponding content item so that it is placed into the primary display area . Thus when the number 1 on the remote controller is pressed the program content automatically is made to reside within the primary display area as shown. If the number 2 is pressed the rendering of the display frame is automatically updated to locate the content item indicated as Social Network Site Content within the primary display area as illustrated in . Then the user may use the cursor navigation commands provided by the remote controller to navigate among content of the social network site with the program content being displayed in the secondary area . The numbers 3 4 and 5 could respectively correspond to other content items which can be similarly focused into the primary display area .

Thus in lieu of confusing cursor navigation among the various content items that may reside within a display frame cursor navigation is discretely enabled for only the primary display area and altering which content item resides within the primary display area is separately and clearly provided by dedicated keys such as dedicated numerical input keys on the remote controller.

The first number provides the content selection command for the assigned content item and the second number activates a supplemental operation for the assigned content item. For example the supplemental operation may be recording information in the content reproducing and recording device. Thus for example the content Program Content may be a network broadcast program that the user would like to record. As indicated in the figure the first number 1 would provide the command to prompt the Program Content to reside in the primary display area . The second number 6 may prompt the supplemental operation such as initiating a recording of the Program Content as described. This allows the user to maintain the existing display frame and to record whichever content item is desired among the many displayed in the display frame while not disturbing the desired cursor navigation in the primary display area . Another example of a supplemental operation may be to launch a select item within a secondary display area into another area such as the primary display area as described further below.

There are other alternatives. Other alphanumeric keys on the remote controller may be used for the content selection command that prompts desired content item residence within the primary display area . Additionally the content selection command can be received through speech commands as received either through the remote controller or the content reproducing and recording device. There the user may simply speak the number of the desired content item and the rendering of the display frame automatically updates with the desired content item resident within the primary display area .

Still referring to the primary and secondary display areas respectively include a displayed number in the upper left hand corner of the display area. Similar to the previously described example receiving a selection of the number from the remote controller corresponding to a given display area prompts focusing upon the display area.

When the display area is focused upon the cursor moves into that display area and cursor navigation is enabled within that display area and preferably prevented in the other display areas i.e. those not currently focused upon . For example while the display corresponding to is active the user may press the number 3 on the remote controller.

The cursor navigational inputs on the remote controller allow the user to navigate within the focused display area e.g. up down left right so that the cursor may be moved to reside over any desired selectable item. is a display diagram updated to represent navigation within the particular secondary display area with the cursor resident over selectable item as indicated by the dotted lines .

According to still another aspect of the present invention while within the focused display area the user may choose to launch a selectable item into the primary display area . This for example may be done by moving the cursor onto the desired item and then pressing the select button. The left facing arrow in offers a conceptual depiction of receiving the select command while the cursor is resident over selectable item

The content navigation unit includes a display area management module a primary display area navigation module an available content module and a remote controller interface .

The display area management module determines which content items are desired for presentation and prompts rendering of the display frame accordingly with the primary and secondary areas located and sized as desired such as described above.

The determination of relevant content items may be based upon user preferences that are separately input during a set up mode. This may be accommodated by having the user indicate desired web sites or other content items to be displayed. The rendering of certain areas pertaining to websites may be assisted by technology for maintaining an association of the device e.g. content recording and reproducing device with a given user. Thus a social network site personal page particular to a user may automatically be rendered without requiring repeated entry of login credentials etc.

The determination of relevant content items may also be automatically determined in certain circumstances. For example certain programming content available from a television network may have predetermined related content items such as a content item pertinent to the network generally or another content item particularly arranged for the program message boards about the program etc. This content may be used to populate one or more of the primary or secondary display areas as well.

The primary display area navigation module includes program code for allowing cursor navigation within the content item displayed in the primary display area as well as rendering the content item within the primary display area accordingly. It thus manages the receipt of cursor navigation commands as well as the corresponding display of content items and cursor operations within the primary display area.

The available content module communicates with the various content management units such as those in the content reproducing and recording device. The available content module accesses the information maintained in these content management units in order to present content items to the user during both selection if manual selection is provided and operational modes. The available content module may maintain a separate database of available content items so as to organize the relationships of content items to be concurrently displayed in primary and secondary display areas.

Finally the remote controller interface receives commands from the remote controller recognizes the commands and passes instructions to the display area management module and the primary display management module to carry out the functionality of cursor navigation of the content item in the primary display area and updating the primary and secondary display areas based upon receipt of numerical input commands as described.

Various technologies may be used to render the display areas in appropriate locations as well as cursor movement and the selection of items and then launching selected items into desired areas. For example these features may be implemented on an interactive platform as supported by a set top box content recording and reproducing device or the like which may be based upon HTML and or Javascript with rendering capabilities built in or may be browser based with corresponding functionality provided by applets controls or the like.

The process commences with receipt of a command to enter the content item selection and navigation mode of operation. This may for example be accommodated by receiving a command from a dedicated key found on the remote controller. Once in this mode the content display area display frame is configured to display the primary and secondary display areas as described. Cursor navigation is allowed in the primary display area and may be prevented in the secondary display areas.

One of the content items is displayed in the primary display area such as program content a program guide a social network site etc. The particular content item that is currently focused upon and thus found in the primary display area can be navigated using cursor based navigation corresponding to navigational commands received via remote controller operation.

As described and as illustrated in above each of the content items has a corresponding assigned number that is preferably displayed along with the content item for easy user association of the number to the content item.

While the content selection and navigation mode is active when a particular number command is received from the remote controller and is associated with one of the content items the primary display area is updated such that the associated content item is displayed therein with cursor navigation commands then being applicable only to the new content item displayed in the primary display area. As noted above in addition to remote controller key inputs a voice command e.g. of the same number as shown on the display may alternatively be used to prompt changes to the content item to be displayed in the primary display area.

The process similarly entails receiving a command to enter the content selection and navigation mode which results in a starting display with primary and secondary display areas such as shown in . This may initially involve displaying the content display area and secondary display areas with initial focus and thus cursor navigation being provided within the primary display area.

A number command is then received from the remote controller corresponding to one of the secondary display areas whereupon the focus is shifted to the desired display area. This entails moving the cursor command control to within the secondary display control matching the input number. Once this occurs the unit receives and responds to navigational commands to move a cursor about the secondary display area and a variety of selectable content items found therein. When the cursor resides over a desired item a command e.g. select on the remote controller may then be used to launch the corresponding item into the primary display area.

Network communications with other devices such as an external storage device content reproducing device or portable device may be made between the content reproducing and recording device and those devices in conventional fashion.

The supplemental operations described above as being initiated by a second numerical association with a content item may thus involve not only supplemental operations provided by the content reproducing and recording device but also these other network connected devices . Thus the user may opt to push content items to these other devices for current or subsequent enjoyment or the like through simple remote controller key based commands.

Thus embodiments of the present invention produce and provide receiving commands from a remote controller and activating display areas for navigation. Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain embodiments thereof the invention may be variously embodied without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Therefore the following claims should not be limited to the description of the embodiments contained herein in any way.

