---

title: Universal ground adapter for marine cables
abstract: An electrical conduit ground device is provided for electrically and environmentally shielding an electric cable. The device includes a conduit having a receiving end through which the cable passes axially; an internal seal that inserts into the receiving end; a gland boss that inserts into the receiving end; an external seal that inserts into the boss and extends axially outward from the receiving end; and a grounding assembly disposed between the internal and external seals. The assembly includes an adapter for providing electrical grounding contact between the cable and the swage tube; a space-retainer for structurally supporting the adapter; and a washer for axially separating the internal and external seals. The adapter is provided for electrically connecting an interior surface of a conduit and an external surface of a cable. The adapter includes an electrically conductive and mechanically flexible sheet having first and second edges that can face each other, the sheet being configured to form an annulus that mechanically contacts the external surface of the cable and a periphery that mechanically contacts the inner surface of the conduit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08562361&OS=08562361&RS=08562361
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08562361
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120126
---
Pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 the benefit of priority from provisional application 61 628 298 with a filing date of Oct. 11 2011 is claimed for this non provisional application.

The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to ground adapters for electrical cables especially those used aboard marine vessels and platforms. In particular the invention relates to embodiments for low impedance designs of a cable shield ground adapter CSGA .

The United States Navy currently employs two technologies to provide electromagnetic EM protection from coupling to topside i.e. above deck cables conduit which provides an overall EM shield to cables placed within the conduit and shielded cables with CSGAs used as termination connectors. Both technologies are viable but components used are expensive and difficult to maintain. The proposed CSGA embodiments deal almost exclusively with shielded cables and conduits. These are not explicitly described herein with respect to further applications although the technology could be applied to the conduit shell whether flexible or rigid.

Conventional CSGA designs have been proven to be effective at grounding cable shielding when properly installed achieving grounding effectiveness measures that exceed 80 decibels dB . The conventional designs are designed for use with swage tubes also known as stuffing tubes. Glenair Inc. of Glendale Calif. provides the primary conventional design currently in use. The Glenair configuration requires the installer to employ CSGA components designed for specific cable sizes and swage tube sizes. Failure to use the exact tube size leads to performance failure for the system. The Glenair CSGA also requires the installer to remove and discard the gland nut typically supplied with the swage tube by the swage tube manufacturer.

Once installed the system is not easily repaired. Repair of a failed adapter can be accomplished through one of two methods. The first method requires the disconnection of the shielded cable from the system interface connector through cutting or de soldering removal and replacement of the failed component and replacement of the interface connector. The second method requires a CSGA called a Split Connector that represents a device used for in situ replacement of the failed CSGA.

The failed CSGA must be removed from the swage tube and the split connector is installed in its place. The components from the failed connector are then taped to the upper part of the cable and remain in place for the life of the connector or until the CSGA assembly is replaced during a refit. The Glenair system uses an exterior weather proof boot to provide exterior weather protection but lacks interior protection against water intrusion. Their catalog is available at http www.glenair.com catalogs entire catalog shipboard.pdf for lists of parts. A 3 02 minute video presentation on MIL PRF 24758A Conduit Assembly and EMI Shield Termination Procedure available at Glenair at http www.glenair.com video 24758a full monty.htm and more generally in a 2 57 minute presentation as MIL PRF 24758A Shipboard Conduit Assembly at http www.youtube.com watch v Abmj0IN A40 without audio . Airmar Technology in Milford N.H. also provides an installation guide in http www.airmartechnology.com uploads installguide 17 423 01.pdf.

Another conventional CSGA design SkinTop is available from LAPP Group Inc. of Florham Park N.J. The SkinTop design incorporates squared off contact fingers which in addition to forming an ohmic contact also perform a cable centering function. Without the squaring off of the contact the cable would tend to roll off center. The resultant structural loading imposes the requirement of stiffer materials and shorter finger lengths for the SkinTop design. The smallest clamping cable diameter for the conventional SkinTop design is 0.118 inch with a maximum variation of cable diameter of approximately 0.512 for their largest design.

Additionally the conventional Skintop requires the use of a machined cable gland assembly and is therefore not adaptable to variances in the inner diameter of the swage tube. This imposes limits in the design as to the exact size of the swage tube s inner diameter the units of measure metric or SAE and thread type of swage tube. The SkinTop design also requires the removal and subsequent disposal of the gland nut supplied with the swage tube by the manufacturer. The basic design of the SkinTop system appears more robust than the Glenair system. However once installed the SkinTop arrangement is not easily repaired. Repair of a failed adapter requires the disconnection of the shielded cable from the system interface connector through cutting or de soldering removal and replacement of the failed component and replacement of the interface connector. The Skintop system uses a gland washer to provide exterior weather protection and a weather proof boot can be added to provide additional exterior weather protection. Interior protection against water intrusion is not provided.

Conventional electrical ground adapters yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular various exemplary embodiments provide an electrical conduit ground device for electrically and environmentally shielding an electric cable. The device includes a conduit having a receiving end through which the cable passes axially an internal seal that inserts into the receiving end a gland boss that inserts into the receiving end an external seal that inserts into the boss and extends axially outward from the receiving end and a grounding assembly disposed between the internal and external seals.

The assembly includes an adapter for providing electrical grounding contact between the cable and the swage tube a space retainer for structurally supporting the adapter and a washer for axially separating the internal and external seals. Various exemplary embodiments provide the adapter for electrically connecting an interior surface of a conduit and an external surface of a cable. The adapter includes an electrically conductive and mechanically flexible sheet having first and second edges that can face each other the sheet being configured to form an annulus that mechanically contacts the external surface of the cable and a periphery that mechanically contacts the inner surface of the conduit.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

Various exemplary embodiments related to the invention were developed for the purposes of providing a Cable Shield Ground Adapter CSGA with the following characteristics important for use in marine environments and in particular shipboard environments 

Universal Adaptive electrical grounding contact for all sizes of cable or conduit applicable to the maximum interior dimensions of a swage tube whether metric or SAE.

Universal Adaptive electrical grounding contact for minor variances in the interior diameter of swage stuffing tubes due to SAE or metric sizing.

Three potential designs for CSGAs have been developed with maritime utility and exposure to the marine environment as a design driver. These can be notionally referred to as snowflake roll o dex and lantern for purposes of description. Each of these embodiments incorporates a unique deformable conductive diaphragm as the principle component with additional ancillary components common to all three designs. These ancillary components provide for stability during deformation and environmental sealing along with strain relief.

Various exemplary embodiments as described by the proposed designs described as follows overcome all of the design shortcomings of the above listed conventional designs. The exemplary CSGA embodiments are each adaptable to both variances in cable size as well as variances in swage tube diameters using a bidirectional deformable contact design not incorporated in either of the above examples. For example the snowflake diaphragm is designed with peripheral flexible contact fingers along the entire circumference of the diaphragm. This feature is not found in any other known design.

Each of the three embodiments utilize the gland nut supplied with the swage tube to lock components in place and therefore thread size issues common to both the above listed alternatives can be completely avoided so as to enable universal use of the proposed adapters. Each embodiment incorporates ancillary components that can be reused during repair and replacement of the grounding diaphragm and should last the life of the platform with only maintenance needed during refit periods. The grounding diaphragm is designed to be easily repaired in situ with removal and replacement of same type diaphragm components as used in initial installations. Additionally fitted gaskets are provided for both exterior and interior water intrusion protection with the inner gasket serving as a stabilizing base for the deformable diaphragm.

All three embodiments employ standard components that include the stuffing or swage tube the gland nut that accompanies the swage tube from the manufacturer the exterior environmental seal the stabilizing washer the conductive retainer and the internal seal . The following is a description of each common component followed by a description of the unique components of each design. In particular conventional arrangements do not incorporate the internal seal .

The swage tube is a flared section of pipe made of an electrically conductive material such as steel or aluminum that provides for a grounded penetration through a wall or bulkhead. These components are generally circumferentially welded to the bulkhead but can be threaded under certain circumstances. The purpose of this component is to provide an access point through the bulkhead for the transiting cable .

The gland nut is a component provided by the manufacturer to cap the end of the swage tube . These nuts are typically machined from brass to the proper diameter and exterior screw thread example shown in to ensure a mechanically tight fit with the swage tube . Most gland nut types have a port machined into their center to permit a cable to pass through. The gland nut provides centering for the cable immediately entering through the nut but this is not designed to provide either weather sealing or tension relief.

The exterior environmental seal is employed by each of the designs which all utilize a hermetic sealing system which also acts as a centering mechanism as further described in for the cable . The outer diameter of the exterior environmental seal is slightly larger than the inner diameter of the gland nut . shows views of the interface assembly. The complete assembly view shows the sleeve formed by inner annulus of the body of the external seal enveloped by the gland nut and an exemplary generic diaphragm resembling the snowflake embodiment disposed within the retainer and sandwiched between a pair of washers . The gland nut and the interior seal are inserted into the swage tube through the bowl end and the external seal extends from within the gland nut . A detail view shows the primary load path imposed by tightening of the gland nut within the swage tube . The conductive diaphragm represents exemplary components of which the configuration shown constitutes one example design.

A reaction load due to the compression of the external seal on the inner surface of the gland nut creates a sealing surface thereby preventing leakage. The annular compression of the external seal causes the inner diameter of the external seal to slightly decrease. When there is a cable in the external seal the jacket of the cable compresses by the deformation of the external seal hermetically sealing the region between the cable jacket and inner annulus of the external seal . The tip of the external seal is beveled to enable the seal to easily slide into the axial aperture of the gland nut . The tip extends slightly above the gland nut to provide tension relief to the cable .

The bottom of the seal is flared to form a continuous surface for the gland nut to compress. The flared section of the external seal is filleted to inhibit stress concentrations so as to obviate tearing from pulling the seated cable . Once the assembly is installed the flared section compresses between the gland nut and the stabilizing washer . The compressed flared section acts a spring mass dampening system to enable the internal structure to be resilient to degradation and fatigue failure initiated from external vibrations.

At least one stabilizing washer and preferably a pair of these is also used by all three concepts. The washers have the same inner diameter as the uncompressed external environmental seal and outer diameter as the inner diameter of the swage tube . The stabilizing washer performs several functions such as to reduce the pressure placed on the external and internal environmental seals by the retainer . When the gland nut is tightened to seat the system the load transmits through the external environmental seal to the stabilizing washer through the retainer back through another stabilizing washer and divides into the internal environmental seal and swage tube . The curve arrow indicates the general load path. The small downward arrows indicate the applied load from tightening the gland nut and the small upward arrows show the reaction load when the lower seal is pressed inward.

Another function of the stabilizing washer is to perform cable centering. shows a plan view of an exemplary diaphragm corresponding to the snowflake configuration. In particular the left diaphragm includes a split for wrapping around a tube corresponding to the cable sheath . The right diaphragm shows the tube canted towards the bottom left side.

The centering feature is critical to the proper function of the various designs and is provided via the stabilizing washers the environmental seals and the gland nut . The stabilizing washer and retainer provide a centering load to the cable enabling the diaphragm in any of the three proposed designs to deform in a symmetric way. Absent this centering component the cable would experience rolling within the diaphragm structure leading to incomplete or sub optimal ohmic contact of the diaphragm with the cable shield. This type of rolling is depicted for the snowflake diaphragm design shown for the tube in within the opening in .

The retainer or conductive spacer performs three primary functions it provides for consistent contact pressure between the diaphragm the stabilizing washer and the interior of the swage tube enhancing ohmic response providing for a minimum component mechanical volume for the diaphragm under deformation providing for optimal structural integrity. The retainer provides for the shaping and controlled deformation of the diaphragm during installation to ensure optimal ohmic contact between the diaphragm and an interior surface in of the swage tube .

The internal environmental seal will compress when coming in contact with the inner surface of the swage tube . The compression causes a deformation of the internal environmental seal reducing the inner diameter of the cable opening. A cable that extends within the opening experiences a compressive load sealing both the interface between the cable and the internal seal and the swage tube and the external seal .

Due to the torsional flexibility of the adapter the snowflake design can be adapted to a variety of cable sizes. The conventional Skintop employs a flexible diaphragm similar in concept to the snowflake design. Significant physical differences can be noted between the conventional and exemplary snowflake designs are manifest in the function of the diaphragms.

The resultant structural loading for the SkinTop design imposes the requirement of stiffer materials and shorter finger lengths thereby limiting its range of applicable cable sizes as compared to the snowflake embodiment. The smallest clamping diameter for the snowflake design is limited only by the resolution of the stamping and is likely to be less than 0.04 inches and maximum variation is limited by the maximum cable size that can be transited by the swage tube . The snowflake diaphragm is non load bearing this feature being ascribed to different components described in detail below. This enables the snowflake to be composed of non structural materials such as foil laminates and to have finger lengths that extend fully to the center of the diaphragm.

For the first or snowflake embodiment the design unique component is the conductive diaphragm or adapter which operates in conjunction with the retainer . The adapter constitutes an electrically conductive circular disc. The radial slots starting from the center of the adapter and extending outwards toward the circular periphery or rim . These form the flexible fingers that slide over the shield of a cable . There are also shorter conductive fingers on the perimeter of the diaphragm to enable the adapter to deform and fit snugly into the swage tube despite mild variation in the tube diameter providing optimal ohmic contact with the inner surface of the swage tube .

Because the diaphragm is non load bearing this component can be made from a variety of very thin materials so long as the material s elastic deformation range is adequate to support the installed component under load without yielding to plastic deformation and possesses electrically conductive characteristics. Foil covered plastic sheets could be used in this particular design. This design characteristic renders the snowflake and the other embodiments unique.

A second design feature of the snowflake design is the utilization of a split ring topography. The split enables the deformed adapter to be removed or replaced after a cable has been terminated to the equipment interface. This is a unique feature of all three designs implemented in consideration of the difficulty and considerable cost of repairing a cable shield ground adapter on an installed system. This design feature is not found in any conventional configuration.

A third feature of the snowflake design is the ability to stack multiple adapters within the swage tube further enhancing the ohmic path from the cable shield to the inner surface of the swage tube . With each doubling in the number of adapters in the stack the ohmic path reduces by the same factor. The stacking could be arranged on either side of the conductive retainer or with adapters in direct contact such as a stack of coins.

The spacer or retainer may serve two purposes. The retainer mechanically responds to form a load path to transmit the compressive force developed by the tightening of the gland nut . The distribution of force over the diaphragm s periphery helps seat the diaphragm within the stuffing tube bowl ensuring optimal ohmic contact between the diaphragm and the inner wall of the swage tube . The second purpose of the retainer is to reduce the ohmic path to the swage tube by providing a larger contact area.

For the second embodiment the unique component of the roll o dex design is the electrically conductive adapter being constructed from a single piece of conductive material. The adapter is not load bearing and therefore a thin conductive material can be used for its construction. The tabs and are bent in alternating opposing directions being repeated for all tabs. The roll o dex adapter is designed to elastically deform into an annular shape with the pointed tabs facing toward the central axis cavity of the roll. The adapter can be placed inside the retainer and unfurl thereby securing itself inside the retainer . The unique feature of the roll o dex design is that the adapter can be stacked as a doublet using the retainer to hold the pair in place. This increases the surface contact area between the adapter and the interior surface of the swage tube thereby providing an enhanced ohmic grounding path.

The outer flexible finger tabs in contact the inner surface of the swage tube thereby providing a good electrical contact and tolerance to varying sizes of swage tubes . The pointed tabs are plastically deformed orthogonal to the inner surface of the base ring toward the center region of the annulus. These pointed tabs slide on the shielding of the cable providing the electrical contact. The flexible nature of the pointed tabs enables for the use of cables having varying size diameters.

The conducting retainer serves three functions. First the retainer acts to form a load path to transmit the compressive force developed by the tightening of the gland nut . The distribution of force over the peripheral rim of the diaphragm facilitates seating the adapter within the stuffing tube bowl ensuring optimal ohmic contact between the deformed diaphragm and the inner surface of the swage tube .

The second function of the retainer is to hold the roll o dex adapter into an annular shape. The foil strip is rolled into an annular cylindrical adapter and inserted into the retainer . This retainer adapter sub assembly is then placed inside of the swage tube through which the cable can be inserted. The third purpose is to reduce the ohmic path to the swage tube by providing a larger contact area.

Installation of the grounding sleeve is accomplished by wrapping the sheet around the circumference of a shielded and jacketed cable . The toothed strip is wrapped Such that the teeth and can pierce the cable jacket and form an annulus about the cable . The sleeve is then secured into place either through the use of a crimping tool or a separate retaining ring or strap. That retaining ring can be conductive or non conductive depending on its size and location relative to the anticipated contact point of the adapter which can be installed over the sleeve to complete a grounding path between the conduit shield and the inner surface of the swage tube .

The grounding sleeve can be easily removed and replaced and provides a method whereby the cable jacket need not be cut to allow the adapter to gain good ohmic contact with the cable shield. The accidental cutting of the shield through poor installation practices constitutes one of the primary causes of installation related failures. Another cause is poor environmental protection of the cable shield which results in a significant amount of corrosion of the cable shield which can be obviated by the interior seal .

The conductive adapter for the lantern design constitutes a cut sheet with two parallel border strips and that in rolled form produce corresponding parallel rings and . These rings and are connected together by a number of ribs and also include tabs cut orthogonal to the borders. The ribs and tabs can be scored for controlled deformation of the sheet .

The conductive adapter is designed to elastically deform into an annular cage form. The strip cut from a metal sheet can be rolled along an axis parallel to the slats to form the annular cage structure for insertion between and secured by two conductive retainers . Tabs cut into the strip are bent outward to secure the strip now rolled into the adapter and to prevent the conductive retainers from slipping toward the center of the adapter under compressive loads. The ribs when compressed bend along the scoring marks creating contact fingers that simultaneously extend radially inward and outward as inner edges and outer edges while compressing the cage structure. This enables the ribs to concurrently center themselves on the shield of the cable and within the swage tube . The simultaneous extension allows this adapter to accommodate the widest variety of cables and tube sizes.

An additional feature that can be implemented on the lantern design is the addition of teeth to the inner finger contacts. As the inner finger edges extend and make contact with the cable the teeth pierce the cable jacket to make ohmic contact with the conductive cable shield . This implementation of the lantern design provides a unique means by which a cable can be grounded without physically cutting away part of the jacket. Removing the necessity to cut away the jacket obviates exposure of the cable shield to the most common source of shield damage. Additionally this method reduces the areal i.e. bounded space exposure of the cable shield to environmental factors that lead to degradation of the ohmic contact between the cable and the ground adapter .

The retainers are designed to have an outer diameter to match the inner diameter of the swage tube which should match the diameter of the adapter when properly deformed. The retainers when compressed serve as a load path for the compressive load imparted by the gland nut when tightened. This also serves to stabilize the adapter upon full compression.

Commercial Potential The commercial potential for the ground shield adapter described within broad and global in nature. The designs can be used for commercial as well as naval ship construction. Due to the inherent design tolerance for either Society of Automotive Engineers SAE or metric dimensions for swage tubes the design can be utilized for both domestic and foreign ship construction. Although designed with maritime applications in mind the designs can also be utilized for general construction practices where swage tubes or breach type fittings might be required for facility cable penetrations that require grounding stabilization or weather sealing.

Reason The United States Navy utilizes hundreds of topside components that require electrical power or signal connections to systems internal to the ship via cable. Because of the complex and system hostile EM environment the connecting cables must be protected from unwanted EM coupling to the signal or power cable. The cables therefore are protected from the EM environment by a conductive cable shield grounded via a CSGA to the ship s bulkhead.

Current CSGA technologies utilized by the Navy are difficult to manufacture due to machining difficult to install repair and replace due to design characteristics have relatively short service life due to poor environmental design and are very expensive approximately 300.00 per unit in quantity . The Navy also currently purchases CSGAs in multiple sizes due to the conventional CSGAs inability to adapt to multiple swage tube sizes or cable diameters. This significantly increases acquisition logistics and design costs. The strategic goal of the proposed design is to provide the Navy a cost efficient technology that can significantly reduce total ownership costs via acquisition maintenance and logistics across the fleet.

Advantages The new designs utilize relatively few parts with most components being common to all three designs with the exception of the grounding diaphragm. Common components include environmental seals that also perform as stabilizing structural components for cable centering and conductive spacers that perform diaphragm deformation control functions. The grounding diaphragm itself is a cut stamped component made out of conductive sheeting.

The sheeting can be any useable conductive material depending on application such as brass copper stainless steel aluminum or carbon impregnated sheeting. The required thickness of the sheeting depends on the design. The exemplary designs also utilize all components of the stuffing tube assembly. This includes the brass gland nut used as an integrating component and currently unused for shielded cable applications due to design characteristics of conventionally available CSGAs. Conventionally CSGA assembly discards the gland nut resulting in waste higher incurred costs to the Navy.

Alternatives include 1 Use of conventional CSGA designs examples of which are described within this disclosure. 2 Use of a grounding technology proposed by Northrop Grumman Ship Builders NGSB known for its use of Double Optimized Braid DOB Cable Shielding. This material approach uses bronze or brass wool as the material matrix that provides grounding between the cable shield and the swage tube. The material has a relatively high surface area to volume ratio that lends concern to issues of corrosion and loss of effective grounding. This wool greatly simplifies replacement of the grounding material.

Cut less Cable Shield Grounding Sleeve The Cut less Cable Shield Grounding Sleeve is a device whereby a typical cable shield ground adapter can be provided good ohmic contact with a cable shield without removal of the cable protective jacket. The exemplary device described herein is formed from a single sheet stamping of an appropriate conductive material such as copper stainless steel or aluminum. The sheet can be stamped so that at least two rows of small teeth and protrude on one side. These teeth in the exemplary implementation can be arranged in orthogonal directions to provide stability for the collar when the sheet s ends and join together and the resulting sleeve is properly installed.

Testing of correctly installed conventional CSGAs in stuffing tube installations has yielded an average direct current DC resistance of approximately 10 milliohms m . Testing of early prototypes of the new exemplary CSGA design has yielded an average DC resistance of 7 m or less based on design tested. Early results indicate that the DC resistance of the new design is at least comparable to conventional designs.

Dimensions of exemplary stuffing or swage tubes are available from Research Tool Die Works in Carson Calif. For example the D size stuffing tube as indicated in http www.rtnd.com catalog 4 8.pdf includes an inner diameter of 1 and a throat length of 1 . The proposed diameter of the first embodiment would be slightly larger to ensure a circumferential contact by an interference fit with the inside of the swage tube .

The length of the second and third embodiments would match the circumference of the inner ring . This exemplary ring has a diameter that is approximately less than the diameter of the swage tube . The particular dimensions identified herein represent explanatory examples and are not limiting. Thus other stuffing tube and conduit sizes can be contemplated within the spirit of the claims. MIL S 24235 2C provides the military standard dimensions for electrical cable packaging MIL S 24235 available at http dornequipment.com milspecs pdf 24235 2C.pdf.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

