---

title: Method and system for implementing behavior isolating prediction model
abstract: According to an embodiment of the present invention, a computer implemented method and system for isolating variables in a behavior prediction model comprises: identifying a plurality of groups comprising a first group of variables and a second group of variables; building a model, using a computer processor, for capturing an effect of the first group of variables in predicting behavior for customers; building a subsequent stage of the model, using a computer processor, on a second group of variables to neutralize the effect of the first group of variables; displaying results of the model wherein the results minimize the effect of the first group of variables in predicting behavior at a user interface; and identifying a response based on the results for a segment of the customers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09400983&OS=09400983&RS=09400983
owner: JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A.
number: 09400983
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120510
---
The present invention relates generally to predicting behavior and more specifically to implementing a behavior isolating prediction model that isolates a set of variables that typically heavily dominate the behavior and thereby base the prediction on another set of variables.

In general attrition models that are applied to the financial industry demographics are known to dominate the effect of the prediction. For example for programs that require a minimum balance most standard models tend to trend toward more affluent households who have the capability to participate. As a result this general demographic dominates the models. Thus more affluent households regardless of their actual behavior and other important considerations are generally flagged as being very unlikely to attrite.

Moreover traditional models that control for affluence requires pre segmentation in terms of determining cutoffs. However the cutoffs are sometimes arbitrary. For most segmentations there is a good amount of variability even within each segment. For example a high affluence segment may range from total deposits of 500 000 to 5 million. Within segments valuable information is lost between the bottom of one segment to the top of that segment.

Accordingly one aspect of an embodiment of the present invention is to address one or more of the drawbacks set forth above. According to an exemplary embodiment a method and system neutralizes the effect of particular attributes of interest that may otherwise dominate a model allowing the model to predict behavior for a given individual relative to other individuals that are similar in terms of these attributes. A method and system of an embodiment of the present invention seek to remove the effect of a set of variables that strongly affects a behavior so as to measure the effect of another set of variables. The technique is broad enough to apply in a wide variety of forums. An exemplary application of an embodiment of the present invention focuses on attrition behavior in a retail banking environment.

According to an exemplary embodiment of the present invention a computer implemented method and system for isolating variables in a behavior prediction model the method and system comprises identifying a plurality of groups comprising a first group of variables and a second group of variables building a model using a computer processor for capturing an effect of the first group of variables in predicting behavior for customers building a subsequent stage of the model using a computer processor on a second group of variables to neutralize the effect of the first group of variables displaying results of the model wherein the results minimize the effect of the first group of variables in predicting behavior at a user interface and identifying a response based on the results for a segment of the customers.

In accordance with other aspects of this exemplary embodiment of the present invention the method and system may further include the model predicts likelihood of attrition in a banking application the first group of variables comprises demographic variables the second group of variables comprises network strength variables or product relationship variables the second group of variables comprises network strength variables and the plurality of groups comprises a third group of variables comprising product relationship variables further comprises combining the results with one or more results of one or more additional iterations of applying the model and viewing the combined results in a matrix format the variables for one or more of the first group and the second group are defined by the user further comprises defining an order sequence for applying each group of the plurality of groups to the model the response comprises a tailored marketing offer based on the results a user selects an algorithm for building the model and a user interacts with the results of the model by making changes to the model.

Demographic variables e.g. age income wallet strongly influence attrition to the extent that they typically block any easily observed effect of other factors. Attrition as it relates to a financial institution for example may represent whether a customer will close their account and move their business elsewhere. While the financial institution cannot control demographic variables it can control other parameters such as product offerings how they communicate the offers how to market products etc. An embodiment of the present invention may be directed to measuring the effect of variables such as network strength and product relationship while removing the effects of other variables such as demographics and other uncontrollable variables. By predicting behavior for an individual based on factors other than demographics but in such a way that the prediction is relative to other individuals with similar demographics a financial institution is better positioned to address issues relating to product offers and relationships that are within their control. Moreover this tool provides valuable information useful to better target and tailor marketing efforts.

According to an embodiment of the present invention isolation modeling may involve a technique for predicting behavior based on a group of variables. The variables may be defined and customized depending on the application and other considerations. An embodiment of the present invention may predict behavior based on one group of variables while having neutralized the effect of other groups of variables in prior stages of the modeling process. Isolation modeling according to an embodiment of the present invention may be a multi stage approach that provides the ability to predict for example behavior due only to product relationship variables assuming other demographic and network effects are neutralized. The use of multiple isolation models may provide clarity as to why a household is expected to behave as predicted. Using household checking retention as an example isolation modeling provides more accurate predictions where demographics or another primary factor heavily dominate. As a result the ability to target households based on whether they are likely to attrite due to demographics network or product relationship factors enables relevant use of creatives offers servicing etc.

A benefit of isolation modeling over more traditional approaches e.g. a pre segmentation approach is the ability to maintain full sample as well as avoid a priori decisions on segmentation cutoffs that would otherwise be necessary.

Checking attrition is generally correlated with younger lower balance households that live further away from branch locations. Standard models for predicting attrition place a heavy emphasis on variables such as wallet income and age which are highly correlated with lower balance. Thus an embodiment of the present invention may predict a household s likelihood to attrite based on their relationship with the bank while having neutralized the effect of demographics. The likelihood to attrite would be relative to other households that look similar in terms of demographics. For instance a more affluent household may be predicted to attrite based on their product relationship relative to other more affluent households as opposed to purely demographic factors. As a result misclassifications may be effectively reduced by neutralizing the effect of demographic network strength and isolating product behavior indicative of attrition.

User communication device may be a computer a personal computer a laptop a cellular communication device a workstation a mobile device a phone a handheld PC a personal digital assistant PDA a thin system a fat system a network appliance an Internet browser or other any other device that may allow a user to communicate with an application system and the plurality of communication devices e.g. computer wireless mobile communication device etc. associated with other users via the communication network .

The communication network may be coupled to Isolation Engine and one or more communication devices e.g. user communication device etc. . The communication network may be a wireless network a wired network or any combination of wireless network and wired network. For example the communication network may include one or more of a public switched telephone network PTSN a signaling system 7 SS7 network a fiber optics network a passive optical network a cable network an Internet network a satellite network e.g. operating in Band C Band Ku or Band Ka a wireless LAN a Global System for Mobile Communication GSM a Personal Communication Service PCS a Personal Area Network PAN D AMPS Wi Fi Fixed Wireless Data IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.15.1 802.11n and 802.11g or any other wired or wireless network for transmitting and receiving a data signal. In addition the communication network may include without limitation telephone line fiber optics IEEE Ethernet 802.3 wide area network WAN local area network LAN or global network such as the Internet. The communication network may support an Internet network a wireless communication network a cellular network or the like or any combination thereof. The communication network may further include one or any number of the exemplary types of networks mentioned above operating as a stand alone network or in cooperation with each other. The communication network may include a plurality of mobile switching centers MSCs and a plurality of signaling control points SCPs .

The communication network may utilize one or more protocols of one or more network elements to which it is communicatively coupled. The communication network may translate to or from other protocols to one or more protocols of network devices. Although the communication network is depicted as one network it should be appreciated that according to one or more embodiments the communication network may comprise a plurality of interconnected networks such as for example a service provider network the Internet a broadcaster s network a cable television network corporate networks and home networks.

Isolation Engine may be affiliated or associated with a Provider such as a financial institution marketing company and or other entity interested in behavior isolation. Provider may host or support Isolation Engine . In this example the behavior modeling may appear to be performed by Provider as a single consolidated unit. According to another example Isolation Engine may be separate and distinct from Provider . While a single illustrative block module or component is shown these illustrative blocks modules or components may be multiplied for various applications or different application environments. In addition the modules or components may be further combined into a consolidated unit. Other architectures may be realized. The modules and or components may be further duplicated combined and or separated across multiple systems at local and or remote locations.

Upon receiving a request from user Isolation Engine may access databases and or other sources of information to perform behavior isolation prediction in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. For example Isolation Engine may access and or maintain Database and or other database . The databases may be further combined and or separated. The databases may reside at a single location or separated through multiple locations. In addition the databases may be supported by Provider or an independent service provider. For example an independent service provider may support the one or more databases and or other functionality at a remote location. Other architectures may be realized. The components of the exemplary system diagrams may be duplicated combined separated and or otherwise modified as desired by various applications of the embodiments of the present invention as well as different payment environments and platforms.

Database may represent a profile database for storing and maintaining profile information for each customer or household. Each profile may include demographic information product information network information historical data preferences including a method of payment frequency of payment preferred notification method and other relevant information.

In addition Isolation Engine may have access to other sources of data and or data feeds that identify other metrics and or information that may be relevant for processing payments. For example Isolation Engine may receive financial metrics. Financial metrics may be useful in accurately predicting how much a household is expected to maintain based on historical information. Financial metrics may be helpful in further refining behavior prediction. For example an embodiment of the present invention may predict certain attrition behavior for a household. However if their financial impact to the bank is minimal this information may be considered in how they are strategically marketed. In other words it may not be financially worthwhile the additional marketing efforts and costs in trying to keep this customer from leaving.

Isolation Engine may include various modules and interfaces for performing isolation behavior prediction according to an embodiment of the present invention. Isolation Engine may include User Interface Application Module Define Group Module Define Variable Module Models Algorithms Module and and or other modules interfaces and or processors as represented by Other Module . While a single illustrative block module or component is shown these illustrative blocks modules or components may be multiplied for various applications or different application environments. In addition the modules or components may be further combined into a consolidated unit. Other architectures may be realized. The modules and or components may be further duplicated combined and or separated across multiple systems at local and or remote locations.

An embodiment of the present invention may be particularly useful for situations where a group of variables can have a significant effect on the model output lessening the influence from other variables that are of interest as predictors. Isolation Engine may provide the ability to isolate certain groups of variables in terms of predicting behavior while neutralizing the effect of others. An embodiment of the present invention may be directed to a software modeling algorithm that neutralizes the effect of a certain group of variables Group 1 before predicting household behavior based on a different group of variables Group 2 . The resulting behavioral prediction is the likelihood for a household to behave based on Group 2 variables relative to households that look similar to the household in question according to the Group 1 variables.

For example the likelihood for a household to attrite based on their product behavior may be predicted. After neutralizing the effects or removing any effect of demographics an embodiment of the present invention may be able to identify a household s likelihood to attrite relative to its peers. Thus the technique has the ability to hone in on specific behavior that is driving a potential risk for attrition. For example a household may drop its direct deposit. A standard model may not necessarily identify this behavior and continue to score this affluent household as having a low likelihood to attrite based primarily on the household s affluence demographic. Missing from this analysis is any consideration of factors that indicate a likelihood to attrite. In this example if a household drops direct deposit and ACH and makes several calls to the call center an embodiment of the present invention may recognize these nuance behaviors rather than rely primarily on the household s affluence metric. By removing the demographics first an embodiment of the present invention may be able to consider and identify nuance behaviors that more accurately predict a likelihood to attrite.

Moreover isolation modeling of an embodiment of the present invention provides an understanding of the reasons why a customer is likely to attrite. For example an embodiment of the present invention may identify whether a customer is likely to attrite because of network strength alone and not product relationships or because of relationship alone and not demographic or network strength. As a result providers are able to better tailor offers such as services cash offers etc. and further provide the offers through an optimal channel. Thus marketing campaigns may become more effective in targeting households based on their actual behavior rather than relying primarily on demographics.

An embodiment of the present invention may provide the ability to target and or highlight certain services and products that are particularly useful and relevant to a certain customer. For example a customer with good product relationships may live far away from a banking center. However the customer may be considered to have a very high likelihood to attrite from an isolation technique because the network strength is poor in other words the customer lives far away from a banking center . Based on this information a provider may target this customer with offers that highlight how many ATMs are available around the country benefits of online services mobile services and other services and products that do not rely on a strong banking presence. Thus because a marketer has a better understanding of customers the marketer may better target and tailor offers.

Users may access Isolation Engine via a communication network . User Interface may represent a graphical user interface accessible by users . User interface may receive one or more queries requests from users via the communication devices. User Interface may include an Application Programming Interface API to interact with users through communication devices. In an exemplary embodiment User Interface may present one or more graphical contents or displays to the users associated with the communication devices.

At Application Module a user may identify an application for analysis. For example an application may include attrition as applied to a banking institution. While the detailed description is directed to attrition modeling in a retail banking environment the various embodiments of the present invention may be applied to other scenarios and applications involving behavior prediction based on multiple sets of variables where one set of variables is considered dominant. Thus other applications may be identified and the appropriate data may be analyzed.

At Define Group Module an embodiment of the present invention may allow the user to identify define and or select a variable group and further define which variables belong to those groups. For example the user may start with three groups 1 demographics 2 network strength and 3 product relationships and further define additional groups. According to another embodiment the groups may be predefined by the system.

At Define Variable Module the user may define the variables that make up each identified group. For demographics variables may include age income revenue home value wealth wallet marital status etc. For network strength variables may include whether a household lives in a neighborhood that has a strong banking presence such as a lot of ATMs work or live near a banking center etc. For product relationships variables may include what are the balances how many products a checking account a savings account an investment mortgage etc. how long have you owned those accounts what are the balances have the balances been changing what type of services do you use online services such as online banking do you use mobile banking and other mobile apps do you visit branches do you use a teller do you make a lot of withdrawals deposits and what are the amounts of those. According to another embodiment the groups may be predefined by the system.

An embodiment of the present invention further allows the user to mix and match these groups. Typically a user may isolate for one group of variables before isolating for another group of variables before isolating for yet another group of variables. The order in which this occurs may be changed by the user. The order may be predetermined selected by the user or performed on the fly.

At Models Algorithms Module the user may select or define which algorithm they want to use in building the model. Various model building techniques may be employed. Some of the exemplary techniques may share three stages. A first stage may be directed to building a model to control a first dominating set of variables e.g. demographics . A second stage may be directed to fixing the estimates for the first stage of variables then estimating based on the next stage of variables e.g. network strength . A third stage may be directed to repeating until additional variables are accounted for e.g. relationship or behavior variables .

An exemplary model building technique is referred to as offset. For the second and third stages the score from the previous stage is used as an offset in a logistic regression. For example a neural network may be used in the first stage but not in subsequent stages given existing implementations of neural networks. The outputs may be rolled up to recover a complete attrition model.

In the offset approach the first stage may build for example a model using logistic regression based off of the first group of variables. The second stage may then also use regression built off of the second group of variables in addition to the first group of variables with the coefficients associated with the first group of variables being fixed at the values obtained from the model built in the first stage. In this way the effect of the first stage variables in the second modeling stage is held constant.

In an exemplary application involving two input variables the input xis a first stage variable and xis a second stage variable. Here p is the estimated probability that the event of interest occurs e.g. a household voluntarily ends its checking relationship .

The Offset approach may estimate each coefficient in stages. For example a first stage may use only x 

A second stage may estimate the coefficient for xassuming the coefficient for xis fixed at the value estimated in the first stage 

An embodiment of the present invention allows a user to implement the offset method within a more general response modeling framework. For example one could use the offset approach with an underlying neural network in the following manner 

The response model may be a neural network. Other models such as smoothing spline Gaussian process etc. may be used.

Another exemplary model building technique is referred to as generalized additive modeling. There are three basic steps to this approach. The first step involves executing a logistic regression of attrition against demographic variables. In the second and third stages estimate may be based on residuals that are weighted to reflect the estimated probability. The second step involves executing a weighted least squares regression of stage one pseudo responses on the network variables. The third stage is directed to executing a weighted least squares regression of stage two pseudo responses on the behavior variables. The outputs may be rolled up to recover a complete attrition model.

First a standard neural network or logistic regression may be applied to the first stage variables. For example the following may apply Let F x 0.

Third a weighted least squares regression model f x may be fit using the stage 2 variables as inputs and the residuals above as outputs. The weights may be defined as follows 1 

The predicted values in this second stage based only on the second stage inputs may be rank ordered and used to prioritize households for targeting. Next the following may be defined F x F x f x and the estimated probability may be expressed as

For stage 3 and beyond the above first and second steps may be repeated with the next stage of input variables. If there are m total groups the rank ordered f x values may prioritize the observations in a manner that isolates the final group of variables after controlling for the previous m 1 sets of input variables.

Another method for performing isolation modeling may use a Pearson Residual Method. In the second and third stages the Pearson residual which takes on values on the whole real line is modeled rather than the original target. This technique may implement modeling of a continuous target variable. An alternative that may be used due to preference or computational constraints may be a discretized version. In the second and third stages a target variable of 1 may be used for each record in which the target variable took on a value of 1 in the previous stage but also had a low score in the previous stage. In other words this technique adds a binary variable that has value 1 when a household attrites but had a low attrition predictor from the previous stage and a value of 0 otherwise. The first stage simply fits the first set of variables. Estimation may be performed using neural nets in standard software.

Another approach for isolation modeling is to predict the probability of attrition due to the first group of variables first stage . The error of this stage e.g. the error of the attrition probability estimate relative to the actual attrition status of the households used to build the model is then computed and used as an input into the second stage of the isolation sequence which builds a model based on the second group of variables. One technique for computing error in this regard is to use a Pearson residual which takes on values on the entire real line . A household that attrited but had a low attrition score probability estimate from the first stage has a high Pearson residual. With the residual being used as the target variable for the second stage the model in the second stage is capable of identifying households that are Likely to attrite due to the variables used in the second stage but that were not likely to attrite due to the variables in the first stage.

First a neural network or logistic regression of the target variable may be applied to the stage 1 variables. Second a new target variable may be defined as being equal to the Pearson residual of the original target e.g. if Y is equal to one if the customer attrited and 0 otherwise and the estimated probability of attrition is then the Pearson residual may be defined as follows 

In this example circumflex over p may represent the estimated probability that the target variable takes on a value of for a given observation e.g. the household attrites their checking relationship . The residual may take on any value on the real line. The residual may be positive for all attriters and negative for all non attriters. For example the residual may be greatest for attriters who had low estimated probabilities of attrition in the first stage. According to this approach there is no or minimal loss of residual information. In this approach a continuous response model neural net multiple regression etc. may be applied to the stage 2 variables. For stage 3 and beyond another continuous response model may be applied to the usual residual encountered in a continuous response setting.

According to another application the score of each stage of the isolation sequence may be used to determine an overall prediction of behavior as opposed to just using the score from the last stage. For example an embodiment of the present invention may isolate for one group of variables and then predict the likelihood to behave relative to the second stage having that first stage neutralized. An overall prediction may include the result of the last stage. According to another example scores from the other stages may be used in combination. This may involve grouping them together or combining them mathematically to come up with an overall prediction of behavior that takes into account each group of variables and their contribution to the behavior.

An exemplary usage of such models may involve identifying individuals with high relative probabilities using the final stage variables. Another exemplary usage of such models may include decomposing overall probabilities into the effects of the stages separately. The number of variable groups may be arbitrary and may be used in any order. According to an exemplary application there may be four groups of variables with the effect of the first group removed in the first stage the effect of the second group removed in the second stage etc. The final prediction may be the likelihood to behave based on the fourth group of variables after neutralizing the effect of the first three groups.

At step an application may be identified. For example a user may identify a checking attrition application in a banking environment. Other applications within the banking environment as well as other environments may be identified. At step a plurality of variable groups as well as factors for each variable group may be identified. Further an order sequence for isolation may be identified. At step a first group for isolation may be identified. At step a model may be built to remove the first group from the data. At step modeling may be continued with a next group of variables. The modeling process may be repeated until all the variables are accounted for. At step results of the modeling may be viewed. At step a multi stage approach may be implemented where additional sequences and or iterations may be performed. At step the result of multiple sequences may be combined and viewed as a matrix. At step further analysis may be performed which may involve identifying high scores based on the multiple variables. For example one or more targeted offers may be identified for high scoring segments. While an exemplary sequence is illustrated in the steps may be performed in a different order and combined. Also additional steps may be added and or steps may be removed.

Isolation modeling may result in an increase in the number of affluent households in the top model deciles due to decreasing balances and low activity that may not be captured in a standard model. As a result less affluent households with strong product activity that were not previously scored as having high likelihood to attrite may score lower in the Isolation Model.

An embodiment of the present invention may combine isolation models. For example enhanced targeting flexibility may be obtained by isolating different behavioral drives of attrition. For example illustrates a relationship isolation sequence according to an embodiment of the present invention. At stage 1 as shown by attrition is based only on demographics network variables. A normalized residual may be computed as shown by . At stage 2 as shown by the normalized residual is predicted using only product relationship variables. As a result the likelihood of attrition is based on customer relationship alone. Another example illustrates a demographic network isolation sequence according to an embodiment of the present invention. At stage 1 as shown by attrition is based only on product relationship variables. A normalized residual may be computed as shown by . At stage 2 as shown by the normalized residual is predicted using only demographics network variables. As a result the likelihood of attrition is based on demographics and network alone. Other variations may be implemented.

With a multi stage isolation approach of an embodiment of the present invention predictions from each stage may be combined and or used in conjunction to arrive at an overall prediction of behavior. For example different sequences of variable groups may be implemented. The results of each may be combined to predict the relative effect of each group of variables on a final prediction of behavior. Each sequence may be used to create a matrix that may be used to further enhance targeting and help develop targeting strategies. In the household checking attrition example an embodiment of the present invention may predict the likelihood to attrite using a demographic network isolation model and a behavior isolating model for example. In particular the scores may be overlaid and individuals who score high in both models may represent households that are likely to attrite based on various input factors. The targeting matrix may allow a user to see not only who is likely to attrite but why they are likely to attrite.

An embodiment of the present invention provides an ability to automatically visualize profiles of variables. For an attrition model demographics is generally a heavy driver of the likelihood to attrite. Thus less affluent households are much more likely to attrite than more affluent households. As a result of that there are product relationship variables such as balance that are still heavily correlated with demographics. For instance checking balance or account balance may be heavily correlated with affluence so that a more affluent household with higher account balances may be less likely to attrite. With an isolation modeling approach of an embodiment of the present invention after the effect of demographics is removed with respect to a relative group of peers the impact of balance as a product relationship variable may be diminished. A software tool of an embodiment of the present invention allows the user to visually compare input variable profiles within the model deciles across several isolation models and a standard model. As a user builds such models the user may also view the effects through an interface that allows users to compare results e.g. attrition rate by product balance with those of a standard model when isolation modeling is not applied. The result may indicate that the model trends in a skewed fashion towards households with lower balances as being more likely to attrite. The user may then want to modify and isolate other factors in a certain way and run the model until the results are more flat. In other words balance no longer matters because the effects of demographics are diminished or removed. Thus an embodiment of the present invention provides the ability to interact with the algorithm view profiles make changes to model on the fly based on the visualization capability.

Another functionality may be directed to creating different isolation sequences where different groups of behaviors may be isolated separately. For example a user may predict the likelihood that a household will attrite based on product relationship alone where other types of variables have been neutralized. In addition the user may build a separate model that predicts the likelihood to attrite based on network strength alone while isolating for the other groups of variables. Through an embodiment of the present invention a user may envision different combinations of various groups of variables where the user can describe a household s propensity to behave based on certain groups of variables and arrive at an overall picture of why the household is behaving in the way they are going to behave. In other words how much does network strength play a role in attrition Are they close to a bank Do they have a lot of ATMs in the area How much does the relationship play a role in their likelihood to attrite Are their balances changing Have they been calling the call center and making inquiries Multiple stages or multiple sequences of these models may be implemented to arrive at an overall targeting scheme or a matrix that allows the user to understand why a customer is going to behave in that way. An embodiment of the present invention is directed to a tool that provides the ability to implement multiple sequences and also visualize the result relative to each of these sequences.

An embodiment of the present invention may be directed to treating a customer with a marketing offer or a marketing program in different ways based on the different ways that the customer is likely to behave. For example in a retention program it may be determined that a particular household is likely to attrite based on their network strength e.g. the customer lives very far away from a bank . For this customer the provider may treat them with a different offer or a different service message than another customer who lives near many banking centers but nevertheless has a high likelihood to attrite based on their product relationships. This customer may have balances that are changing constantly and perhaps they are an unhappy customer because they received some fees penalties. An embodiment of the present invention enables a provider to understand reasons why a customer is going to behave the way they are being predicted to behave and then how the provider can tailor the message and or treatment to that prediction. For example the provider may give some offers that have certain types of messaging that highlights certain benefits of the network. Thus the actual treatment from a marketing standpoint may be different and more tailored and thereby more effective.

An embodiment of the present invention is directed to identifying people who are acting in a certain way. With respect to attrition this may involve identifying individuals who are acting like someone who is going to leave. For example in an exemplary application of household checking attrition in retail banking if Group 1 variables include demographic attributes and Group 2 variables include attributes of product relationship the final Isolation Model prediction may include the likelihood to attrite based on product relationship relative to other households that have similar demographics. As a result an embodiment of the present invention effectively removes an influence of demographics as the sole predictors of attrition. This enables a provider to target individuals in different ways.

An embodiment of the present invention may be applied to predict a next product for a customer. For customers who currently have checking accounts but do not have savings account an embodiment of the present invention may identify those customers who are behaving like someone who is willing to open a savings account. Other possible next products may include credit card overdraft coverage investments CDs basically any new product the customer does not currently have but appear to be behaving like they would want to purchase.

An embodiment of the present invention may be used to recognize similar trends for products and use that information to identify customers who are likely to purchase those next products at a demographic level. This feature may apply more broadly to other retailers or other providers who might want to sell other products outside their area as well. In addition this feature could also be applied on a higher level in a situation where a parent company has different affiliates selling varying products and or services among them.

Traditional models that attempt to predict whether a household is likely to respond to offers based on increasing balances typically trend towards more affluent households because these affluent households are the ones that actually have the balances that can meet the offer. Such offers may include offering 100 if the customer brings 25 000 in new savings balance. Thus because of a customer would need to have 25 000 in balance such offers will trend heavily and be dominated by demographic type of variables such as affluent households who are more likely to respond.

An embodiment of the present invention may be directed to identifying one or more optimal channels for presenting an offer promotion or other information. Multiple channels including mailing offers in person banking center offers electronic mail offers social media offers etc. may be available. For example a provider may want to provide an offer at a banking center when the customer talks to a representative such as a teller a personal banker etc. For certain products and or services the response through an in person meeting such as at a branch location may be very high. These banking center driven offers may be considered more effective and thereby generate the majority of the responses as compared to mailing a paper offer. In such cases the offer may be provided exclusively at a branch office because of its success rate. An embodiment of the present invention may assist in defining which channels to use for certain households. An embodiment of the present invention may assist a provider in finding those households that it would spend additional money to also mail the offer to because they might not be close to a branch etc. For example some customers may live far from a banking center and thus usually do not have many in person interactions. For those customers an embodiment of the present invention may determine that sending mail is an optimal channel. Traditional modeling may determine that all affluent customers would receive in person offers based primarily on demographics regardless of consideration of network strength in particular proximity to a banking center. Thus an embodiment of the present invention may identify more affluent households and determine that for a particular household that does not live near a banking center a mail offer may be more appropriate and effective. An embodiment of the present invention may equalize customers on the demographic side and identify the more likely households to respond through the mailing piece. This technique may isolate a network strength characteristics.

The above discussion primarily described attrition as it applies to a banking institution. The various embodiments of behavior isolating prediction modeling may be applied to other applications.

For example an embodiment of the present invention may be applied to social issues to determine at risk populations. Certain demographic groups may be considered at risk for certain outcomes e.g. dropping out of school teen pregnancy etc. . Isolation models in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention may identify individuals who are acting at risk and not merely fitting a certain demographic profile.

An embodiment of the present invention may be applied to identify product cross selling opportunities such as insurance companies cross selling homeowners insurance to auto insurance customers. According to traditional models older customers might be more likely to respond to such offers as they are more likely to own homes. A provider may use an embodiment of the present invention to isolate an age demographic in the first stage if the company has a strategic initiative to attract younger homeowners.

An embodiment of the present invention may be applied to identify purchase propensities as applied to different industries. In direct marketing campaigns for checking accounts response rates are biased towards less affluent younger individuals. A provider may predict the likelihood of response based on bank s network strength in a customer s area after controlling for demographics.

An embodiment of the present invention may be applied to predict voting patterns. Certain demographic or social groups are more likely to vote for certain parties e.g. union members are more likely to vote for Democrats and active military are more likely to vote Republican. For example campaign strategists may use an isolation model of an embodiment of the present invention to identify voters within these populations that are likely to vote in a manner that is contradictory to their social group e.g. union members that have a higher than average likelihood to vote for a Republican candidate.

An embodiment of the present invention may be applied to customer satisfaction. A provider may wish to predict the likelihood that a household is satisfied based on their product relationship behavior while controlling for demographic biases e.g. certain customers based on demographics are more likely to claim they are highly satisfied in customer satisfaction survey .

According to an embodiment of the invention the systems and processes described in this invention may be implemented on any general or special purpose computational device either as a standalone application or applications or even across several general or special purpose computational devices connected over a network and as a group operating in a client server mode. According to another embodiment of the invention a computer usable and writeable medium having a plurality of computer readable program code stored therein may be provided for practicing the process of the present invention. The process and system of the present invention may be implemented within a variety of operating systems such as a Windows operating system various versions of a Unix based operating system e.g. a Hewlett Packard a Red Hat or a Linux version of a Unix based operating system or various versions of an AS 400 based operating system. For example the computer usable and writeable medium may be comprised of a CD ROM a floppy disk a hard disk or any other computer usable medium. One or more of the components of the system or systems embodying the present invention may comprise computer readable program code in the form of functional instructions stored in the computer usable medium such that when the computer usable medium is installed on the system or systems those components cause the system to perform the functions described. The computer readable program code for the present invention may also be bundled with other computer readable program software. Also only some of the components may be provided in computer readable code.

Additionally various entities and combinations of entities may employ a computer to implement the components performing the above described functions. According to an embodiment of the invention the computer may be a standard computer comprising an input device an output device a processor device and a data storage device. According to other embodiments of the invention various components may be computers in different departments within the same corporation or entity. Other computer configurations may also be used. According to another embodiment of the invention various components may be separate entities such as corporations or limited liability companies. Other embodiments in compliance with applicable laws and regulations may also be used.

The description above describes communication devices an application system a communication network having network elements storage devices various networks and other elements for coupling user via the communication network some of which are explicitly depicted others of which are not. As used herein the term module may be understood to refer to computer executable software firmware hardware or various combinations thereof. It is noted that the modules are exemplary. The modules may be combined integrated separated or duplicated to support various applications. Also a function described herein as being performed at a particular module may be performed at one or more other modules and by one or more other devices instead of or in addition to the function performed at the particular module. Further the modules may be implemented across multiple devices or other components local or remote to one another. Additionally the modules may be moved from one device and added to another device or may be included in both devices.

It is further noted that the software described herein may be tangibly embodied in one or more physical media such as but not limited to a compact disc CD a digital versatile disc DVD a floppy disk a hard drive read only memory ROM random access memory RAM as well as other physical media capable of storing software or combinations thereof. Moreover the figures illustrate various components e.g. servers computers etc. separately. The functions described as being performed at various components may be performed at other components and the various components may be combined or separated. Other modifications also may be made.

Other embodiments uses and advantages of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. The specification and examples should be considered exemplary only. The intended scope of the invention is only limited by the claims appended hereto.

