---

title: Mobile communications system, infrastructure equipment, base station and method
abstract: A mobile communications system including one or more mobile communications devices and a mobile communications network, the mobile communications network including a radio network part and a core network part and being configured to communicate data packets to and/or from mobile communications devices. Data packets can be communicated to or received from the mobile communications devices using either a broadband packet network or a dedicated messaging network. The dedicated messaging network is arranged to communicate short data grams more efficiently than larger data communications. Therefore by selecting either the dedicated messaging network or the broadband network as a function of content of the data packet a more efficient use of available communications resources and hardware resources is realized.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09549340&OS=09549340&RS=09549340
owner: SCA IPLA HOLDINGS INC
number: 09549340
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120511
---
The present application claims priority to British Patent Application 1109004.0 filed in the UK IPO on May 27 2011 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to mobile communications systems for communicating data packets to and or from mobile communications devices infrastructure equipment base stations mobile communications devices and methods for communicating data packets.

Mobile communication systems have evolved over the past ten years or so from the GSM System Global System for Mobiles to the 3G system and now include packet data communications as well as circuit switched communications. The third generation partnership project 3GPP has now began to develop a fourth generation mobile communication system referred to as Long Term Evolution LTE in which a core network part has been evolved to form a more simplified architecture based on a merging of components of earlier mobile communications network architectures and a radio access interface which is based on Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM on the downlink and Single Carrier Frequency Division Multiple Access SC FDMA on the uplink. The core network components are arranged to communicate data packets in accordance with an enhanced packet communications system.

Third and fourth generation mobile telecommunication systems such as those based on the 3GPP defined UMTS and Long Term Evolution LTE architecture are able to support more sophisticated services than simple voice and messaging services offered by previous generations of mobile telecommunication systems.

For example with the improved radio interface and enhanced data rates provided by LTE systems a user is able to enjoy high data rate applications such as mobile video streaming and mobile video conferencing that would previously only have been available via a fixed line data connection. Third and fourth generation mobile communication networks therefore typically employ advanced data modulation techniques on the radio interface which can require more complex and expensive radio transceivers to implement. However not all communications are of a nature which requires the full bandwidth capability of for example the LTE system. Accordingly it is may be more appropriate to adopt a technique which communicates some types of data as more efficiently than using the full bandwidth capability of a mobile communications system.

According to the present invention there is provided a mobile communications system comprising one or more mobile communications devices and a mobile communications network for communicating data packets to and or from mobile communications devices. The mobile communications network includes a radio network part and a core network part. The radio network part includes one or more base stations for communicating the data packets to or receiving the data packets from the mobile communications devices via a radio access interface and the core network part comprises one or more infrastructure components for communicating the data packets to or receiving the data packets from the base stations of the radio network part. The core network part and the radio network part are configured to provide a broadband packet network which is adapted to communicate the data packets to or receive from the mobile communications devices in accordance with a relatively high bandwidth and to provide contemporaneously a dedicated messaging network which is adapted to communicate the data packets to or receive from the mobile communications devices in accordance with a relatively low bandwidth and one or more of the mobile communications device the base station or the infrastructure equipment is configured to determine whether to communicate each of the data packets via either the broadband packet network or the dedicated messaging network in accordance with predetermined criteria. The data packets are therefore communicated to or received from the mobile communications devices using either the broadband packet network or a dedicated messaging network. In one example the broadband packet network is provided from a full bandwidth capability of the mobile communications network and the dedicated messaging network may be provided by a reduced bandwidth of the mobile communications network.

In one example one or both of the mobile communications device and the base station is configured to parse the data packets for communication to determine whether the data packet contains signalling data or user data in accordance with the predetermined criteria and if the data packet contains signalling data communicating the data packet using the dedicated messaging network and if the data packet contain user data communicating the data packet via the broadband network. The predetermined criteria may include one or more of a protocol type an application type a domain name a socket or port number of the data packets.

The dedicated messaging network is arranged to communicate short data grams more efficiently than larger data communications. The dedicated messaging network is better arranged to communicate short data grams than the broadband packet network. Therefore by selecting either the dedicated messaging network or the broadband network as a function of the content of the data packet a more efficient use of available communications resource infrastructure equipment and mobile communications devices is provided. For example if the data packets are communicating signalling data then since a quantity and frequency of occurrence of this data is relatively low the signalling data may be communicated more efficiently via a dedicated messaging network.

Mobile communications devices such as smart phones and portable computers transmit many application level signalling messages such as data request keep alive and polling type messages on a mobile communications network. These signalling type messages are related to certain machine like applications that are running on the smart phone or portable computer. The inventors have recognised that these messages and data grams may be more efficiently communicated by a dedicated messaging network DMN . The DMN may be characterized as being adapted to communicate relatively small messages more efficiently compared with a conventional broadband wireless communications network. For example the DMN may support more Physical Downlink Control Channels PDCCH per sub frame for example by possibly reducing the size of the conventional PDCCH. In another example the DMN may be adapted to support a greater amount of Random Access Channel RACH resource which may be useful for mobile devices that are not permanently connected to the DMN but communicate in a connectionless manner. In one example the DMN may be a virtual carrier that sits within the bandwidth of a host carrier or the broadband packet network. Thus the broadband packet network may be formed from the mobile communications network which may be an LTE network using for example substantially the full bandwidth capability of the LTE network whereas the DMN may be formed from a reduced bandwidth of the LTE network which is less than the total bandwidth available.

The broadband packet network is therefore appropriate for communicating larger amounts of data at high speed. The broadband packet network could be a High Speed Packet Access communications network for example as supported by a UMTS or an LTE network. In contrast to the DMN the broadband packet network may have a restricted amount of available signalling resource in comparison to the amount of user data resource. As such broadband packet networks may be overloaded by the application signalling messages from smart phone applications and as a result it is possible that all of a network resource which has been assigned to convey control information of the broadband packet network is used before the user data portion is completely assigned.

In one example separate applications in the mobile communications device are connected to either the DMN or the broadband packet network as a function of a type of the application program.

In one example embodiment one of the base station or the infrastructure equipment is configured to monitor an amount of demand for signalling type data and to establish the dedicated messaging network consequent upon the demand for signalling type data exceeding a predetermined amount. As such the data packets may be communicated via the broadband packet network only until a demand for signalling type packets has reached a predetermined level. In another example the mobile communications devices may provide an indication that they are communicating signalling type messages from one or more application programs and the mobile communications network may establish the dedicated messaging network once a count of the indications has reached a predetermined threshold. This is because when there are few signalling type applications in the network it may be inefficient to set up a DMN in order to specifically support these mobile communications devices. This inefficiency could arise because the fixed resource that is set aside for the DMN may be under utilised by the signalling type messages. When there is a greater amount of signalling type traffic the advantages of having a DMN which is configured to support signalling type traffic may outweigh the disadvantages associated with the inflexibility of partitioning the resource between a DMN and a broadband packet network. In this case it may be better to support these applications on the DMN.

The term signalling may refer to application level signalling or network signalling. Examples of application level signalling include polling messages from email applications presence messages from instant messaging applications short updates related to games traffic etc. Examples of network signalling include radio resource connection RRC signalling and Non Access Stratum NAS signalling. Some traffic such as short message service SMS transmissions have a high proportion of network signalling relative to user data and may hence be considered to be signalling type traffic.

Further aspects and features of the present invention are defined in the appended claims and include an infra structure element a base station a mobile communications device and methods.

Embodiments of the present invention will now be described with reference to an implementation which uses a mobile communications network operating in accordance with the 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE standard. provides an example architecture of an LTE network. As shown in and as with a conventional mobile communications network mobile communications devices also called UEs or terminals are arranged to communicate data to and from base stations which are referred to in LTE as enhanced NodeBs eNodeB for transmitting and receiving data via the wireless or radio access interface with the communications devices .

The base stations or eNodeB s are connected to a serving gateway S GW which is arranged to perform routing and management of mobile communications services to the communications devices as they roam throughout the mobile communications network. In order to maintain mobility management and connectivity a mobility management entity MME manages the enhanced packet service EPS connections with the communications devices using subscriber information stored in a home subscriber server HSS . Other core network components include the policy charging and resource function PCRF a PDN Packet Data Network gateway P GW which connects to an internet network and finally to an external server . More information may be gathered for the LTE architecture from the book entitled Holma H. and Toskala A. page 25 ff.

In the following description LTE SAE terminology and names are used. However embodiments of the present technique can be applied to other mobile communications systems such as UMTS and GERAN with the GSM GPRS core network.

In accordance with the present technique the mobile communications network shown in is arranged to provide a broadband packet network and a dedicated messaging network which exists alongside and contemporaneously with the broadband packet network. Thus in accordance with the present technique the broadband packet network may utilise the entire bandwidth of the radio access interface provided by the radio network part and the protocols of the core network part but in parallel a dedicated messaging network may be established. The dedicated messaging network may use only a part of the bandwidth of the radio network part and some reduced functionality or adapted treatment by the core network part . This is because the dedicated messaging network is optimised for the communication of small amounts of data which are typical of signalling type applications. As explained above the present technique utilises a dedicated messaging network for communicating signalling type data which is generated by for example application programs. The dedicated messaging network is therefore optimised for the communication of short messages such as those associated with signalling data.

In one example the dedicated messaging network DMN may be created from a virtual carrier that is a carrier which exists within the complete bandwidth provided by the radio network part of a mobile communications network. Thus in one example the dedicated messaging network may be formed using the techniques disclosed in our co pending UK patent applications numbers 1101970.0 1101981.7 1101966.8 1101983.3 1101853.8 1101982.5 1101980.9 and 1101972.6 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. A brief summary of this example of a dedicated messaging network is provided below. However a DMN can characterized as being adapted to communicating small messages or data grams which can make more efficient use of hardware and communications resources compared with the broadband packet network and can support a larger amount of control signalling. For example the DMN may support more PDCCHs per sub frame possibly by a reduction in the size of the PDCCH . The DMN may be configured to support a greater amount of RACH resource which may be useful for machines that are not permanently connected to the DMN but communicate in a connectionless manner . The broadband packet network is characterized as being optimized for the transmission of large messages at high speed. The broadband packet network could be an HSPA or preferably an LTE network. These networks may have a restricted amount of available signalling resource in comparison to the amount of user data resource hence these networks may be overloaded by the application signalling messages from smart phone applications it is possible that substantially all of the control portion of the broadband packet network is used before the user data portion is completely assigned .

In accordance with the present technique therefore the dedicated messaging network may be arranged to communicate data request keep alive and polling type messages as shown in . In contrast the broadband packet network may be used to communicate larger messages such as complete emails Jpegs video clips etc. The generation of different types of packet data may be by different applications and so in one example the dedicated messaging network and the broadband packet network may serve different applications where one of the applications communicates with small signalling type messages that are routed through the dedicated messaging network for example a stock update application and another application communicates with larger packet sizes through the broadband network for example a video download application .

As explained above smart phones and portable computers for example transmit many application level signalling messages including data request keep alive and polling type messages on a mobile communications network. These signalling type messages are related to certain machine like applications that are running on the mobile communications device. Example machine like applications are 

In one example application a smart phone may be executing different applications programs which may require the communication of different types of data including user data which may require broadband communication for example video downloads etc. and signalling type data which may be spontaneous and sporadic in its requirement and require a small bandwidth. Thus in accordance with the present technique as shown in a mobile communications device which may be a smart phone may communicate signalling type data via the dedicated messaging network and user data via the broadband packet network of the radio network part . The data packets are communicated to different application servers although in other examples they may in fact be the same server the packets being directed to the same destination but being of different types. To achieve the discrimination for communicating data packets via either the dedicated messaging network or the broadband packet network the smart phone is provided with a discrimination function which is shown in .

In the mobile communications device which is shown in is shown in more detail. As with a conventional mobile communications device the mobile communications device includes a transmitter and receiver unit for communicating via a wireless access interface provided by the radio network part of the mobile communications part of the network. An antenna is used to both transmit and receive signals via the radio access interface. A communications processor controls the communication of data via the transmitter and receiver unit . The communications processor establishes different radio access bearers in accordance with the type of communication which is required. The different radio access bearers according to the present technique are via the dedicated messaging network and the broadband packet network respectively. Packets for communication via the dedicated messaging network and the broadband packet network are respectively identified by a discrimination function in combination with where appropriate a data store .

A processor operates on the mobile communications device to execute applications programs which provides functions to the user. The application programs may be of different sorts and have different requirements. It is according to the different requirements that packets are communicated via the different networks. Thus whilst the processor is executing the application programs which then generate data to be communicated for example in accordance with an internet protocol the discrimination function then analyses the data packets and determines whether the data packets are better communicated via the dedicated messaging network or the broadband network. Accordingly an interface between the processor and the discrimination function provides the protocol data packets to be communicated by the communications processor to the discrimination function .

In some examples an Application Programming Interface API operating on the processor may provide additional information indicating that the data packet is for signalling as explained below. Having received the data packets and any additional information which provides a discrimination function with an indication that the data packet is for signalling the discrimination function may direct the data packets via one of the interfaces to the communications processor so that the communications processor is provided with an indication that the data packet is to be communicated via the dedicated messaging network instead of the broadband packet network. Conversely the discrimination function may also be provided with an indication by the API that a data packet is for communication via the broadband packet network and accordingly the communications processor receives on the interface from the discrimination function a direction that the data packet is to be communicated via the broadband packet network.

Various other techniques are proposed for discriminating between data packets which are to be communicated via the dedicated messaging network and data packets which are to be communicated by the broadband packet network. These techniques will be explained in the following paragraphs. A more detailed example of the discrimination function is shown in . In the discrimination function is shown to include an analysis processor which receives the data packets from the interface from the processor . The analysis processor parses the data packets in accordance with information extracted from the packets and compares this information with predetermined information stored in the data store . For example as explained below the information could include domain name application type port socket number or protocol type. Based on the information the analysis processor then routes the data packet to a switch which routes the data packets via either a first output for communication via the dedicated messaging network or a second output for communication via the broadband packet network.

In another example the analysis processor receives the data packets from a particular application as identified by either a destination or a source address and analyses the nature of the communication requirements of the packets. For example the packets for a given destination from a given source are analysed within a predetermined period of time and a number of packets for communication determined. If a small number of data packets are required to be communicated to a particular source from a particular destination the analysis processor may conclude that the data packets are to be communicated via the dedicated messaging network. Accordingly the analysis processor routes the data packets to the first output . In contrast if the number of data packets is relatively large within a predetermined period of time then routing via the broadband packet network is more appropriate and so the analysis processor uses the switch to route the data packets via the second output .

As explained above the discrimination function is configured to discriminate between data packets from applications as either being of signalling type or being of broadband type. The following list describes some example methods by which this discrimination could be made 

The decision as to whether the application is a signalling type or a broadband type application is advantageously made at the mobile communications device. The mobile communications device is a self contained device having access to both the application and the communications system. In contrast the network e.g. E UTRAN forms the communications system and this communications system is more loosely connected to the application where the application may for instance be located on an application server. If the decision point were made in the network there may need to be signalling between the application server e.g. based in the internet and the communications system this signalling may be cumbersome to implement.

When the decision between signalling type and broadband type communications is made in the mobile communications device the mobile communications device may either explicitly send an indication of signalling type broadband type to the network or may simply select request a radio bearer with the appropriate QoS parameters. In either case the communications system can determine whether the mobile communications device is going to generate signalling type or broadband type traffic and set up release DMN resources as appropriate based either on reception of specific signalling type broadband type indications or based on the type of radio bearer .

In a further example the discrimination function may be performed within another infrastructure equipment of the mobile communications network such as for example in the eNodeB. provides an example illustration of the further example of the present technique. In the eNodeB is shown to comprise a transmitter receiver unit a scheduler a communication processor as well as a discrimination function and a communications interface . A communications interface forms an interface to the serving gateway . Thus the communications interface receives data packets from the serving gateway and sends data packets to the serving gateway in accordance with the conventional operation of an LTE network. As for the example of the mobile communications device the eNodeB operates with a transceiver unit and furthermore includes a scheduler a and a communications processor which operate with the transceiver unit in a conventional way to form a radio access interface. However as explained above the eNodeB is arranged to provide in parallel a dedicated messaging network and a broadband packet network. Correspondingly therefore the discrimination function is arranged to operate with a data store to communicate data packets to mobile communications devices using either the broadband packet network or the dedicated messaging network in accordance with the predetermined criteria for example those indicated above. Therefore correspondingly the data store includes a store of a correspondence between for example a domain name a socket or port number protocol type or application type and whether data packets that are communicated in accordance with those criteria are signalling data packets or user data packets. Therefore in accordance with the present technique the discrimination function routes the data packets to the communications processor via either a first output or a second output for communicating respectively the data packets via the dedicated messaging network and the broadband packet network.

When there are few signalling type applications in the network it may be inefficient to set up a dedicated messaging network in order to specifically support these mobile communications devices. This inefficiency could arise because the fixed resource that is set aside for the dedicated messaging network may be under utilised by the signalling type messages. When there is a greater amount of signalling type traffic the advantages of having a DMN that is well suited to the support of this signalling type traffic may outweigh the disadvantages associated with the inflexibility of partitioning the resource between a DMN and a BPN. In this case it may be better to support these applications on the DMN.

According to some examples of the present technique the mobile communications network may decide whether to instantiate a DMN e.g. a virtual carrier within a host carrier based on a count of the number of signalling type applications that are active in the cell. The network can determine the number of signalling type applications either based on knowledge of traffic at the network or based on a count that is signalled from terminals to the network.

When the network determines the number of signalling type applications there are various possibilities for counting the number of such applications 

When the terminal determines the number of signalling type applications it may make this determination based on 

The mobile device may then indicate the type of traffic to the network via network signalling either RRC signalling or NAS signalling . The traffic type may be signalled as part of the RRC connection setup procedure as explained below with reference to and or may be updated when new applications become active as illustrated below with reference to where one of the early transmissions from an application may include information relating to the traffic type possibly in a separate part of the message .

In an application for providing a communications service to a user within a mobile communications device communicates a radio resource connection RRC set up complete message which includes signalling a data bearer type. Correspondingly the eNodeB counts the number of signalling type applications in the network. The count of signalling type application in a network is determined within the discrimination function and compared with a threshold stored in a data store . If the number of counts of the signalling type applications exceeds a certain predetermined threshold then at this point the eNodeB is provided with an indication that there is sufficient traffic for it to be worthwhile to establish the dedicated messaging network. Accordingly the dedicated messages network is established.

A further illustration of the initiation of a dedicated messaging network is shown in . In an alternative arrangement is illustrated for establishing the dedicated messaging network. In a mobile communications device is currently communicating all types of data using the broadband packet network to the eNodeB . Thus the broadband packet network BPN communicates photos file downloads as well as other types of communications. At a further point in time the broadband packet network is also communicating messages from applications which include an indication of the traffic type for example signalling or data. The eNodeB then at a process point counts the number of signalling type applications in the network. If the number of signalling type applications in the network exceeds a predetermined number then the discrimination function initiates the dedicated messaging network at a process point . The eNodeB then signals to the mobile communications devices that signalling type traffic should be sent on the dedicated messaging network via a message .

The network may count the number of signalling type applications in the network which may be different to the number of mobile communications devices which are active in the network for example one mobile communications device may contain a plurality of active signalling type applications e.g. stock updates instant messaging social networking etc. applications and compare this number of applications to a threshold. If the number of signalling type applications is greater than a threshold the network may then instantiate a DMN.

Note that if there are low capability MTC type mobile devices in the network the eNodeB may have already initiated a DMN. The network algorithm may then be applied to determine whether 

An application that generates short message service SMS type messages may be identified as an application that should be advantageously mapped to a dedicated messaging network. The data bearing messages of such an application are short. The network signalling associated with SMS message transfers may also be advantageously supported on the DMN.

An example diagram illustrating the operation of the discrimination function within the eNodeB is provided in . The operation of the discrimination function as represented via the flow diagram in is summarised as follows 

S A mobile communications device communicates with the network sending data packets from applications programs or other sources which are executing on the mobile communications device.

S The discrimination function within the network entity determines whether the device communicating the data packets is a low capability MTC device that is a machine type communications device. Alternatively the data packets may be analysed to determine whether they contain signalling type data as explained above in order to classify applications as either being of signalling type or data bearing type. If the device communicating the data packet is an MTC device or the data packet was communicated by a signalling type application then processing proceeds to step S. Otherwise processing proceeds to step S.

S If the data packet was communicated via an MTC mobile communications device or the data packet was communicated by a signalling type application then the respective count for mobile communications devices communicating signalling or the count of applications of signalling type is incremented so that either one or both of these counts increases.

S The number of the counted mobile communications device that are communicating signalling data or the number data signalling packets being communicated is then compared to a threshold. The threshold may be stored in an associated data store which the discrimination function has access to.

S If the number of mobile communications devices communicating signalling data exceeds the threshold then processing proceeds to step S. Alternatively if the number of data packets which are of a signalling type exceeds the corresponding threshold then processing also proceeds to step S. Otherwise processing proceeds to step S and all of the communication of data packets is supported by a broadband packet network.

S If the threshold is exceeded then the dedicated messaging network is established by the network using for example using a virtual carrier. Processing then ends at S.

S If the threshold is not exceeded then all communications of data packets from all mobile communications devices is supported with a broadband packet network or the mobile communications network operating conventionally.

In an alternative embodiment of the invention a DMN would be set up either when at least one low capability MTC device exists in the network or when the number of signalling type applications exceeds a threshold. In the embodiment illustrated in when the number of low complexity MTC devices does not exceed a threshold those devices may either wait until a DMN is established or may attempt to select a different carrier that does support a DMN.

Examples of dedicated messaging network include those created using a virtual carrier which uses some frequency resource within a host carrier in which a DMN can be deployed. A DMN which is dedicated to the support of messaging traffic can be operated either within a virtual carrier or using a standalone carrier. The structure of the DMN can be similar whether it operates as part of a virtual carrier or on a standalone carrier. shows the operation of a DMN within a virtual carrier where the Physical Broadcast Channel PBCH in the host carrier points to the virtual carrier whereas shows the operation of a DMN within a standalone carrier which is almost identical to the virtual carrier case except that a Physical Broadcast Channel PBCH points to the standalone carrier and there is no surrounding host carrier.

A DMN addresses shortcomings of current releases of LTE in respect of the communication of signalling type messages. The dedicated messaging network may be based on LTE technology and address the following aspects 

According to the embodiments described above the mobile communications device can connect to two networks at the same time where the DMN is typically a virtual carrier within a host BPN . Although in current networks different traffic types can be sent down different radio bearers e.g. with different qualities of service each device only has a single connection to the network it is not connected with two different types of network . In a current network the mobile device can have two connections to the same network. For example the device can be connected to the network via a dedicated channel e.g. a DCH for the support of voice traffic and via a shared channel e.g. an HSPA channel for the support of packet switched services . However these two connections are via the same underlying communications technology WCDMA is the underlying communications technology in the DCH HSPA case . In contrast embodiments of the present technique have two connections each via a different network even though one of the networks may be a virtual carrier within the spectrum of another carrier . The DMN is considered to be a different network to the BPN because 

Various modifications may be made to the embodiments of the invention hereinbefore described with reference to the drawings without departing from the scope of the present invention as expressed in the appended claims. Other examples are envisaged within the scope of the appended claims such as where the host mobile communications network operates in accordance with a standard other than LTE. As will be appreciated a location of a device which is responsible for establishing the dedicated messaging network or the functions which determine whether each data packet should be communicated may be located at any convenient point within the network.

