---

title: System for programming medical pumps with reduced-error
abstract: Medical pumps may obtain programming data from a database through the use of a remote query process which allows the individual pump to flexibly request data from existing hospital databases, to identify the necessary information in those databases, and to convert that data for use without the need for manual programming or a centralized pump control system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08652093&OS=08652093&RS=08652093
owner: Zyno Medical, LLC.
number: 08652093
owner_city: Natrick
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120618
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 498 855 filed Jun. 20 2011 entitled Infusion Management System and Method and hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to medical pumps for the delivery of medicines to patients under controlled rates and dosages and in particular to a pump allowing pump initiated synchronization with existing medical databases for programming with reduced error.

Medical pumps such as syringe pumps or peristaltic infusion pumps are known for computer controlled delivery of medication or contrast agents henceforth drugs to patients over a period of time. Typically the drug is delivered in a syringe for a syringe pump or a flexible bag for peristaltic infusion pump or ambulatory pump that may be connected to an IV line attached to a needle for insertion into the patient. When a nurse or other health care professional ministering to the patient receives the drug the healthcare professional reviews the drug description for correctness and enters the desired dose and rate into the pump. Other pump parameters such as alarm limits and the like may also be programmed at this time. The syringe or IV line must then be mechanically connected to the pump mechanism and the mechanism activated to begin pumping.

The process of programming pumps can be time consuming and prone to error. In a large facility there may be multiple different pump designs and models and a given healthcare professional ministering to a patient may need to work with many different types of pumps each having their own programming in data entry systems.

It is generally known to provide for medical pumps having wireless data communication capabilities. Such pumps present the possibility of having programming performed remotely for example by data transmitted from a central pump control system managed by a pharmacist or the like.

There are a number of obstacles to practical implementation of such a system including the need for substantial capital investment in a central pump control system the time and effort necessary to configure a complex network of medical pumps that may move between patients on a regular basis and problems of compatibility among pumps of many different types from different manufacturers.

The present invention provides a system and method for transferring programming data from a central database to disparate medical pumps without the need for extensive modifications of the hospital information infrastructure. Rather than establishing a central pump control system for pushing data to the pumps individual pumps or proxy may pull the data from a general purpose database by initiating a database query selecting among query results and mapping the selected results to pump programming commands. In this way a specialized data server for medical pumps is not required and data synchronizing pumps may be cost effectively integrated into the system.

Specifically the present invention provides a method of programming remote medical pumps that works by connecting a wireless device to a network communicating with a database providing information identifying patients to pump programming data related to treatment of the patient and communicating a search query from the wireless device over the network to the database to identify at least one given patient. Programming data related to the given patient is selected from the search results to include pump programming data linked to patients. The pump programming data is translated into data for controlling a medical pump and the medical pump is operated according to the translated data.

It is thus an object of at least one embodiment of the invention to provide a system in which individual medical pumps initiate a pull of necessary data from pre existing databases thus avoiding the extensive infrastructure changes necessary to implement a pushing of the data to the pumps for example requiring the generation and maintenance of data tables linking pumps to patients and or presenting compatibility issues with existing pumps.

The wireless device may be the medical pump and the medical pump may include a user interface providing data output to a user and receiving data input from the user for the purpose of querying the database and selecting the desired data.

It is thus a feature of at least one embodiment of the invention to provide the benefits of the present invention with as little as a single medical pump enabled to make the necessary queries. By incorporating the browsing and querying structure into the pump itself rapid adoption of the improvement of the present invention may be realized.

It is thus a feature of at least one embodiment of the invention to eliminate transcription errors in critical programmed pump values.

The method may display received patient identifying information and display at least one of patient identifying information and pump programming data on the medical pump.

It is thus a feature of at least one embodiment of the invention to permit verification of downloaded data by a skilled professional operating a remote medical pump.

A confirmation input from a user of the medical pump may be required after display of patient identifying information and or pump programming data before operation of the pump.

It is thus a feature of at least one embodiment of the invention to require confirmation of correct remote loading of data at a remote pump.

The invention may wirelessly transmit medical pump operating data indicating operation of the medical pump

It is thus a feature of at least one embodiment of the invention to permit remote monitoring of pump condition using the same network channels established for the initial downloading of data.

In an alternative embodiment the wireless device may be a computing device other than the medical pump further including a user interface providing data output to a user and receiving data input from the user and any of the steps of querying selecting results of the query and translating the received data that may be conducted through the user interface by a user of the medical pump with the data ultimately transferred to the medical pump.

It is thus a feature of at least one embodiment of the invention to permit the present system to be implemented for medical pumps having limited processing capabilities through the use of a proxy device.

The wireless device may be selected from the group consisting of a desktop computer system a portable computer system and a cell phone.

It is thus a feature of at least one embodiment of the invention to allow great flexibility in implementing a proxy device including for example using mobile devices as the proxy device allowing a nurse or other health care professional the ability to move freely between pumps and patients.

Electronically transferring the received medical pump programming data to the medical pump may occur wirelessly through an agent device wirelessly communicating with the medical pump and the medical pump may be programmed with an address of the agent device for wirelessly communicating therewith.

It is thus a feature of at least one embodiment of the invention to permit the use of a proxy device without the need for fundamental changes in the existing institution information infrastructure. The imaging device allows the proxy device and pumps to be preprogrammed with known fixed addresses for example.

It should be understood that the invention is not limited in its application to the details of construction and arrangements of the components set forth herein. The invention is capable of other embodiments and of being practiced or carried out in various ways. Variations and modifications of the foregoing are within the scope of the present invention. It also being understood that the invention disclosed and defined herein extends to all alternative combinations of two or more of the individual features mentioned or evident from the text and or drawings. All of these different combinations constitute various alternative aspects of the present invention. The embodiments described herein explain the best modes known for practicing the invention and will enable others skilled in the art to utilize the invention.

Referring now to a medical infusion pump system of the present invention may provide a file server system one or more medical infusion pumps and one or more standard proxy devices such as a desktop computer cell phone PDA tablet or the like.

The file server system may be part of a standard hospital electronic medical record system and may include a memory system for example providing a disk array or the like. The memory system may provide part of an electronic medical database holding medical information and patient records and may include a drug dispensary database table providing a listing of drugs and medical pump parameters for the delivery of those drugs to patients as linked to particular patient names for identification.

It will be understood that the database provides both file structures on physical non transient medium and also a program or database engine for accessing that data according to query instructions. In this regard the database may provide for a standard database interface for example using standard query language or a standardized API and may further provide an interface accessible over a network. In one embodiment the network interface may allow communication with the standard database interface using standard network interface conventions for example as may be implemented under HTML XML or other well known standards. The database engine and portions of the database may be implemented by an electronic computer being part of the file server system executing a stored program contained therein.

The file system may communicate with a wireless network circuit or the like that may implement a portion of a network for example providing standard wireless communication protocols such as IEEE 802.11 a b g n . The wireless network card may in turn communicate with corresponding wireless circuitry in each of the medical pumps as well as with a proxy device as will be discussed below. The network may also include physical media such as optical or electrical conductors.

The file server system may connect via a network with standard workstations for use in a hospital or other health care setting. Such workstations as is understood in the art may access the database through a standard browser program to generate search queries and to receive query responses that may be used to extract particular information from the database . Such file server systems are normally pre existing in a hospital environment as is necessary for the efficient management of patient information and hospital records independent of the present invention.

Referring still to each medical pump may provide for example a housing that may be releasably attached to an IV pole the latter that may support one or more bags of IV fluid thereupon. The IV fluid may be a saline solution or any of a number of intravenously administered medicines. An IV tube may pass from the IV bag through a pump section of the housing of the pump to be received by a peristaltic pump element and one or more sensors for example including sensors for pressure of the IV fluid flow rate of the IV fluid air inclusion within the IV fluid proper seating of the IV tube and the like all generally understood in the art. The IV tube may then pass out of the pump section to a needle assembly not shown for intravenous attachment to a patient.

Each of the pump element and sensors may connect to an internal controller and execute a stored program to provide control of the pump element according to the program and according to the readings of the sensors . The controller may also communicate with user interface elements including a display screen and a keypad or the like the latter including being provided by membrane switches a touchscreen or the like. In addition the controller may communicate with a wireless network circuit similar to the wireless network circuit described above for communication over the network .

In an alternative embodiment one or more of the medical pumps may be a syringe pump or an ambulatory pump having similar features to the infusion pump described above for the intravenous introduction of medicines and the like.

Referring now to in a first embodiment the program may provide for a number of program elements including generally a pump control program such as provides for the normal operation and control of the medical pump . The pump control program may communicate with user interface routines allowing the receipt of data from and transmission of data to the user interface formed by display screen and keypad .

The program may further include a network stack for communication with the wireless network circuit for receipt of data therefrom and transmission of data thereto. The network stack may communicate with a query management routine that may access a network table to implement a connection to the database and to manage simple queries of the database to receive pump programming data from the database . The query management routine may also communicate with the user interface routines for receiving instructions therefrom related to queries or selection among query results and for displaying the results of queries and the like as will be described. In addition the query management routine may communicate with a translation routine providing for translation of received programming data into a form compatible with the operation of the pump control program for programming the same.

Referring now also to the query management routine operating with the network stack allows a user to navigate over the network shown in to access the database as indicated by process block of . In one embodiment the navigation may be through the use of a browser that allows exploration of the network hierarchy by a user in an interactive manner in the manner of a network or file directory tool. In this embodiment the system may work on an ad hoc basis with a variety of different network types and configurations. In the event that the interface to the database presents a webpage interface the query management routine may provide for the necessary interpretation and generation of web commands in HTML or XML necessary to communicate with that interface. In an alternative embodiment the query management routine may make use of the information previously stored in the network table to go to a preassigned address determined to be that of the database .

It will generally be appreciated that the invention permits a connection to the database that can be done with substantially no modification of the network and file server system other than making the necessary connections to the network incident to any wireless system and thus may work immediately in a variety of hospital environments and can be practical for as little as a single pump because of the relatively low fixed costs attendant to the system.

As indicated by process block of the query management routine may then prompt the user through displaced screen shown in to enter a patient name or other patient identification and may use that entered information as part of a search query to be provided to the database over the network .

Importantly the user need not enter information that uniquely identifies a patient but may enter a sub string providing some data necessary to select a group of patients to which the patient of interest belongs which may then be individually identified. This ability to search for a sub string allows the system to operate robustly without pre configuration or the user having detailed configuration information.

Accordingly at process block results of that search may be returned from the database over the network and displayed to the user on screen may present multiple search results for example as shown in representing several patients meeting the sub string search criteria. In this example the user may have entered as patient identification information the first four letters of the last name of the patient e.g. Ruth to receive back a search query consisting of the names of Ruth Rutherford and Ruthman each of which may be displayed to the user. The invention contemplates that there may also be multiple patients with the same last name. It will be appreciated that this process need not use the patient name but may use any patient identifier including a portion of their patient ID or the like.

The user may then select a given patient from this list using the keypad shown in the selection of which serves as a first level of confirmation of the correctness of the patient identity as well a selecting among multiple query responses. It will be appreciated that the ability to select among query responses also allows the system of the present invention to work without prior set up between the medical pump and the file server system or linking between a pump and a given patient.

This selected response may be then provided to the query management routine to formulate a new query intended to provide not simply patient names but a full listing of pump control information contained in the drug dispensary database . Alternatively the selected response may simply access specific data already downloaded with the query results. In either case the data associated with the selected query response may need reformatting to be compatible with the program settings of the medical pump and may need to be identified to a particular program setting of the medical pump . In this latter regard the user may drag the selected response as indicated by arrow of to a target identifying a needed program setting of the medical pump . This dragging process will provide the necessary reformatting or translation of the received data based on the needs of the target as indicated by process block . In a simple case the translation may be a range adjustment or truncation of precision and may be performed by a simple script of translation routine shown in that may work with a wide variety of database formats and or which may be customized to a particular database format. The values received by the target then provide the control parameters used by the pump control program e.g. pump flow rate delivery volume alarm settings and the like . In an extremely simple version the translation process may be performed by a transcription of the data by the user.

It will be appreciated that the translation process of process block allows a post hoc use of data of the database by the pump and also enlists the user both in verifying the data and mapping the data so that the invention may work with a wide variety of different pump types and different database organizations. To the extent that their idiosyncrasies in the way necessary pump data is stored in the database these idiosyncrasies may accommodate modification of the program of the pump and thus do not require a change to the hospital information infrastructure and in particular the format of the database .

Referring now to the query management routine may present the data that that will be used by the pump on the display screen shown in for review by the user typically a nurse or physician attending the patient. This display allows for confirmation by the user. Upon receipt of that confirmation per process block which may be entered for example by the pressing of a button or the entry of a code number through a keypad or the like the medical pump is fully programmed and may be activated by an additional command to operate to dispense medicine as indicated by process block .

It will be appreciated that the above described process reduces or eliminates errors in programming of the pump and may be used to program alarm parameters as well as drug delivery parameters including as noted flow rates drug volumes total delivery time and volume and the like. The above described process may provide convenience and save time by reducing key strokes when manually programming a pump through pump keypad which is a conventional practice.

During the operation of the pump per process block the same wireless network and the established connection may be used to report out particular alarm conditions and operating status of the machine as indicated by process block . The status may include for example problems detected in the delivery of the drug for example by sensors described above with respect to the activation of alarm conditions or the like. Other remote control of the pump through the network is also possible.

Referring now to and in an alternative embodiment limitations in the computational or hardware capability of the pump for example needed to support the network connection query generation and mapping process may be accommodated through the use of a proxy device typically nearby the medical pump and communicating therewith either through a wired or wireless connection. Alternatively the proxy device may be integrated into the medical pump for example in a docking cradle with an interfacing electrical connector removably holding for example a tablet or smart phone as described below.

The proxy device may also provide a processor executing a stored program implementing many of the functions of program including for example providing functions of the network stack the query management routine the network table and optionally the translation routine .

Per process block using the program the user may navigate to the database per process block for example as guided by output to a display and instructions provided by the user per a keyboard and mouse or the like such as a touch screen . Again as discussed with respect to process block above the user may enter a search query at process block and receive at process block the results of that query to identify and confirm a particular patient and to receive associated pump programming information from the database .

In one embodiment this pump programming information may then be conveyed directly to the pump as indicated by dotted line . Under this approach information may be transmitted from the proxy device to the pump or the user may provide to the server system a pump identification number so that the results from the search criteria go directly to the pump . Alternatively the translation process may be conducted on the proxy device as indicated by process block and the translated and mapped instructions transferred to the pump as indicated by dotted line .

Referring momentarily to this transfer may be affected through the wireless network circuit or through another communication protocol stack for example Bluetooth communication or direct cabling communicating with comparable hardware in the medical pump .

In both of the above examples the authorization step of process block on the pump is preserved as are the step of process block and optionally of process block .

In the above examples the communication between the pump and the file server system may be conducted through an agent device for example providing a standard address preprogrammed into each of the pumps . As illustrated in the agent device may then implement a router type function to communicate with the necessary address of the file system and database . In this way each of the pumps may be preprogrammed with only the address of the agent device and the agent device may be programmed independently for example using a more convenient user interface and a more powerful processing circuit. For example the agent device may be a standard desktop computer or the like including for example a computer implementing the proxy device . The agent device may likewise implement some of the steps of the proxy device .

Significantly the agent device may be used to provide for the communication of data between the proxy device and the pump when the proxy device is used. For example in one embodiment the transfer of data to the pump from the server system and hence from the database may be received by the proxy device and transferred to the agent device and then to the pump . Alternatively the data from the server system intended for the proxy device may be intercepted by the agent device to be transmitted to the pump . In this latter case all communications via the proxy device may pass through the agent device . Again this provides a uniformity of communication addresses for the pump and agent device and further allows the existing hospital file server system to be used without modification or substantial modification. This elimination of the need to modify the existing information infrastructure of the hospital both simplifies the use of the present invention and allows its incremental adoption without the need to overcome substantial fixed capital costs.

Referring now to the proxy device in the form of a smart phone or tablet may be received within a socket formed in a front panel of an infusion pump to engage with an electrical connector on the infusion pump within the socket and providing direct electrical communication between the pump e.g. the controller and the proxy device . As is generally understood in the art a table and or smart phone will generally have wireless capabilities a data exchange socket and full user interface including typically a touch screen display driven by an internal processor having local memory. The socket may further provide mechanical retention elements releasably holding the proxy device therein. Optionally the communication between the pump and proxy device may be wireless for example by a Bluetooth connection.

As so installed in the pump the proxy device may present a front facing data entry and display screen for example a touch screen allowing the user to enter the search strings described above. In this regard it will be appreciated that the proxy device may communicate wirelessly with the file system through the wireless network circuit and may provide a conduit for the received programming data passed from file system through the proxy device to the pump through the connector . Generally the proxy device will not control actual pump functions which will be controlled instead by the internal pump controller described above with respect to .

A special application program running on the proxy device communicating with the browser on the proxy device may be used to communicate through connector the required data. Additional controls may also be provided to allow full functionality of the pump without the proxy device .

In application for example the proxy device may be used either free from the pump or when connected to the pump to make the connections to the file system and to obtain the necessary pump programming information. The application program running on the proxy device may require that the proxy device be installed in the pump for inputting some pump specific information such as drug type and or confirming patient identification and other matters and for downloading the pump programming information to the pump . In this respect the pump may communicate a unique pump identifier number to the proxy device that may be used to ensure correct matching of pump and programming information to a patient. Attaching the proxy device to the socket may help reduce programming errors that could occur when using a highly mobile device by providing a physical reminder of the particular pump being program. The connector in addition to transferring data may provide power to the proxy device . The proxy device may provide for ancillary or improved interface functionality in the pump for example to provide reporting functions from the pump to the file system and storing data therefrom.

It will be appreciated that the invention allows the actual pump programming data to be transmitted electronically eliminating the possibility of keystroke errors or the like.

Patient date of birth voice recognition partial search and search results allow flexible identification of the records regardless of precise indexing.

A patient comes to a clinic for an infusion treatment ordered by her doctor. A care giver such as a nurse inputs the last 4 digits of the patient identification into a pump and initiates an inquiry for all infusion orders created for this patient within the organization. The pump communicates with a database through a server to search for all infusion orders that meet the searching criterion e.g. infusion orders where the last 4 digits of patient identification matches what the nurse has input . The searching criterion can be refined at the server for example because the inquiry comes from a pump or a device that associated with a pump and the search will be conducted for all infusion related orders not other information such as prescriptions of medicines that needs to be taken orally.

Infusion orders populating the database can be generated by a pharmacist and saved previously in the database through a server application programming interface or by a printer that automatically sends all information related to dispensed drugs to the database when the order is printed. This process can be done by customizing the printer driver file.

The search results from a database are then returned to the pump or other devices associated with the pump through a server system. The returned searching results could be a list of infusion orders with patient identification ending with the same 4 digits the nurse input. The returned infusion orders can be for the same patient or different patients. The nurse reviews the resulting orders further refines the search by verifying the entire name and date of birth of the specific patient then selects one or more infusion orders to execute.

If the resulting order is found the nurse can convert the order to a pump programming code and send it to the pump. The details of the order such as flow rate volume to be infused infusion time and maximum allowable flow rate for this drug etc. can be displayed on the pump for the nurse to verify before executing. At this point the nurse can also change the parameters if necessary.

The nurse authorizes the execution of a specific order after confirmation of the correctness of the infusion task. The nurse can also monitor the execution of the selected programmed infusion order directly on the pump or remotely through a server. Related infusion information can be stored on a database and may be processed in real time or retrospectively. The completed infusion task can be reported by the pump or other devices on behalf of the pump for administrative purpose such as bill paying management.

A pump user can input the searching criterion criteria from a computer separate from the pump. As in the searching criterion in Example I the nurse can input the last 4 digits of the patient identification into a computer and initiate an inquiry for all infusion orders created for this patient within the organization and request the results to be displayed on the pump by inputting a pump identification number. A server performs the search from relevant data source and returns the results to the pump as identified.

A pump user can input the searching criterion criteria from a mobile device such as a tablet or cell phone. As in the searching criterion in Example I the nurse can input the last 4 digits of the patient dedication into a mobile phone and initiate an inquiry for all infusion orders created for this patient within the organization and request the results to be displayed on the pump by providing the pump identifier or displayed on both the phone and the pump. A server serves as an agent and performs the search from relevant data source and returns results to the pump using the pump identifier. This method enables home care pump users to obtain patient specific infusion orders wirelessly through mobile phones. The user can refine the search results and authorize execution of an infusion tasks after final selections and or modifications.

Certain terminology is used herein for purposes of reference only and thus is not intended to be limiting. For example terms such as upper lower above and below refer to directions in the drawings to which reference is made. Terms such as front back rear bottom and side describe the orientation of portions of the component within a consistent but arbitrary frame of reference which is made clear by reference to the text and the associated drawings describing the component under discussion. Such terminology may include the words specifically mentioned above derivatives thereof and words of similar import. Similarly the terms first second and other such numerical terms referring to structures do not imply a sequence or order unless clearly indicated by the context.

When introducing elements or features of the present disclosure and the exemplary embodiments the articles a an the and said are intended to mean that there are one or more of such elements or features. The terms comprising including and having are intended to be inclusive and mean that there may be additional elements or features other than those specifically noted. It is further to be understood that the method steps processes and operations described herein are not to be construed as necessarily requiring their performance in the particular order discussed or illustrated unless specifically identified as an order of performance. It is also to be understood that additional or alternative steps may be employed.

References to a microprocessor and a processor or the microprocessor and the processor can be understood to include one or more microprocessors that can communicate in a stand alone and or a distributed environment s and can thus be configured to communicate via wired or wireless communications with other processors where such one or more processor can be configured to operate on one or more processor controlled devices that can be similar or different devices. Furthermore references to memory unless otherwise specified can include one or more processor readable and accessible memory elements and or components that can be internal to the processor controlled device external to the processor controlled device and can be accessed via a wired or wireless network.

It is specifically intended that the present invention not be limited to the embodiments and illustrations contained herein and the claims should be understood to include modified forms of those embodiments including portions of the embodiments and combinations of elements of different embodiments as come within the scope of the following claims. All of the publications described herein including patents and non patent publications are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

