---

title: Antibacterial aminoglycoside analogs
abstract: 

including stereoisomers, pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof, wherein Q, Q, Q, R, R, R, Zand Zare as defined herein. Methods associated with preparation and use of such compounds, as well as pharmaceutical compositions comprising such compounds, are also disclosed.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08481502&OS=08481502&RS=08481502
owner: Achaogen, Inc.
number: 08481502
owner_city: South San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120406
---
This application is a continuation of International PCT Patent Application No. PCT US2010 052043 filed on Oct. 8 2010 now pending which claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 250 119 filed Oct. 9 2009. The foregoing applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

This invention was made with government support under Contract No. HHSN272200800043C awarded by the National Institutes of Health an agency of the United States Department of Health and Human Services. The government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention is directed to novel aminoglycoside compounds and methods for their preparation and use as therapeutic or prophylactic agents.

A particular interest in modern drug discovery is the development of novel low molecular weight drugs that work by binding to RNA. RNA which serves as a messenger between DNA and proteins was thought to be an entirely flexible molecule without significant structural complexity. Recent studies have revealed a surprising intricacy in RNA structure. RNA has a structural complexity rivaling proteins rather than simple motifs like DNA. Genome sequencing reveals both the sequences of the proteins and the mRNAs that encode them. Since proteins are synthesized using an RNA template such proteins can be inhibited by preventing their production in the first place by interfering with the translation of the mRNA. Since both proteins and the RNAs are potential drug targeting sites the number of targets revealed from genome sequencing efforts is effectively doubled. These observations unlock a new world of opportunities for the pharmaceutical industry to target RNA with small molecules.

Classical drug discovery has focused on proteins as targets for intervention. Proteins can be extremely difficult to isolate and purify in the appropriate form for use in assays for drug screening. Many proteins require post translational modifications that occur only in specific cell types under specific conditions. Proteins fold into globular domains with hydrophobic cores and hydrophilic and charged groups on the surface. Multiple subunits frequently form complexes which may be required for a valid drug screen. Membrane proteins usually need to be embedded in a membrane to retain their proper shape. The smallest practical unit of a protein that can be used in drug screening is a globular domain. The notion of removing a single alpha helix or turn of a beta sheet and using it in a drug screen is not practical since only the intact protein may have the appropriate 3 dimensional shape for drug binding. Preparation of biologically active proteins for screening is a major limitation in classical high throughput screening. Quite often the limiting reagent in high throughput screening efforts is a biologically active form of a protein which can also be quite expensive.

For screening to discover compounds that bind RNA targets the classic approaches used for proteins can be superceded with new approaches. All RNAs are essentially equivalent in their solubility ease of synthesis or use in assays. The physical properties of RNAs are independent of the protein they encode. They may be readily prepared in large quantity through either chemical or enzymatic synthesis and are not extensively modified in vivo. With RNA the smallest practical unit for drug binding is the functional subdomain. A functional subdomain in RNA is a fragment that when removed from the larger RNA and studied in isolation retains its biologically relevant shape and protein or RNA binding properties. The size and composition of RNA functional subdomains make them accessible by enzymatic or chemical synthesis. The structural biology community has developed significant experience in identification of functional RNA subdomains in order to facilitate structural studies by techniques such as NMR spectroscopy. For example small analogs of the decoding region of 16S rRNA the A site have been identified as containing only the essential region and have been shown to bind antibiotics in the same fashion as the intact ribosome.

The binding sites on RNA are hydrophilic and relatively open as compared to proteins. The potential for small molecule recognition based on shape is enhanced by the deformability of RNA. The binding of molecules to specific RNA targets can be determined by global conformation and the distribution of charged aromatic and hydrogen bonding groups off of a relatively rigid scaffold. Properly placed positive charges are believed to be important since long range electrostatic interactions can be used to steer molecules into a binding pocket with the proper orientation. In structures where nucleobases are exposed stacking interactions with aromatic functional groups may contribute to the binding interaction. The major groove of RNA provides many sites for specific hydrogen bonding with a ligand. These include the aromatic N7 nitrogen atoms of adenosine and guanosine the O4 and O6 oxygen atoms of uridine and guanosine and the amines of adenosine and cytidine. The rich structural and sequence diversity of RNA suggests to us that ligands can be created with high affinity and specificity for their target.

Although our understanding of RNA structure and folding as well as the modes in which RNA is recognized by other ligands is far from being comprehensive significant progress has been made in the last decade see e.g. Chow C. S. Bogdan F. M. 1997 97 1489 and Wallis M. G. Schroeder R. 1997 67 141 . Despite the central role RNA plays in the replication of bacteria drugs that target these pivotal RNA sites of these pathogens are scarce. The increasing problem of bacterial resistance to antibiotics makes the search for novel RNA binders of crucial importance.

Certain small molecules can bind and block essential functions of RNA. Examples of such molecules include the aminoglycoside antibiotics and drugs such as erythromycin which binds to bacterial rRNA and releases peptidyl tRNA and mRNA. Aminoglycoside antibiotics have long been known to bind RNA. They exert their antibacterial effects by binding to specific target sites in the bacterial ribosome. For the structurally related antibiotics neamine ribostamycin neomycin B and paromomycin the binding site has been localized to the A site of the prokaryotic 16S ribosomal decoding region RNA see Moazed D. Noller H. F. 1987 327 389 . Binding of aminoglycosides to this RNA target interferes with the fidelity of mRNA translation and results in miscoding and truncation leading ultimately to bacterial cell death see Alper P. B. Hendrix M. Sears P. Wong C. 1998 120 1965 .

There is a need in the art for new chemical entities that work against bacteria with broad spectrum activity. Perhaps the biggest challenge in discovering RNA binding antibacterial drugs is identifying vital structures common to bacteria that can be disabled by small molecule drug binding. A challenge in targeting RNA with small molecules is to develop a chemical strategy which recognizes specific shapes of RNA. There are three sets of data that provide hints on how to do this natural protein interactions with RNA natural product antibiotics that bind RNA and man made RNAs aptamers that bind proteins and other molecules. Each data set however provides different insights to the problem.

Several classes of drugs obtained from natural sources have been shown to work by binding to RNA or RNA protein complexes. These include three different structural classes of antibiotics thiostreptone the aminoglycoside family and the macrolide family of antibiotics. These examples provide powerful clues to how small molecules and targets might be selected. Nature has selected RNA targets in the ribosome one of the most ancient and conserved targets in bacteria. Since antibacterial drugs are desired to be potent and have broad spectrum activity these ancient processes fundamental to all bacterial life represent attractive targets. The closer we get to ancient conserved functions the more likely we are to find broadly conserved RNA shapes. It is important to also consider the shape of the equivalent structure in humans since bacteria were unlikely to have considered the therapeutic index of their RNAs while evolving them.

A large number of natural antibiotics exist these include the aminoglycosides such as kirromycin neomycin paromomycin thiostrepton and many others. They are very potent bactericidal compounds that bind RNA of the small ribosomal subunit. The bactericidal action is mediated by binding to the bacterial RNA in a fashion that leads to misreading of the genetic code. Misreading of the code during translation of integral membrane proteins is thought to produce abnormal proteins that compromise the barrier properties of the bacterial membrane.

Antibiotics are chemical substances produced by various species of microorganisms bacteria fungi actinomycetes that suppress the growth of other microorganisms and may eventually destroy them. However common usage often extends the term antibiotics to include synthetic antibacterial agents such as the sulfonamides and quinolines that are not products of microbes. The number of antibiotics that have been identified now extends into the hundreds and many of these have been developed to the stage where they are of value in the therapy of infectious diseases. Antibiotics differ markedly in physical chemical and pharmacological properties antibacterial spectra and mechanisms of action. In recent years knowledge of molecular mechanisms of bacterial fungal and viral replication has greatly facilitated rational development of compounds that can interfere with the life cycles of these microorganisms.

At least 30 of all hospitalized patients now receive one or more courses of therapy with antibiotics and millions of potentially fatal infections have been cured. At the same time these pharmaceutical agents have become among the most misused of those available to the practicing physician. One result of widespread use of antimicrobial agents has been the emergence of antibiotic resistant pathogens which in turn has created an ever increasing need for new drugs. Many of these agents have also contributed significantly to the rising costs of medical care.

When the antimicrobial activity of a new agent is first tested a pattern of sensitivity and resistance is usually defined. Unfortunately this spectrum of activity can subsequently change to a remarkable degree because microorganisms have evolved the array of ingenious alterations discussed above that allow them to survive in the presence of antibiotics. The mechanism of drug resistance varies from microorganism to microorganism and from drug to drug.

The development of resistance to antibiotics usually involves a stable genetic change inheritable from generation to generation. Any of the mechanisms that result in alteration of bacterial genetic composition can operate. While mutation is frequently the cause resistance to antimicrobial agents may be acquired through transfer of genetic material from one bacterium to another by transduction transformation or conjugation.

For the foregoing reasons while progress has been made in this field there is a need for new chemical entities that possess antibacterial activity. Further in order to accelerate the drug discovery process new methods for synthesizing aminoglycoside antibiotics are needed to provide an array of compounds that are potentially new drugs for the treatment of bacterial infections. The present invention fulfills these needs and provides further related advantages.

In brief the present invention is directed to novel aminoglycoside compounds having antibacterial activity including stereoisomers pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof and the use of such compounds in the treatment of bacterial infections.

each Rand Ris independently hydrogen or C Calkyl optionally substituted with one or more halogen hydroxyl or amino 

or Rand Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached can form a heterocyclic ring having from 4 to 6 ring atoms or Rand one Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached can form a heterocyclic ring having from 3 to 6 ring atoms or Rand one Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached can form a carbocyclic ring having from 3 to 6 ring atoms 

wherein i at least one of Zand Zis H ii at least one of Rand Ris substituted C Calkyl or at least one Ris halogen hydroxyl or amino and iii the two adjacent CH groups to which Zand Zare attached may optionally form a double bond.

Qis alkyl optionally substituted with one or more halogen hydroxyl amino optionally substituted cycloalkyl or optionally substituted heterocyclyl 

each R R Rand Ris independently hydrogen or C Calkyl optionally substituted with one or more halogen hydroxyl or amino 

or Rand Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached can form a heterocyclic ring having from 4 to 6 ring atoms or Rand one Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached can form a heterocyclic ring having from 3 to 6 ring atoms or Rand one Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached can form a carbocyclic ring having from 3 to 6 ring atoms or Rand Rtogether with the atom to which they are attached can form a heterocyclic ring having from 3 to 6 ring atoms 

each Ris independently hydrogen hydroxyl amino or C Calkyl optionally substituted with one or more halogen hydroxyl or amino 

or Rand one Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached can form a heterocyclic ring having from 3 to 6 ring atoms or Rand one Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached can form a carbocyclic ring having from 3 to 6 ring atoms 

wherein i at least one of Zand Zis H and ii the two adjacent CH groups to which Zand Zare attached may optionally form a double bond.

In another embodiment a pharmaceutical composition is provided comprising a compound having structure I or a stereoisomer pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent or excipient.

In another embodiment a method of using a compound having structure I in therapy is provided. In particular the present invention provides a method of treating a bacterial infection in a mammal comprising administering to a mammal in need thereof an effective amount of a compound having structure I or a stereoisomer pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof. In addition the present invention provides a method of treating a bacterial infection in a mammal comprising administering to a mammal in need thereof an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound having structure I or a stereoisomer pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent or excipient.

These and other aspects of the invention will be apparent upon reference to the following detailed description.

In the following description certain specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments of the invention. However one skilled in the art will understand that the invention may be practiced without these details.

Unless the context requires otherwise throughout the present specification and claims the word comprise and variations thereof such as comprises and comprising are to be construed in an open inclusive sense that is as including but not limited to .

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus the appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

 Alkyl refers to a straight or branched hydrocarbon chain radical consisting solely of carbon and hydrogen atoms which is saturated or unsaturated i.e. contains one or more double and or triple bonds having from one to twelve carbon atoms C Calkyl preferably one to eight carbon atoms C Calkyl or one to six carbon atoms C Calkyl and which is attached to the rest of the molecule by a single bond e.g. methyl ethyl n propyl 1 methylethyl iso propyl n butyl n pentyl 1 1 dimethylethyl t butyl 3 methylhexyl 2 methylhexyl ethenyl prop 1 enyl but 1 enyl penta 1 4 dienyl ethynyl propynyl butyryl pentynyl hexynyl and the like. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification an alkyl group may be optionally substituted.

 Alkylene or alkylene chain refers to a straight or branched divalent hydrocarbon chain linking the rest of the molecule to a radical group consisting solely of carbon and hydrogen which is saturated or unsaturated i.e. contains one or more double and or triple bonds and having from one to twelve carbon atoms e.g. methylene ethylene propylene n butylene ethenylene propenylene n butenylene propynylene n butynylene and the like. The alkylene chain is attached to the rest of the molecule through a single or double bond and to the radical group through a single or double bond. The points of attachment of the alkylene chain to the rest of the molecule and to the radical group can be through one carbon or any two carbons within the chain. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification an alkylene chain may be optionally substituted.

 Alkoxy refers to a radical of the formula ORwhere Ris an alkyl radical as defined above containing one to twelve carbon atoms. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification an alkoxy group may be optionally substituted.

 Alkylamino refers to a radical of the formula NHRor NRRwhere each Ris independently an alkyl radical as defined above containing one to twelve carbon atoms. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification an alkylamino group may be optionally substituted.

 Thioalkyl refers to a radical of the formula SRwhere Ris an alkyl radical as defined above containing one to twelve carbon atoms. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification a thioalkyl group may be optionally substituted.

 Aryl refers to a hydrocarbon ring system radical comprising hydrogen 6 to 18 carbon atoms and at least one aromatic ring. For purposes of this invention the aryl radical may be a monocyclic bicyclic tricyclic or tetracyclic ring system which may include fused or bridged ring systems. Aryl radicals include but are not limited to aryl radicals derived from aceanthrylene acenaphthylene acephenanthrylene anthracene azulene benzene chrysene fluoranthene fluorene as indacene s indacene indane indene naphthalene phenalene phenanthrene pleiadene pyrene and triphenylene. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification the term aryl or the prefix ar such as in aralkyl is meant to include aryl radicals that are optionally substituted.

 Aralkyl refers to a radical of the formula R Rwhere Ris an alkylene chain as defined above and Ris one or more aryl radicals as defined above for example benzyl diphenylmethyl and the like. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification an aralkyl group may be optionally substituted.

 Cycloalkyl or carbocyclic ring refers to a stable non aromatic monocyclic or polycyclic hydrocarbon radical consisting solely of carbon and hydrogen atoms which may include fused or bridged ring systems having from three to fifteen carbon atoms preferably having from three to ten carbon atoms and which is saturated or unsaturated and attached to the rest of the molecule by a single bond. Monocyclic radicals include for example cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl and cyclooctyl. Polycyclic radicals include for example adamantyl norbornyl decalinyl 7 7 dimethyl bicyclo 2.2.1 heptanyl and the like. Unless otherwise stated specifically in the specification a cycloalkyl group may be optionally substituted.

 Cycloalkylalkyl refers to a radical of the formula RRwhere Ris an alkylene chain as defined above and Ris a cycloalkyl radical as defined above. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification a cycloalkylalkyl group may be optionally substituted.

 Fused refers to any ring structure described herein which is fused to an existing ring structure in the compounds of the invention. When the fused ring is a heterocyclyl ring or a heteroaryl ring any carbon atom on the existing ring structure which becomes part of the fused heterocyclyl ring or the fused heteroaryl ring may be replaced with a nitrogen atom.

 Haloalkyl refers to an alkyl radical as defined above that is substituted by one or more halo radicals as defined above e.g. trifluoromethyl difluoromethyl trichloromethyl 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl 1 2 difluoroethyl 3 bromo 2 fluoropropyl 1 2 dibromoethyl and the like. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification a haloalkyl group may be optionally substituted.

 Heterocyclyl or heterocyclic ring refers to a stable 3 to 18 membered non aromatic ring radical which consists of two to twelve carbon atoms and from one to six heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification the heterocyclyl radical may be a monocyclic bicyclic tricyclic or tetracyclic ring system which may include fused or bridged ring systems and the nitrogen carbon or sulfur atoms in the heterocyclyl radical may be optionally oxidized the nitrogen atom may be optionally quaternized and the heterocyclyl radical may be partially or fully saturated. Examples of such heterocyclyl radicals include but are not limited to dioxolanyl thienyl 1 3 dithianyl decahydroisoquinolyl imidazolinyl imidazolidinyl isothiazolidinyl isoxazolidinyl morpholinyl octahydroindolyl octahydroisoindolyl 2 oxopiperazinyl 2 oxopiperidinyl 2 oxopyrrolidinyl oxazolidinyl piperidinyl piperazinyl 4 piperidonyl pyrrolidinyl pyrazolidinyl quinuclidinyl thiazolidinyl tetrahydrofuryl trithianyl tetrahydropyranyl thiomorpholinyl thiamorpholinyl 1 oxo thiomorpholinyl and 1 1 dioxo thiomorpholinyl. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification a heterocyclyl group may be optionally substituted.

 N heterocyclyl refers to a heterocyclyl radical as defined above containing at least one nitrogen and where the point of attachment of the heterocyclyl radical to the rest of the molecule is through a nitrogen atom in the heterocyclyl radical. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification a N heterocyclyl group may be optionally substituted.

 Heterocyclylalkyl refers to a radical of the formula RRwhere Ris an alkylene chain as defined above and Ris a heterocyclyl radical as defined above and if the heterocyclyl is a nitrogen containing heterocyclyl the heterocyclyl may be attached to the alkyl radical at the nitrogen atom. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification a heterocyclylalkyl group may be optionally substituted.

 Heteroaryl refers to a 5 to 14 membered ring system radical comprising hydrogen atoms one to thirteen carbon atoms one to six heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of nitrogen oxygen and sulfur and at least one aromatic ring. For purposes of this invention the heteroaryl radical may be a monocyclic bicyclic tricyclic or tetracyclic ring system which may include fused or bridged ring systems and the nitrogen carbon or sulfur atoms in the heteroaryl radical may be optionally oxidized the nitrogen atom may be optionally quaternized. Examples include but are not limited to azepinyl acridinyl benzimidazolyl benzothiazolyl benzindolyl benzodioxolyl benzofuranyl benzooxazolyl benzothiazolyl benzothiadiazolyl benzo b 1 4 dioxepinyl 1 4 benzodioxanyl benzonaphthofuranyl benzoxazolyl benzodioxolyl benzodioxinyl benzopyranyl benzopyranonyl benzofuranyl benzofuranonyl benzothienyl benzothiophenyl benzotriazolyl benzo 4 6 imidazo 1 2 a pyridinyl carbazolyl cinnolinyl dibenzofuranyl dibenzothiophenyl furanyl furanonyl isothiazolyl imidazolyl indazolyl indolyl indazolyl isoindolyl indolinyl isoindolinyl isoquinolyl indolizinyl isoxazolyl naphthyridinyl oxadiazolyl 2 oxoazepinyl oxazolyl oxiranyl oxidopyridinyl 1 oxidopyrimidinyl 1 oxidopyrazinyl 1 oxidopyridazinyl 1 phenyl 1H pyrrolyl phenazinyl phenothiazinyl phenoxazinyl phthalazinyl pteridinyl purinyl pyrrolyl pyrazolyl pyridinyl pyrazinyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl quinolinyl quinuclidinyl isoquinolinyl tetrahydroquinolinyl thiazolyl thiadiazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl triazinyl and thiophenyl i.e. thienyl . Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification a heteroaryl group may be optionally substituted.

 N heteroaryl refers to a heteroaryl radical as defined above containing at least one nitrogen and where the point of attachment of the heteroaryl radical to the rest of the molecule is through a nitrogen atom in the heteroaryl radical. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification an N heteroaryl group may be optionally substituted.

 Heteroarylalkyl refers to a radical of the formula RRwhere Ris an alkylene chain as defined above and Ris a heteroaryl radical as defined above. Unless stated otherwise specifically in the specification a heteroarylalkyl group may be optionally substituted.

The term substituted used herein means any of the above groups i.e. alkyl alkylene alkoxy alkylamino thioalkyl aryl aralkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl haloalkyl heterocyclyl N heterocyclyl heterocyclylalkyl heteroaryl N heteroaryl and or heteroarylalkyl wherein at least one hydrogen atom is replaced by a bond to a non hydrogen atoms such as but not limited to a halogen atom such as F Cl Br and I an oxygen atom in groups such as hydroxyl groups alkoxy groups and ester groups a sulfur atom in groups such as thiol groups thioalkyl groups sulfone groups sulfonyl groups and sulfoxide groups a nitrogen atom in groups such as amines amides alkylamines dialkylamines arylamines alkylarylamines diarylamines N oxides imides and enamines a silicon atom in groups such as trialkylsilyl groups dialkylarylsilyl groups alkyldiarylsilyl groups and triarylsilyl groups and other heteroatoms in various other groups. Substituted also means any of the above groups in which one or more hydrogen atoms are replaced by a higher order bond e.g. a double or triple bond to a heteroatom such as oxygen in oxo carbonyl carboxyl and ester groups and nitrogen in groups such as imines oximes hydrazones and nitriles. For example substituted includes any of the above groups in which one or more hydrogen atoms are replaced with NRR NRC O R NRC O NRR NRC O OR NRC NR NRR NRSOR OC O NRR OR SR SOR SOR OSOR SOOR NSOR and SONRR. Substituted also means any of the above groups in which one or more hydrogen atoms are replaced with C O R C O OR C O NR R CHSOR CHSONRR. In the foregoing Rand Rare the same or different and independently hydrogen alkyl alkoxy alkylamino thioalkyl aryl aralkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl haloalkyl heterocyclyl N heterocyclyl heterocyclylalkyl heteroaryl N heteroaryl and or heteroarylalkyl. Substituted further means any of the above groups in which one or more hydrogen atoms are replaced by a bond to an amino cyano hydroxyl imino nitro oxo thioxo halo alkyl alkoxy alkylamino thioalkyl aryl aralkyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylalkyl haloalkyl heterocyclyl N heterocyclyl heterocyclylalkyl heteroaryl N heteroaryl and or heteroarylalkyl group. In addition each of the foregoing substituents may also be optionally substituted with one or more of the above substituents.

The term protecting group as used herein refers to a labile chemical moiety which is known in the art to protect reactive groups including without limitation hydroxyl and amino groups against undesired reactions during synthetic procedures. Hydroxyl and amino groups which protected with a protecting group are referred to herein as protected hydroxyl groups and protected amino groups respectively. Protecting groups are typically used selectively and or orthogonally to protect sites during reactions at other reactive sites and can then be removed to leave the unprotected group as is or available for further reactions. Protecting groups as known in the art are described generally in Greene and Wuts Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis 3rd edition John Wiley Sons New York 1999 . Groups can be selectively incorporated into aminoglycosides of the invention as precursors. For example an amino group can be placed into a compound of the invention as an azido group that can be chemically converted to the amino group at a desired point in the synthesis. Generally groups are protected or present as a precursor that will be inert to reactions that modify other areas of the parent molecule for conversion into their final groups at an appropriate time. Further representative protecting or precursor groups are discussed in Agrawal et al. Protocols for Oligonucleotide Conjugates Eds Humana Press New Jersey 1994 Vol. 26 pp. 1 72. Examples of hydroxyl protecting groups include but are not limited to t butyl t butoxymethyl methoxymethyl tetrahydropyranyl 1 ethoxyethyl 1 2 chloroethoxy ethyl 2 trimethylsilylethyl p chlorophenyl 2 4 dinitrophenyl benzyl 2 6 dichlorobenzyl diphenylmethyl p nitrobenzyl triphenylmethyl trimethylsilyl triethylsilyl t butyldimethylsilyl t butyldiphenylsilyl TBDPS triphenylsilyl benzoylformate acetate chloroacetate trichloroacetate trifluoroacetate pivaloate benzoate p phenylbenzoate 9 fluorenylmethyl carbonate mesylate and tosylate. Examples of amino protecting groups include but are not limited to carbamate protecting groups such as 2 trimethylsilylethoxycarbonyl Teoc 1 methyl 1 4 biphenylyl ethoxycarbonyl Bpoc t butoxycarbonyl BOC allyloxycarbonyl Allot 9 fluorenylmethyloxycarbonyl Fmoc and benzyloxycarbonyl Cbz amide protecting groups such as formyl acetyl trihaloacetyl benzoyl and nitrophenylacetyl sulfonamide protecting groups such as 2 nitrobenzenesulfonyl and imine and cyclic imide protecting groups such as phthalimido and dithiasuccinoyl.

 Prodrug is meant to indicate a compound that may be converted under physiological conditions or by solvolysis to a biologically active compound of the invention. Thus the term prodrug refers to a metabolic precursor of a compound of the invention that is pharmaceutically acceptable. A prodrug may be inactive when administered to a subject in need thereof but is converted in vivo to an active compound of the invention. Prodrugs are typically rapidly transformed in vivo to yield the parent compound of the invention for example by hydrolysis in blood. The prodrug compound often offers advantages of solubility tissue compatibility or delayed release in a mammalian organism see Bundgard H. Design of Prodrugs 1985 pp. 7 9 21 24 Elsevier Amsterdam . A discussion of prodrugs is provided in Higuchi T. et al. A.C.S. Symposium Series Vol. 14 and in Bioreversible Carriers in Drug Design Ed. Edward B. Roche American Pharmaceutical Association and Pergamon Press 1987.

The term prodrug is also meant to include any covalently bonded carriers which release the active compound of the invention in vivo when such prodrug is administered to a mammalian subject. Prodrugs of a compound of the invention may be prepared by modifying functional groups present in the compound of the invention in such a way that the modifications are cleaved either in routine manipulation or in vivo to the parent compound of the invention. Prodrugs include compounds of the invention wherein a hydroxy amino or mercapto group is bonded to any group that when the prodrug of the compound of the invention is administered to a mammalian subject cleaves to form a free hydroxy free amino or free mercapto group respectively. Examples of prodrugs include but are not limited to acetate formate and benzoate derivatives of alcohol or amide derivatives of amine functional groups in the compounds of the invention and the like.

The invention disclosed herein is also meant to encompass all pharmaceutically acceptable compounds of structure I being isotopically labelled by having one or more atoms replaced by an atom having a different atomic mass or mass number. Examples of isotopes that can be incorporated into the disclosed compounds include isotopes of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorous fluorine chlorine and iodine such as H H C C C N N O O O P P S F Cl I and I respectively. These radiolabelled compounds could be useful to help determine or measure the effectiveness of the compounds by characterizing for example the site or mode of action or binding affinity to pharmacologically important site of action. Certain isotopically labelled compounds of structure I for example those incorporating a radioactive isotope are useful in drug and or substrate tissue distribution studies. The radioactive isotopes tritium i.e. H and carbon 14 i.e. C are particularly useful for this purpose in view of their ease of incorporation and ready means of detection.

Substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium i.e. H may afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability for example increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements and hence may be preferred in some circumstances.

Substitution with positron emitting isotopes such as C F O and N can be useful in Positron Emission Topography PET studies for examining substrate receptor occupancy. Isotopically labeled compounds of structure I can generally be prepared by conventional techniques known to those skilled in the art or by processes analogous to those described in the Preparations and Examples as set out below using an appropriate isotopically labeled reagent in place of the non labeled reagent previously employed.

The invention disclosed herein is also meant to encompass the in vivo metabolic products of the disclosed compounds. Such products may result from for example the oxidation reduction hydrolysis amidation esterification and the like of the administered compound primarily due to enzymatic processes. Accordingly the invention includes compounds produced by a process comprising administering a compound of this invention to a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof. Such products are typically identified by administering a radiolabelled compound of the invention in a detectable dose to an animal such as rat mouse guinea pig monkey or to human allowing sufficient time for metabolism to occur and isolating its conversion products from the urine blood or other biological samples.

 Stable compound and stable structure are meant to indicate a compound that is sufficiently robust to survive isolation to a useful degree of purity from a reaction mixture and formulation into an efficacious therapeutic agent.

 Mammal includes humans and both domestic animals such as laboratory animals and household pets e.g. cats dogs swine cattle sheep goats horses rabbits and non domestic animals such as wildlife and the like.

 Optional or optionally means that the subsequently described event of circumstances may or may not occur and that the description includes instances where said event or circumstance occurs and instances in which it does not. For example optionally substituted aryl means that the aryl radical may or may not be substituted and that the description includes both substituted aryl radicals and aryl radicals having no substitution.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent or excipient includes without limitation any adjuvant carrier excipient glidant sweetening agent diluent preservative dye colorant flavor enhancer surfactant wetting agent dispersing agent suspending agent stabilizer isotonic agent solvent or emulsifier which has been approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration as being acceptable for use in humans or domestic animals.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salt refers to those salts which retain the biological effectiveness and properties of the free bases which are not biologically or otherwise undesirable and which are formed with inorganic acids such as but are not limited to hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid phosphoric acid and the like and organic acids such as but not limited to acetic acid 2 2 dichloroacetic acid adipic acid alginic acid ascorbic acid aspartic acid benzenesulfonic acid benzoic acid 4 acetamidobenzoic acid camphoric acid camphor 10 sulfonic acid capric acid caproic acid caprylic acid carbonic acid cinnamic acid citric acid cyclamic acid dodecylsulfuric acid ethane 1 2 disulfonic acid ethanesulfonic acid 2 hydroxyethanesulfonic acid formic acid fumaric acid galactaric acid gentisic acid glucoheptonic acid gluconic acid glucuronic acid glutamic acid glutaric acid 2 oxo glutaric acid glycerophosphoric acid glycolic acid hippuric acid isobutyric acid lactic acid lactobionic acid lauric acid maleic acid malic acid malonic acid mandelic acid methanesulfonic acid mucic acid naphthalene 1 5 disulfonic acid naphthalene 2 sulfonic acid 1 hydroxy 2 naphthoic acid nicotinic acid oleic acid orotic acid oxalic acid palmitic acid pamoic acid propionic acid pyroglutamic acid pyruvic acid salicylic acid 4 aminosalicylic acid sebacic acid stearic acid succinic acid tartaric acid thiocyanic acid p toluenesulfonic acid trifluoroacetic acid undecylenic acid and the like.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salt refers to those salts which retain the biological effectiveness and properties of the free acids which are not biologically or otherwise undesirable. These salts are prepared from addition of an inorganic base or an organic base to the free acid. Salts derived from inorganic bases include but are not limited to the sodium potassium lithium ammonium calcium magnesium iron zinc copper manganese aluminum salts and the like. Preferred inorganic salts are the ammonium sodium potassium calcium and magnesium salts. Salts derived from organic bases include but are not limited to salts of primary secondary and tertiary amines substituted amines including naturally occurring substituted amines cyclic amines and basic ion exchange resins such as ammonia isopropylamine trimethylamine diethylamine triethylamine tripropylamine diethanolamine ethanolamine deanol 2 dimethylamino ethanol 2 diethylaminoethanol dicyclohexylamine lysine arginine histidine caffeine procaine hydrabamine choline betaine benethamine benzathine ethylenediamine glucosamine methylglucamine theobromine triethanolamine tromethamine purines piperazine piperidine N ethylpiperidine polyamine resins and the like. Particularly preferred organic bases are isopropylamine diethylamine ethanolamine trimethylamine dicyclohexylamine choline and caffeine.

Often crystallizations produce a solvate of the compound of the invention. As used herein the term solvate refers to an aggregate that comprises one or more molecules of a compound of the invention with one or more molecules of solvent. The solvent may be water in which case the solvate may be a hydrate. Alternatively the solvent may be an organic solvent. Thus the compounds of the present invention may exist as a hydrate including a monohydrate dihydrate hemihydrate sesquihydrate trihydrate tetrahydrate and the like as well as the corresponding solvated forms. The compound of the invention may be true solvates while in other cases the compound of the invention may merely retain adventitious water or be a mixture of water plus some adventitious solvent.

A pharmaceutical composition refers to a formulation of a compound of the invention and a medium generally accepted in the art for the delivery of the biologically active compound to mammals e.g. humans. Such a medium includes all pharmaceutically acceptable carriers diluents or excipients therefor.

 Effective amount or therapeutically effective amount refers to that amount of a compound of the invention which when administered to a mammal preferably a human is sufficient to effect treatment as defined below of a bacterial infection in the mammal preferably a human. The amount of a compound of the invention which constitutes a therapeutically effective amount will vary depending on the compound the condition and its severity the manner of administration and the age of the mammal to be treated but can be determined routinely by one of ordinary skill in the art having regard to his own knowledge and to this disclosure.

 Treating or treatment as used herein covers the treatment of the disease or condition of interest in a mammal preferably a human having the disease or condition of interest and includes 

 i preventing the disease or condition from occurring in a mammal in particular when such mammal is predisposed to the condition but has not yet been diagnosed as having it 

 iv relieving the symptoms resulting from the disease or condition i.e. relieving pain without addressing the underlying disease or condition. As used herein the terms disease and condition may be used interchangeably or may be different in that the particular malady or condition may not have a known causative agent so that etiology has not yet been worked out and it is therefore not yet recognized as a disease but only as an undesirable condition or syndrome wherein a more or less specific set of symptoms have been identified by clinicians.

The compounds of the invention or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts may contain one or more asymmetric centers and may thus give rise to enantiomers diastereomers and other stereoisomeric forms that may be defined in terms of absolute stereochemistry as R or S or as D or L for amino acids. The present invention is meant to include all such possible isomers as well as their racemic and optically pure forms. Optically active and R and S or D and L isomers may be prepared using chiral synthons or chiral reagents or resolved using conventional techniques for example chromatography and fractional crystallization. Conventional techniques for the preparation isolation of individual enantiomers include chiral synthesis from a suitable optically pure precursor or resolution of the racemate or the racemate of a salt or derivative using for example chiral high pressure liquid chromatography HPLC . When the compounds described herein contain olefinic double bonds or other centres of geometric asymmetry and unless specified otherwise it is intended that the compounds include both E and Z geometric isomers. Likewise all tautomeric forms are also intended to be included.

A stereoisomer refers to a compound made up of the same atoms bonded by the same bonds but having different three dimensional structures which are not interchangeable. The present invention contemplates various stereoisomers and mixtures thereof and includes enantiomers which refers to two stereoisomers whose molecules are nonsuperimposeable mirror images of one another.

A tautomer refers to a proton shift from one atom of a molecule to another atom of the same molecule. The present invention includes tautomers of any said compounds.

As noted above in one embodiment of the present invention compounds having antibacterial activity are provided the compounds having the following structure I 

each Rand Ris independently hydrogen or C Calkyl optionally substituted with one or more halogen hydroxyl or amino 

or Rand Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached can form a heterocyclic ring having from 4 to 6 ring atoms or Rand one Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached can form a heterocyclic ring having from 3 to 6 ring atoms or Rand one Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached can form a carbocyclic ring having from 3 to 6 ring atoms 

wherein i at least one of Zand Zis H ii at least one of Rand Ris substituted C Calkyl or at least one Ris halogen hydroxyl or amino and iii the two adjacent CH groups to which Zand Zare attached may optionally form a double bond.

In other further embodiments the two adjacent carbon atoms to which Zand Zare attached form a single bond.

As also noted above in another embodiment of the present invention compounds having antibacterial activity are provided the compounds having the following structure I 

Qis alkyl optionally substituted with one or more halogen hydroxyl amino optionally substituted cycloalkyl or optionally substituted heterocyclyl 

each R R Rand Ris independently hydrogen or C Calkyl optionally substituted with one or more halogen hydroxyl or amino 

or Rand Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached can form a heterocyclic ring having from 4 to 6 ring atoms or Rand one Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached can form a heterocyclic ring having from 3 to 6 ring atoms or Rand one Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached can form a carbocyclic ring having from 3 to 6 ring atoms or Rand Rtogether with the atom to which they are attached can form a heterocyclic ring having from 3 to 6 ring atoms 

each Ris independently hydrogen hydroxyl amino or C Calkyl optionally substituted with one or more halogen hydroxyl or amino 

or Rand one Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached can form a heterocyclic ring having from 3 to 6 ring atoms or Rand one Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached can form a carbocyclic ring having from 3 to 6 ring atoms 

wherein i at least one of Zand Zis H and ii the two adjacent CH groups to which Zand Zare attached may optionally form a double bond.

In other further embodiments Qis alkyl optionally substituted with one or more halogen hydroxyl amino optionally substituted cycloalkyl or optionally substituted heterocyclyl. For example in more specific embodiments of the foregoing Qis unsubstituted or Qis substituted with one or more halogen hydroxyl or amino.

In other further embodiments the two adjacent carbon atoms to which Zand Zare attached form a single bond.

It is understood that any embodiment of the compounds of structure I as set forth above and any specific substituent set forth herein for a Q Q Q R R R R R R R R R R Zand Zgroup in the compounds of structure I as set forth above may be independently combined with other embodiments and or substituents of compounds of structure I to form embodiments of the inventions not specifically set forth above. In addition in the event that a list of substitutents is listed for any particular Q Q Q R R R R R R R R R R Zand Zin a particular embodiment and or claim it is understood that each individual substituent may be deleted from the particular embodiment and or claim and that the remaining list of substituents will be considered to be within the scope of the invention.

For the purposes of administration the compounds of the present invention may be administered as a raw chemical or may be formulated as pharmaceutical compositions. Pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention comprise a compound of structure I and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent or excipient. The compound of structure I is present in the composition in an amount which is effective to treat a particular disease or condition of interest that is in an amount sufficient to treat a bacterial infection and preferably with acceptable toxicity to the patient. The antibacterial activity of compounds of structure I can be determined by one skilled in the art for example as described in the Examples below. Appropriate concentrations and dosages can be readily determined by one skilled in the art.

Compounds of the present invention possess antibacterial activity against a wide spectrum of gram positive and gram negative bacteria as well as enterobacteria and anaerobes. Representative susceptible organisms generally include those gram positive and gram negative aerobic and anaerobic organisms whose growth can be inhibited by the compounds of the invention such as and other organisms.

Administration of the compounds of the invention or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts in pure form or in an appropriate pharmaceutical composition can be carried out via any of the accepted modes of administration of agents for serving similar utilities. The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention can be prepared by combining a compound of the invention with an appropriate pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent or excipient and may be formulated into preparations in solid semi solid liquid or gaseous forms such as tablets capsules powders granules ointments solutions suppositories injections inhalants gels microspheres and aerosols. Typical routes of administering such pharmaceutical compositions include without limitation oral topical transdermal inhalation parenteral sublingual buccal rectal vaginal and intranasal. The term parenteral as used herein includes subcutaneous injections intravenous intramuscular intrasternal injection or infusion techniques. Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention are formulated so as to allow the active ingredients contained therein to be bioavailable upon administration of the composition to a patient. Compositions that will be administered to a subject or patient take the form of one or more dosage units where for example a tablet may be a single dosage unit and a container of a compound of the invention in aerosol form may hold a plurality of dosage units. Actual methods of preparing such dosage forms are known or will be apparent to those skilled in this art for example see 20th Edition Philadelphia College of Pharmacy and Science 2000 . The composition to be administered will in any event contain a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for treatment of a disease or condition of interest in accordance with the teachings of this invention.

A pharmaceutical composition of the invention may be in the form of a solid or liquid. In one aspect the carrier s are particulate so that the compositions are for example in tablet or powder form. The carrier s may be liquid with the compositions being for example an oral syrup injectable liquid or an aerosol which is useful in for example inhalatory administration.

When intended for oral administration pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention typically are either solid or liquid form where semi solid semi liquid suspension and gel forms are included within the forms considered herein as either solid or liquid.

As a solid composition for oral administration the pharmaceutical compositions may be formulated into a powder granule compressed tablet pill capsule chewing gum wafer or the like form. Such a solid composition will typically contain one or more inert diluents or edible carriers. In addition one or more of the following may be present binders such as carboxymethylcellulose ethyl cellulose microcrystalline cellulose gum tragacanth or gelatin excipients such as starch lactose or dextrins disintegrating agents such as alginic acid sodium alginate Primogel corn starch and the like lubricants such as magnesium stearate or Sterotex glidants such as colloidal silicon dioxide sweetening agents such as sucrose or saccharin a flavoring agent such as peppermint methyl salicylate or orange flavoring and a coloring agent.

When the pharmaceutical composition is in the form of a capsule for example a gelatin capsule it may contain in addition to materials of the above type a liquid carrier such as polyethylene glycol or oil.

Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may be in the form of a liquid for example an elixir syrup solution emulsion or suspension. The liquid may be for oral administration or for delivery by injection as two examples. When intended for oral administration pharmaceutical compositions of the invention typically contain in addition to the present compounds one or more of a sweetening agent preservatives dye colorant and flavor enhancer. In a composition intended to be administered by injection one or more of a surfactant preservative wetting agent dispersing agent suspending agent buffer stabilizer and isotonic agent may be included.

Liquid pharmaceutical compositions of the invention whether they be solutions suspensions or other like form may include one or more of the following adjuvants sterile diluents such as water for injection saline solution preferably physiological saline Ringer s solution isotonic sodium chloride fixed oils such as synthetic mono or diglycerides which may serve as the solvent or suspending medium polyethylene glycols glycerin propylene glycol or other solvents antibacterial agents such as benzyl alcohol or methyl paraben antioxidants such as ascorbic acid or sodium bisulfite chelating agents such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid buffers such as acetates citrates or phosphates and agents for the adjustment of tonicity such as sodium chloride or dextrose. Parenteral preparations can be enclosed in ampoules disposable syringes or multiple dose vials made of glass or plastic. Physiological saline is a preferred adjuvant. An injectable pharmaceutical composition is preferably sterile.

A liquid pharmaceutical composition of the invention intended for either parenteral or oral administration should contain an amount of a compound of the invention such that a suitable dosage will be obtained.

Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may be intended for topical administration in which case the carrier may suitably comprise a solution emulsion ointment or gel base. The base for example may comprise one or more of the following petrolatum lanolin polyethylene glycols bee wax mineral oil diluents such as water and alcohol and emulsifiers and stabilizers. Thickening agents may be present in a pharmaceutical composition for topical administration. If intended for transdermal administration the composition may include a transdermal patch or iontophoresis device.

Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may be intended for rectal administration in the form for example of a suppository which will melt in the rectum and release the drug. Compositions for rectal administration may contain an oleaginous base as a suitable nonirritating excipient. Such bases include without limitation lanolin cocoa butter and polyethylene glycol.

Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may include various materials which modify the physical form of a solid or liquid dosage unit. For example the composition may include materials that form a coating shell around the active ingredients. The materials that form the coating shell are typically inert and may be selected from for example sugar shellac and other enteric coating agents. Alternatively the active ingredients may be encased in a gelatin capsule.

Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention in solid or liquid form may include an agent that binds to the compound of the invention and thereby assists in the delivery of the compound. Suitable agents that may act in this capacity include a monoclonal or polyclonal antibody a protein or a liposome.

Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may be prepared in dosage units that can be administered as an aerosol. The term aerosol is used to denote a variety of systems ranging from those of colloidal nature to systems consisting of pressurized packages. Delivery may be by a liquefied or compressed gas or by a suitable pump system that dispenses the active ingredients. Aerosols of compounds of the invention may be delivered in single phase bi phasic or tri phasic systems in order to deliver the active ingredient s . Delivery of the aerosol includes the necessary container activators valves subcontainers and the like which together may form a kit. One skilled in the art without undue experimentation may determine preferred aerosols.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention may be prepared by methodology well known in the pharmaceutical art. For example a pharmaceutical composition intended to be administered by injection can be prepared by combining a compound of the invention with sterile distilled water so as to form a solution. A surfactant may be added to facilitate the formation of a homogeneous solution or suspension. Surfactants are compounds that non covalently interact with the compound of the invention so as to facilitate dissolution or homogeneous suspension of the compound in the aqueous delivery system.

The compounds of the invention or their pharmaceutically acceptable salts are administered in a therapeutically effective amount which will vary depending upon a variety of factors including the activity of the specific compound employed the metabolic stability and length of action of the compound the age body weight general health sex and diet of the patient the mode and time of administration the rate of excretion the drug combination the severity of the particular disorder or condition and the subject undergoing therapy.

Compounds of the invention or pharmaceutically acceptable derivatives thereof may also be administered simultaneously with prior to or after administration of one or more other therapeutic agents. Such combination therapy includes administration of a single pharmaceutical dosage formulation which contains a compound of the invention and one or more additional active agents as well as administration of the compound of the invention and each active agent in its own separate pharmaceutical dosage formulation. For example a compound of the invention and the other active agent can be administered to the patient together in a single oral dosage composition such as a tablet or capsule or each agent administered in separate oral dosage formulations. Where separate dosage formulations are used the compounds of the invention and one or more additional active agents can be administered at essentially the same time i.e. concurrently or at separately staggered times i.e. sequentially combination therapy is understood to include all these regimens.

It is understood that in the present description combinations of substituents and or variables of the depicted formulae are permissible only if such contributions result in stable compounds.

It will also be appreciated by those skilled in the art that in the synthetic processes described herein the functional groups of intermediate compounds may need to be protected by suitable protecting groups. Such functional groups include hydroxy amino mercapto and carboxylic acid. As described above suitable protecting groups for hydroxy include trialkylsilyl or diarylalkylsilyl for example t butyldimethylsilyl t butyldiphenylsilyl or trimethylsilyl tetrahydropyranyl benzyl and the like and suitable protecting groups for amino amidino and guanidino include t butoxycarbonyl benzyloxycarbonyl and the like. Suitable protecting groups for mercapto include C O R where R is alkyl aryl or arylalkyl p methoxybenzyl trityl and the like. Suitable protecting groups for carboxylic acid include alkyl aryl or arylalkyl esters. Protecting groups may be added or removed in accordance with standard techniques which are known to one skilled in the art and as described herein. The use of protecting groups is described in detail in Green T. W. and P. G. M. Wutz 1999 3rd Ed. Wiley. As one of skill in the art would appreciate the protecting group may also be a polymer resin such as a Wang resin Rink resin or a 2 chlorotrityl chloride resin.

It will also be appreciated by those skilled in the art although a protected derivative of compounds of this invention may not possess pharmacological activity as such they may be administered to a mammal and thereafter metabolized in the body to form compounds of the invention which are pharmacologically active. Such derivatives may therefore be described as prodrugs . All prodrugs of compounds of this invention are included within the scope of the invention.

Furthermore compounds of the invention which exist in free base or acid form can be converted to their pharmaceutically acceptable salts by treatment with the appropriate inorganic or organic base or acid by methods known to one skilled in the art. Salts of the compounds of the invention can be converted to their free base or acid form by standard techniques.

The following Examples illustrate various methods of making compounds of this invention i.e. compound of structure I 

As illustrated in the following Examples compounds of the invention may be made according to methods using an intermediate compound having the following structure INT I 

each A is independently phenyl optionally substituted with one or more halogen hydroxyl amino or C Calkyl optionally substituted with one or more halogen hydroxyl or amino.

It has been found that intermediate compounds of structure INT I are useful for the selective modification of neomycin derivatives at the 3 position.

To a stirring solution of the aminoglycoside derivative 0.06 mmol in MeOH 2 mL was added the aldehyde 0.068 mmol silica supported cyanoborohydride 0.1 g 1.0 mmol g and the reaction mixture was heated by microwave irradiation to 100 C. 100 watts power for 15 minutes. The reaction was checked by MS for completeness and once complete all solvent was removed by rotary evaporation. The resulting residue was dissolved in EtOAc 20 ml and washed with 5 NaHCO 2 5 mL followed by brine 5 mL . The organic phase was then dried over NaSO filtered and the solvent was removed by rotary evaporation.

To a solution of aminoglycoside derivative 0.078 mmol in DMF 1 ml were added 3 molecular sieves 15 20 followed by the aldehyde 0.15 mmol and the reaction was shaken for 2.5 hours. The reaction was checked by MS for completeness and if needed more aldehyde 0.5 eq was added. The reaction mixture was then added dropwise to a stirring solution of NaBH 0.78 mmol in MeOH 2 mL at 0 C. and the reaction was stirred for 1 hour. The reaction was diluted with HO 2 mL and EtOAc 2 ml . The organic layer was separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 3 3 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to dryness.

Procedure 2 Boc Deprotection Tert Butyl Dimethyl Silyl Protecting Group is Removed Under these Conditions 

To a stirring solution of the Boc protected aminoglycoside 0.054 mmol in DCM or MeOH 1 mL were added 3 molecular sieves 4 6 and trifluoroacetic acid 0.6 mL . The reaction was stirred at room temperature for 1 h and checked for completeness by MS. Upon completion the reaction mixture was diluted with ether 15 mL to induce precipitation. The vial was centrifuged and the supernatant was decanted. The precipitate was washed with ether 2 15 ml decanted and dried under vacuum.

To a stirring solution of aminoglycoside derivative 0.078 mmol in DMF 1 mL at 40 C. was added the acid 0.16 mmol followed by PyBOP 0.16 mmol and DIPEA 0.31 mmol and the reaction was stirred. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 3 mL and HO 3 mL and the aqueous layer was separated and extracted with EtOAc 3 3 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to dryness.

To a stirring solution of the aminoglycoside derivative 0.06 mmol in MeOH 2 mL was added the epoxide 0.07 mmol LiClO 0.15 mmol and the reaction mixture was heated by microwave irradiation to 100 C. for 90 minutes. The reaction progress was monitored by MS. Upon completion the solvent was removed by rotary evaporation. The resulting residue was dissolved in EtOAc 20 mL washed with HO 2 5 mL and brine 5 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to dryness.

To a stirring solution of the phthalimido protected aminoglycoside 0.064 mmol in EtOH 3 mL was added hydrazine 0.32 mmol and the reaction mixture was heated to reflux for 2 h. The reaction progress was monitored by MS. Upon cooling to room temperature the cyclic by product precipitated and was removed by filtration. The filtrate was concentrated to dryness to yield a residue which was dissolved in EtOAc 20 mL washed with 5 NaHCO 2 5 mL and brine 5 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to dryness.

To a stirring solution of the aminoglycoside 0.067 mmol in DCM 3 mL was added DIPEA 0.128 mol and the sulfonyl chloride 0.07 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature and its progress was monitored by MS. Once complete the solvent was removed by rotary evaporation and the residue was dissolved in ethyl acetate 20 mL washed with 5 NaHCO 2 5 mL and brine 5 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to dryness.

To a stirring solution of the amine 4.64 mmol in THF 10 mL was added 1N NaOH 10 mL followed by Boc anhydride 5.57 mmol and the reaction progress was checked by MS. Once complete the THF was removed by rotary evaporation and water 40 mL was added. The aqueous phase was separated and extracted with EtO 2 30 ml . The aqueous phase was acidified to pH 3 by the addition of dilute HPOand was then extracted with EtOAc 2 60 ml . The combined organic layers were washed with HO 2 30 mL and brine 30 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to dryness.

To a stirring solution of the alkene 5.16 mmol in chloroform 20 mL at 0 C. was added m chloroperbenzoic acid 8.0 mmol and the reaction mixture was stirred for 30 minutes at 0 C. and was then allowed to warm to room temperature. The reaction progress was monitored by MS and TLC and additional portions of m CPBA were added as needed. Upon completion the reaction mixture was diluted with chloroform 50 mL and washed with 10 aq. NaSO 2 30 mL 10 aq. NaHCO 2 50 mL and brine 50 mL . The organic layer was dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to yield a crude product which was purified by flash chromatography silica gel hexanes ethyl acetate 0 25 .

A 50 mL flask equipped with a magnetic stirring bar and drying tube was charged with the ketone or aldehyde 0.010 mmol followed by THF 50 mL trimethylsilyl cyanide 1.39 g 14 mmol and zinc iodide 0.090 g 0.28 mmol and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 24 hr. Solvent evaporation gave a residue which was dissolved in EtOAc 60 mL washed with 5 aq. NaHCO 2 30 mL HO 30 mL and brine 30 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to dryness to yield a crude which was carried through to the next step without further purification.

AcOH 25 ml and conc. HCl 25 ml were added to the unpurified material from step 1 and the reaction mixture was refluxed for 2 3 hr. The reaction mixture was then concentrated to dryness to give a white solid which was carried through to the next step without further purification.

To a stirring solution of solid from step 2 in 2 M NaOH 20 mL and i PrOH 20 mL at 0 C. was added BocO 6.6 g 3 mmol in small portions and the reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature over 4 h. i PrOH was then evaporated and HO 50 mL was added and the aqueous phase was separated and extracted with EtO 2 30 ml . The aqueous layer was acidified to pH 3 by addition of dilute HPOand was extracted with EtOAc 2 60 ml . The combined organic layers were washed with HO 2 30 mL and brine 30 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to yield the desired N Boc hydroxy carboxylic acids in 56 72 yield.

To a stirring solution of the amine 0.049 mol in DCM 100 mL was added DIPEA 16 mL 0.099 mol and the reaction mixture was cooled to 0 C. Fmoc Cl 12.8 g 0.049 mol was then added portion wise over several minutes and the reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature for 2 hr. The organic layer was washed with water 2 50 mL and brine 50 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to dryness to yield the Fmoc protected amine 90 95 yield .

To a vigorously stirring solution of the alcohol 1.54 mmol in DCM 4 mL was added TEMPO 0.007 g 0.045 mmol 0.03 mol and a 2M aqueous KBr solution 75 mL 0.15 mmol 10 mol and the reaction mixture was cooled to 10 C. In a separate flask NaHCO 0.5 g 9.5 mmol was dissolved in bleach 25 mL Chlorox 6.0 NaOCl to yield a 0.78 M buffered NaOCl solution. This freshly prepared 0.78 M NaOCl solution 2.3 mL 1.8 mmol 117 mol was added to the reaction mixture over 5 min and the reaction was stirred for an additional 30 min at 0 C. The organic phase was separated and the aqueous layer was extracted with dichloromethane 2 4 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with 10 aq. NaSO 4 mL sat. aq. NaHCO 2 4 mL brine 5 mL dried over NaSOand concentrated to dryness.

To a stirring solution of the acid 1.5 mmol in THF 5 mL at 10 C. was slowly added 1.0 M BH THF 2.98 mL 2.98 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred vigorously for an additional 3 min at 10 C. and was then allowed to warm to room temperature overnight. The reaction was quenched by the dropwise addition of a solution of HOAc HO 1 1 v v 2.0 mL . The THF was removed by rotary evaporation and sat. aq. NaHCO 15 mL was added. The aqueous layer was extracted with DCM 3 5 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with sat. aq. NaHCO 2 5 mL brine 10 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to dryness.

The substrate olefin 0.5 to 0.75 mmol was dissolved in DCM 30 mL and the reaction was cooled to 78 C. Ozone was bubbled through until a blue color persisted 3 to 5 min and the reaction was stirred for 1 hr. Argon was then bubbled through to remove excess ozone for 10 minutes. The reaction was further quenched by the addition of dimethyl sulfide 10 equiv. and was stirred for 30 min with warming to rt. The solvent was reduced under vacuum to yield the crude aldehyde which was dried under high vacuum for 10 min and used without further purification. To a stirring solution of the aldehyde in THF tBuOH and HO 3 3 2 10 mL was added NaHPO 4 equiv. followed by 2 methyl 2 butene 10 equiv. and sodium chlorite 2 equiv. and the reaction was stirred for 4 hr. The reaction mixture was then added to sat. aq. NaCl 10 mL and extracted with DCM 3 . The combined organic layers were dried over NaSO filtered and reduced under vacuum to yield a crude which was purified by flash chromatography silica gel 0 0.5 or 1 MeOH DCM .

To a stirring solution of aminoglycoside derivative 0.137 mmol in DMF 2 mL at 0 C. was added the acid 0.151 mmol 1.1 eq followed by PyBOP 0.164 mmol 1.2 eq and DIPEA 0.411 mmol 3 eq and the reaction was stirred 1 3 h with warming to room temp until complete by LC MS . The reaction mixture was diluted with AcOH 0.2 mL and was loaded directly onto an HPLC column Method 3 . Fractions were collected neutralized with 1 M NHOH and concentrated. The residue was extracted with EtOAc 3 30 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over NaSO filtered and reduced under vacuum to yield the desired product.

To a stirring solution of the acid 0.15 mmol and N hydroxysuccinimide 0.15 mmol in EtOAc 1.5 mL was added N N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide 0.15 mmol and the reaction mixture was stirred for 1 hr. The resulting white suspension was filtered through cotton washed with EtOAc 3 5 mL and evaporated to dryness under vacuum to yield the activated ester. To a stirring solution of the activated ester in THF 1.5 mL was added NaHCO 1 mmol followed by the aminoglycoside 0.138 mmol and the reaction was stirred for 24 hr. The reaction mixture was quenched with sat. aq. NaHCOand extracted with DCM 3 30 mL . The combined organic layers were dried over NaSO filtered and reduced under vacuum to yield a crude product which was purified by column chromatography silica gel 0 100 Hexanes ethyl acetate over 25 min at 18 mL min fractions containing the desired compound were combined and concentrated in vacuo to yield the desired product.

To a stirring solution of aminoglycoside 0.15 mmol in THF 4 mL was added AcOH 108 L 1.8 mmol followed by 20 Pd OH C 140 mg and the reaction was stirred under a hydrogen atmosphere for 1 h. Then HO 2 mL was added and the reaction mixture was stirred for 1 h. Additional water 2 2 mL was added and the reaction was stirred under a hydrogen atmosphere overnight. The reaction was filtered through a 0.45 m PVDF filter was diluted with water 50 mL and lyophilized to yield the product as its acetate salt.

To a stirring solution of aminoglycoside 0.2 mmol in AcOH HO 5 mL 4 1 v v was added 20 Pd OH C 400 mg and the reaction was stirred under a hydrogen atmosphere overnight. The reaction was filtered through a 0.45 m PVDF filter was diluted with water 50 mL and lyophilized to yield the product as its acetate salt.

To a solution of the aminoglycoside salt 0.074 mmol in HO 1 mL was added 1 M NHOH 400 L to adjust the pH to 7 8 followed by NH SO 0.22 mmol 3 eq. . The resulting solution was filtered through a 0.45 m PVDF filter and the filtrate was dripped into vigorously stirring MeOH 40 mL . After 20 min the precipitate was collected by centrifugation and dried for 1 h under vacuum. The solid was dissolved in HO 1 mL and precipitated with MeOH 40 mL a second time. The resulting precipitate was collected by centrifugation dissolved in HO 3 mL and lyophilized to yield the product as its sulfate salt.

Fractions containing the desired compound were combined and lyophilized. To a stirring solution of the aminoglycoside 0.02 0.05 mmol in HO 0.5 1 mL was added 1 M HSOdropwise until pH 1 2. The solution was filtered through a 0.45 m PVDF filter and the filtrate was dripped into vigorously stirring MeOH 25 30 mL . EtO 10 15 mL was added if needed to improve the quality of thr precipitate . After 20 min the solids were collected by centrifugation and washed with MeOH EtO 1 1 v v 10 mL followed by EtO 10 mL . The resulting precipitate was collected by centrifugation to yield the product as its sulfate salt.

To a stirring solution of 2 S hydroxy 4 amino butyric acid 0.059 g 0.50 mmol in DMF 2 ml was added N N bis benzyloxycarbonyl 1H pyrazole 1 carboxamidine 0.26 g 0.70 mmol followed by DIPEA 0.87 mL 4.99 mmol and the reaction was heated to 80 C. and stirred overnight. The crude mixture was purified on a 2 inch reverse phase HPLC column Method 2 to yield N N bis Cbz 2 S hydroxy 4 guanidino butyric acid MS m z M H calcd. 430.15. found 430.1.

To a solution of benzyl N 2 aminoethyl carbamate chloride salt 1 540 mg 2.34 mmol in sat. aq. NaHCO 45 mL was added 1 M NaOH 15 mL and the reaction was stirred vigorously. DCM 30 mL was added followed by benzoylperoxide 1.13 g 4.68 mmol and the reaction was stirred overnight. The organic layer was separated and washed with brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated to a crude which was purified on a 1 inch reverse phase HPLC column Method 2 to yield benzyl 2 benzoyloxyamino ethyl carbamate 2 252 mg 0.80 mmol 34.2 MS m z M H calc. 315.13 obs. 315.0.

To a stirring solution of disuccinimidyl carbonate 525 mg 2.05 mmol in CHCN 16 mL was added benzyl 2 benzoyloxyamino ethyl carbamate 2 252 mg 0.80 mmol as a solution in CHCN 12 mL over 4 hours and the reaction was stirred overnight. Additional disuccinimidyl carbonate 251 mg 0.98 mmol was added and the reaction was heated at 60 C. overnight. Solvent removal gave a crude which was purified on a 2 inch reverse phase HPLC column Method 2 to yield succinimidyl benzoyloxy 2 Cbz aminoethyl carbamate 3 81 mg 0.18 mmol 22.5 yield .

To a stirring solution of 3 Boc amino 1 propanol 25 mL 0.144 mol in water saturated DCM 1.0 L was added Dess Martin reagent 99.2 g 233.9 mmol and the reaction mixture was stirred for 1 hour. The reaction was then diluted with ether 1.0 L followed by a solution of NaSO 250 g in 80 NaHCO 450 g in 1.0 L HO . The reaction was stirred vigorously for 30 minutes until two layers formed the top layer was clear. The reaction was filtered to remove the precipitated solids and the aqueous layer was extracted with ether 1.0 L . The organic layer was washed with sat. NaHCO 1.0 L HO 1.0 L and brine 1 L dried over NaSOand concentrated to a clear oil. The crude oil was dissolved in EtOAc hexanes 1 1 v v 1.0 L and filtered through a short silica gel column to yield the desired N Boc 3 amino propanal 21.7 g 0.125 mol 85.6 yield H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 9.77 s 1H CHO 4.85 bs 1H NH 3.36 3.42 m 2H CH 2.67 t 2H CH 1.39 s 9H CH .

N Boc 4 Methylene piperidine 0.222 g 1.12 mmol was submitted to Procedure 8 to form the desired N Boc 1 oxa 6 azaspiro 2.5 octane 0.215 g 1.01 mmol 90.2 yield H NMR 250 MHz DMSO d 3.29 3.61 m 6H 1.56 1.70 m 2H 1.30 1.54 m 11H .

To a stirring solution of 5 bromo pentene 6.0 g 0.040 mol in DMF 30 mL was added KCO 4.7 g 0.034 mol and potassium phthalimide 6.21 g 0.033 mmol and the reaction mixture was heated at 100 C. for 1 hr. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and water 50 mL was added. The aqueous layer was then extracted with ethyl acetate 2 50 mL and the combined organic layers were washed with 5 aq. NaHCO 2 20 mL brine 30 mL and dried over NaSO. Filtration and solvent evaporation gave an oil which was purified by flash chromatography silica gel hexanes ethyl acetate 0 35 to yield the desired 2 pent 4 enyl isoindoline 1 3 dione as a solid 6.36 g 0.029 mmol 72.5 yield MS m e calcd 216.1. found 216.1 NMR 250 MHz DMSO d 7.79 7.95 m 4H 5.70 5.91 m 1H 4.90 5.11 m 2H 3.58 t 2H 1.98 2.10 m 2H 1.59 1.78 m 2H .

2 Pent 4 enyl isoindoline 1 3 dione 6.36 g 0.029 mmol was submitted to Procedure 8 for epoxide formation to yield 2 3 oxiran 2 yl propyl isoindoline 1 3 dione 5.8 g 0.025 mmol 86.2 yield MS m e M H calcd 232.1. found 232.1 H NMR 250 MHz DMSO d 7.75 7.90 m 4H Ar 3.52 t 2H CH 2.87 2.96 m 1H CH 2.70 t 1H 2.30 2.45 m 1H 1.36 1.80 m 4H .

3 Buten 1 amine 4.93 g 0.069 mol was submitted to Procedure 7 for Boc protection to yield a crude which was purified by flash chromatography silica gel hexanes ethyl acetate 0 30 to yield N Boc 1 amino but 3 ene 6.47 g 0.038 mol 55.1 yield .

N Boc 1 amino but 3 ene 6.47 g 0.038 mol was submitted to Procedure 8 for epoxide formation to yield a crude which was purified by flash chromatography silica gel hexanes ethyl acetate 0 45 to yield N Boc 2 oxiran 2 yl ethyl carbamate 6.0 g 0.032 mol 84.2 yield H NMR 250 MHz DMSO d 2.98 3.09 m 2H 2.83 2.92 m 1H 2.65 t 1H 2.42 dd 1H 1.44 1.66 m 2H 1.36 s 9H CH .

To a stirring solution of 3 methylene 1 cyano cyclobutane 2.5 g 0.026 mol in THF 35 ml at 0 C. was slowly added 2M LiAlH 22 mL 0.044 mmol and the reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature. The reaction was then quenched by the addition of sat. aq. NHCl 10 mL and THF 10 mL . The organic layer was separated and concentrated to dryness to yield a residue which was dissolved in ethyl acetate 100 mL . The organic layer was washed with 5 NaHCO 2 20 mL brine 20 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to yield the desired 3 methylene 1 methylamino cyclobutane as an oil which was carried through to the next step without further purification.

To a stirring solution of 3 methylene 1 methylamino cyclobutane 2.52 g 0.026 mol in 1N NaOH 15 ml and THF 15 mL was added BocO 6.7 g 0.030 mol and the reaction mixture was stirred overnight. THF was evaporated and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 40 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with 5 NaHCO 2 20 mL brine 20 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to dryness to yield a crude which was purified by flash chromatography silica gel hexanes ethyl acetate 0 60 to yield the desired 3 methylene 1 N Boc methylamino cyclobutane 1.9 g 0.0096 mol 36.9 yield H NMR 250 MHz DMSO d 6.88 bs 1H 4.72 s 2H 2.95 3.05 m 2H 2.56 2.71 m 2H 2.21 2.40 m 3H 1.20 s 9H .

3 Methylene 1 N Boc methylamino cyclobutane 1.9 g 0.0096 mol was submitted to Procedure 8 for epoxide formation to yield N Boc 1 oxaspiro 2.3 hexan 5 yl methanamine 1.34 g 6.27 mol 65.3 yield H NMR 250 MHz DMSO d 2.99 3.10 m 2H 2.60 2.66 m 2H 1.99 2.47 m 5H 1.40 s 9H .

4 Amino butyraldehyde diethyl acetal 8.0 g 0.050 mol was Fmoc protected following Procedure 10 to give the desired N Fmoc 4 amino butyraldehyde diethyl acetal 22.08 g MS m e M Na calcd 406.2. found 406.1 which was carried through to the next step without further purification.

To a stirring solution of N Fmoc 4 amino butyraldehyde diethyl acetal 0.050 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 100 mL was added aq. HCl 100 ml 1 1 v v HO conc. HCl and the reaction progress was monitored by MS. Upon completion the organic solvent was removed by rotary evaporation and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 200 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with 5 NaHCO 2 75 mL brine 75 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to dryness to yield the desired N Fmoc 4 amino butyraldehyde 15.35 g 0.049 mol 90.0 yield which was carried through to the next step without further purification MS m e M Na calcd 332.1. found 332.0.

To a stirring solution of KOH 70.0 g 1.25 mol in EtOH HO 500 mL 1 1 v v was added 3 methylenecyclobutane carbonitrile 25.0 g 0.26 mol and the reaction mixture was refluxed for 6 h. The reaction progress was monitored by TLC and upon completion the mixture was cooled and acidified to pH 3 4 with HCl. The ethanol was evaporated and the remaining aqueous layer was extracted with EtO 200 mL . The organic layer was washed with water 2 20 mL brine 30 ml dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to dryness to yield 3 methylene cyclobutane carboxylic acid which was carried through to the next step without further purification H NMR 250 MHz CDCl 10.75 bs 1H 4.80 s 2H 2.85 3.26 m 5H .

To a stirring solution of 3 methylene cyclobutane carboxylic acid 1.0 g 8.9 mmol in THF 90 mL was added NaN 2.0 g 31.1 mmol followed by tetrabutyl ammonium bromide 0.48 g 1.5 mmol and Zn OTf 0.1 g 0.3 mmol and the reaction mixture was heated to 40 C. BocO 2.1 g 9.8 mmol was then added at once and the reaction was heated at 45 C. overnight. The reaction was then cooled to 0 C. and was quenched with 10 aq. NaNO 180 mL . The THF was evaporated and the aqueous layer was extracted with EtOAc 180 mL . The organic layer was washed with 5 aq. NaHCO 2 20 mL brine 30 ml dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to dryness to yield a crude which was purified by flash chromatography silica gel hexanes ethyl acetate 0 90 to yield the desired N Boc 3 methylene cyclobutanamine 0.57 g 3.1 mmol 34.9 yield H NMR 250 MHz CDCl 4.83 s 2H 4.79 bs 1H 4.05 4.23 m 1H 2.92 3.11 m 2H 2.50 2.65 m 2H 1.44 s 9H .

N Boc 3 methylene cyclobutanamine 1.65 g 9.0 mmol was submitted to Procedure 8 for epoxide formation to yield N Boc 1 oxaspiro 2.3 hexan 5 amine 1.46 g 7.33 mmol 81.5 yield H NMR 250 MHz CDCl 4.79 bs 1H 4.13 4.31 m 1H 2.66 2.83 m 4H 2.31 2.47 m 2H 1.45 s 9H .

N Boc 3 amino 2 2 dimethyl propanol 0.415 g 2.04 mmol was submitted to Procedure 11 to yield N Boc 2 2 dimethyl 3 amino propionaldehyde 0.39 g 1.94 mmol 95.1 yield H NMR 250 MHz CDCl 9.42 s 1H 4.80 bs 1H 3.11 d 2H 1.39 s 9H 1.06 s 6H .

N Boc 3 amino 3 cyclopropyl propanol 0.130 g 0.60 mmol was submitted to Procedure 11 for oxidation to the corresponding N Boc 3 amino 3 cyclopropyl propionaldehyde which was carried through to the next step without further purification.

4 S tert Butyl dimethylsilyloxy N Boc pyrrolidin 2 R methanol 0.50 g 1.50 mmol was submitted to Procedure 11 for oxidation to the corresponding 4 S tert butyldimethylsilyloxy N Boc pyrrolidin 2 R carboxaldehyde which was carried through to the next step without further purification.

3 tert Butyldimethylsilyloxy propanol 0.50 g 2.62 mmol was submitted to Procedure 11 for oxidation to the corresponding 3 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy propanal which was carried through to the next step without further purification.

2 Methyl N Boc 2 amino propanol 0.83 g 4.38 mmol was submitted to Procedure 11 for oxidation to the corresponding 2 methyl N Boc 2 amino propanal 0.706 g 3.77 mmol 86.1 yield H NMR 250 MHz CDCl 9.40 s 1H 1.57 s 1H 1.41 s 9H 1.30 s 6H .

1 Amino cyclobutane carboxylic acid ethyl ester 1.0 g 6.28 mmol was dissolved in 1N HCl 10 mL and the reaction was heated to a reflux for 2 hours. The reaction mixture was then concentrated to dryness to yield a crude which was submitted to Procedure 7 for Boc protection to yield the desired N Boc 1 Amino cyclobutane carboxylic acid.

N Boc 1 amino cyclobutane carboxylic acid 6.28 mmol was submitted to Procedure 12 for reduction to the corresponding N Boc 1 Amino cyclobutyl methanol.

N Boc 1 amino cyclobutyl methanol 0.25 g 1.24 mmol was submitted to Procedure 11 to yield the corresponding N Boc 1 amino cyclobutane carboxaldehyde 0.24 g 1.20 mmol 96.8 yield H NMR 250 MHz CDCl 9.0 s 1H 4.91 bs 1H 3.74 bs 2H 1.71 2.20 m 4H 1.42 s 9H .

N N diBoc 4 S amino pyrrolidine 2 S carboxylic acid 1.03 g 3.12 mmol was submitted to Procedure 12 to yield the corresponding N N diBoc 4 S amino 2 S methanol pyrrolidine 0.605 g 1.91 mmol 61.2 yield which was carried through to the next step without further purification.

N N diBoc 4 S amino 2 S methanol pyrrolidine 0.486 g 1.53 mmol was submitted to Procedure 11 for oxidation to the corresponding N N diBoc 4 S amino pyrrolidine 2 S carbaldehyde which was carried through to the next step without further purification.

N Boc 1 aminomethyl cyclopropane carboxylic acid 1.0 g 4.64 mmol was submitted to Procedure 12 to yield the corresponding N Boc 1 aminomethyl cyclopropyl methanol 0.99 g MS m e M H calcd 202.1. found 202.1 which was carried through to the next step without further purification.

N Boc 1 aminomethyl cyclopropyl methanol 0.87 g 4.32 mmol was submitted to Procedure 11 for oxidation to the corresponding N Boc 1 aminomethyl cyclopropane carboxaldehyde which was carried through to the next step without further purification.

N Boc 1 amino cyclopropane carboxylic acid 0.25 g 1.24 mmol was submitted to Procedure 12 to yield the corresponding N Boc 1 amino cyclopropyl methanol 0.051 g 0.27 mmol 21.8 yield which was carried through to the next step without further purification.

N Boc 1 amino cyclopropyl methanol 0.051 g 0.27 mmol was submitted to Procedure 11 for oxidation to the corresponding N Boc 1 amino cyclopropane carboxaldehyde which was carried through to the next step without further purification.

To a stirring solution of N Boc 1 R amino 2 S hydroxy cyclopentane 4 S carboxylic acid methyl ester 0.622 g 2.40 mmol in DCM 1.9 mL was added imidazole 0.164 g 2.41 mmol DMAP 0.047 g 0.35 mmol and TBSCl 0.363 g 2.40 mmol and the reaction was stirred at room temperature for 18 hours followed by heating at 40 C. for 1 hour. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and was quenched with HO 3 mL . The organic layer was separated and was concentrated to dryness to yield a residue which was dissolved in isopropanol 6 mL and 1M NaOH 2.9 mL and the reaction was heated at 60 C. for 1 hour. The reaction was cooled to 0 C. and slowly acidified to pH 3 with 1M HCl 3 mL . After adding chloroform 18 mL the organic layer was separated dried over NaSO and concentrated to dryness to yield the desired acid 0.75 g 2.09 mmol 87.1 yield .

N Boc 1 R amino 2 S tert butyldimethylsilyloxy cyclopentane 4 S carboxylic acid 0.53 g 1.47 mmol was submitted to Procedure 12 for reduction to the corresponding N Boc 1 R amino 2 S tert butyldimethylsilyloxy 4 S hydroxymethyl cyclopentane 0.44 g 1.27 mmol 86.4 yield H NMR 250 MHz CDCl 4.69 4.79 m 1H 4.08 4.13 m 1H 3.88 bs 1H 3.52 3.61 m 2H 2.16 2.30 m 2H 1.96 2.14 m 2H 1.48 1.53 m 2H 1.47 s 9H 0.91 s 9H 0.09 s 6H .

N Boc 1 R amino 2 S tert butyldimethylsilyloxy 4 S hydroxymethyl cyclopentane 0.44 g 1.27 mmol was submitted to Procedure 11 for oxidation to the corresponding N Boc 1 R amino 2 S tert butyldimethylsilyloxy cyclopentane 4 S carboxaldehyde 0.42 g 1.22 mmol 96.1 yield .

To a stirring solution of N Boc 3 azetidinone 0.45 g 2.64 mmol in THF 5 mL was slowly added a 0.5 M solution of 2 tert butoxy 2 oxoethyl zinc chloride in EtO 10 mL 5.0 mmol and the reaction mixture was stirred for 5 h. The reaction was then quenched with sat. aq. NHCl 10 mL and the aqueous layer was separated and extracted with ethyl acetate 2 30 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with 5 aq. NaHCO 2 10 mL brine 15 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to dryness to yield tert butyl 2 N Boc 3 hydroxy azetidin 3 yl acetate MS m e M H calcd 288.2. found 287.7 .

To a stirring solution of tert butyl 2 N Boc 3 hydroxy azetidin 3 yl acetate 0.86 g 2.99 mmol in dioxane 18 mL was added 3M HCl 5 mL and the mixture was heated at 70 C. for 1 h. The reaction mixture was then cooled to 0 C. and it was basified with 2 M NaOH 8 mL followed by addition of BOCO 1.0 g 4.6 mmol . The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature for 2 h and was then concentrated to half its total volume on the rotary evaporator. Isopropanol 3 mL and chloroform 12 mL were then added and the mixture was cooled to 0 C. and slowly acidified to pH 3 with 1M HCl. The organic layer was then separated dried over NaSO and concentrated to dryness to yield 2 N Boc 3 hydroxy azetidin 3 yl acetic acid 0.65 g 2.81 mmol 94.0 yield .

2 N Boc 3 hydroxy azetidin 3 yl acetic acid 0.44 g 1.90 mmol was submitted to Procedure 12 for reduction to yield the corresponding N Boc 3 2 hydroxy ethyl azetidin 3 ol 0.29 g 1.33 mmol 70.0 yield .

N Boc 3 2 hydroxy ethyl azetidin 3 ol 0.29 g 1.33 mmol was submitted to Procedure 11 for oxidation to the corresponding 2 N Boc 3 hydroxy azetidin 3 yl acetaldehyde which was carried through to the next step without further purification.

N Boc azetidine 3 carboxylic acid 1.94 g 9.64 mmol was submitted to Procedure 12 for reduction to the corresponding N Boc 3 hydroxymethyl azetidine which was carried through to the next step without further purification.

N Boc 3 hydroxymethyl azetidine 9.64 mmol was submitted to Procedure 11 for oxidation to the desired N Boc azetidine 3 carboxaldehyde which was carried through to the next step without further purification.

Molecular sieves 4 4 g were added to a round bottom flask and were activated by heating with a Bunsen burner under high vacuum. DCM 100 mL was then added and the flask was cooled to 35 C. with a cryocooler. Titanium tetraisopropoxide 1.75 mL 5.95 mmol and R R diisopropyl tartrate 1.65 mL 7.75 mmol were added and the reaction was stirred for 30 min Penta 1 4 dienol 5 g 59.4 mmol and excess cumene hydroperoxide 80 17.5 mL were added in small portions and stirring was continued at 35 C. for 48 hr. The reaction was quenched by addition of sat. aq. NaSO 5 mL immediately followed by EtO 50 mL and the reaction was stirred for 2 hr with warming to rt. The reaction mixture was filtered through Celite and washed with EtO. Solvent removal under vacuum without heating resulted in approximately 30 mL of a yellow solution. Excess cumene alcohol and hydroperoxide were removed by flash chromatography silica gel 40 EtO hex . Finally solvent removal under vacuum without heating yielded a mixture of 2S 3R 1 2 epoxy 4 penten 3 ol 1 Rf 0.47 1 1 EtOAc hex and diisopropyl tartrate Rf 0.6 which was used in the next step without further purification.

To a stirring solution of epoxide 1 in THF 100 mL under an argon atmosphere was added tetrabutylammonium iodide 2.2 g 5.96 mmol followed by benzyl bromide 8.6 mL 71.9 mmol and the reaction was cooled to 15 C. Sodium hydride 60 in mineral oil 2.65 g 66.1 mmol was added in small portions and the reaction was stirred overnight with warming to rt. The reaction was quenched with MeOH filtered through Celite and washed with EtO. Solvent removal gave an oily residue which was purified by flash chromatography silica gel 5 10 EtO hex to yield 2S 3R 1 2 epoxy 3 benzyloxy 4 pentene 2 as a clear non volatile liquid 5.3 g 47.6 yield Rf 0.69 1 4 EtOAc hex 36.7 c 1.52 CHCl HRMS ESI M H calc. for CHO191.1067 obs. 191.1064 H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.38 7.33 m 5H 5.92 5.78 m 1H 5.41 5.39 m 1H 5.37 5.33 m 1H 4.66 d J 11.95 Hz 1H 4.49 d J 11.96 Hz 1H 3.83 dd J 7.34 4.20 Hz 1H 3.10 dt J 4.07 4.06 2.70 Hz 1H 2.79 dd J 5.21 4.00 Hz 1H 2.70 dd J 5.23 2.64 Hz 1H . C NMR CDCl 100 MHz 138.32 134.67 128.56 2C 127.87 2C 127.82 119.73 79.54 70.83 53.41 45.00.

NaN 3.38 g 52 mmol and NHCl 2.78 g 52 mmol in HO 10 mL were heated until a clear solution was obtained. This solution was then added dropwise to a solution of 2S 3R 1 2 epoxy 3 benzyloxy 4 pentene 2 3.3 g 17.4 mmol in MeOH 200 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred for 4 days. The organic solvent was removed under vacuum and the aqueous layer was extracted with DCM 3 . The combined organic layers were dried over NaSO filtered and reduced under vacuum to yield a crude which was purified by flash chromatography silica gel 10 20 EtO hex to yield 2S 3R 1 azido 3 benzyloxy 4 penten 2 ol 3 2.66 g 66 yield as a non volatile clear liquid Rf 4.8 1 4 EtOAc hex HRMS ESI M Na calc. for CHNO256.1056 obs. 256.1057 46.3 c 1.50 CHCl H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.42 7.28 m 5H 5.91 5.76 m 1H 5.46 dd J 17.16 1.42 Hz 1H 5.42 dd J 24.00 1.37 Hz 1H 4.65 d J 11.67 Hz 1H 4.39 d J 11.67 Hz 1H 3.88 3.80 m 2H 3.44 3.40 m 2H 2.22 d J 3.60 Hz 1H C NMR CDCl 100 MHz 137.88 134.60 128.66 2C 128.08 2C 128.05 121.40 81.39 72.61 70.70 53.0 FTIR NaCl 3435 2870 2102 1642 1454 1070 cm.

To a stirring solution of DAST 900 L 6.87 mmol in benzene 3.2 mL and pyridine 400 L in a plastic container at 10 C. was added 2S 3R 1 azido 3 benzyloxy 4 penten 2 ol 3 750 mg 3.21 mmol in small portions and the reaction was stirred at this temperature for 48 hr followed by 6 hr at rt. The reaction mixture was slowly added to sat. aq. NaHCO 20 mL at 0 C. and was stirred for 10 min. The resulting aqueous mixture was extracted with DCM 3 and the combined organic layers were washed with 2 N HCl dried over MgSO filtered and reduced under vacuum to yield a crude which was purified by flash chromatography silica gel 1 EtO hex to yield 3R 4R 5 azido 4 fluoro 3 benzyloxy pent 1 ene 4 128 mg 16.9 yield as a nonvolatile clear liquid Rf 0.63 1 9 EtOAC Hex 11.9 c 1.50 CHCl H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.44 7.29 m 5H 4.63 dddd J 47.64 7.07 4.99 3.32 Hz 1H 5.49 5.42 m 2H 4.70 d J 11.95 Hz 1H 4.57 ddd J 7.07 4.99 3.32 Hz 1H 4.44 d J 11.90 Hz 1H 4.03 ddd J 16.87 7.57 5.04 Hz 1H 3.64 3.52 m 1H 3.45 ddd J 27.45 13.63 3.27 Hz 1H . F NMR CDCl 282 MHz 196.66 dddd J 47.27 27.08 19.84 16.89 Hz C NMR CDCl 100 MHz 137.80 133.09 d J 5.30 Hz 128.70 2C 128.09 3C 121.04 93.33 d J 181.54 Hz 79.08 d J 20.39 Hz 70.92 51.46 d J 22.25 Hz . FTIR NaCl 2930 2104 1643 1454 1281 1115 1069 cm.

 3R 4R 5 azido 4 fluoro 3 benzyloxy pent 1 ene 4 128 mg 0.543 mmol was submitted to Procedure 13 followed by recrystallization from hot hexanes 2 to yield 2R 3R 4 azido 2 benzyloxy 3 fluorobutanoic acid 5 120 mg 90 56.9 c 0.68 CHCl HRMS ESI negative mode M H calc. for CHFNO252.0790 obs. 252.0782 H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 10.55 s 1H 7.46 7.34 m 5H 4.98 dddd J 46.40 7.57 4.91 2.92 Hz 1H 4.94 d J 11.47 Hz 1H 4.55 d J 11.51 Hz 1H 4.17 dd J 27.26 2.86 Hz 1H 3.77 dt J 13.89 13.66 7.27 Hz 1H 3.42 ddd J 24.28 13.20 4.92 Hz 1H F NMR CDCl 376 MHz 198.36 dddd J 46.28 27.22 24.46 14.15 Hz C NMR CDCl 100 MHz 174.63 d J 4.21 Hz 136.37 129.15 2C 129.07 128.98 2C 91.53 d J 182.59 Hz 76.40 d J 19.90 Hz 73.96 s 50.87 d J 25.13 Hz FTIR NaCl 3151 2098 1753 1407 1283 1112 cm.

Starting from penta 1 4 dienol 5 g 59.4 mmol and using S S diisopropyl tartrate under the same reaction conditions as described above the enantiomer ent 2 was obtained 4.9 g 43 yield 35.7 c 1.76 CHCl . 2R 3S 1 2 Epoxy 3 benzyloxy 4 pentene ent 2 3.9 g 20.5 mmol was submitted to the same reaction conditions described above to yield the enantiomer 2R 3S 1 azido 3 benzyloxy 4 penten 2 ol ent 3 2.75 g 57 yield 47.3 c 1.30 CHCl . 2R 3S 1 Azido 3 benzyloxy 4 penten 2 ol ent 3 500 mg 2.14 mmol was submitted to the same reactions as described above to yield the enantiomer 3S 4S 5 azido 4 fluoro 3 benzyloxy pent 1 ene ent 4 75.5 mg 0.32 mmol 15 yield 10.7 c 1.50 CHCl which was submitted to the same reaction conditions as described above to yield ent 5 59 mg 73 yield 58.6 c 0.73 CHCl .

To a stirring solution of DMSO 690 L 9.65 mmol in DCM 25 mL at 78 C. was added oxalyl chloride 3.21 mL of a 2.0 M solution in DCM 6.43 mmol and the reaction was stirred for 1 hr. A solution of 2S 3R 1 azido 3 benzyloxy 4 penten 2 ol 1 750 mg 3.21 mmol in DCM 1 mL was added dropwise and the reaction mixture was stirred for 1 hr at 78 C. N Methyl morpholine 1.41 mL 12.9 mmol was added dropwise and the reaction was stirred at 15 C. for 2 hr. The reaction was quenched with phosphate buffer 0.1 M pH 6.0 and the aqueous layer was separated. The organic layer was washed with the phosphate buffer 3 dried over NaSO filtered and reduced under vacuum to give a brown residue. The residue was dissolved in EtO dried over MgSO filtered through a cotton plug and reduced under vacuum to yield the crude ketone which was dissolved in DCM 1 mL and was added to a stirring solution of DAST 2 mL 15.3 mmol in DCM 3 mL in a plastic vial at 25 C. The reaction was allowed to slowly warm to rt and was stirred for 48 hr. The reaction mixture was then slowly poured into stirring sat. aq. NaHCO 20 mL at 0 C. and was stirred for 10 min. The resulting aqueous mixture was extracted with DCM 3 and the combined organic layers were dried over NaSO filtered and reduced under vacuum to yield a crude which was purified by flash chromatography silica gel 1 EtO hex followed by preparative TLC purification silica gel 0.5 mm 5 EtO hex to yield R 5 azido 4 4 difluoro 3 benzyloxy pent 1 ene 2 193 mg 0.76 mmol 24 yield as a non volatile clear liquid Rf 0.72 1 4 EtOAc hex 23.8 c 1.52 CHCl H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.44 7.31 m 5H 5.89 dddd J 16.88 10.61 7.11 0.62 Hz 1H 5.59 5.56 m 1H 5.53 d J 10.74 Hz 1H 4.71 d J 11.67 Hz 1H 4.50 d J 11.66 Hz 1H 4.14 td J 14.25 7.13 7.13 Hz 1H 3.64 tq J 13.67 13.67 13.67 11.19 11.19 Hz 2H F NMR CDCl 282 MHz 116.63 dtd J 257.62 13.91 13.90 8.72 Hz 111.27 dtd J 257.59 16.18 16.16 7.04 Hz C NMR CDCl 75 MHz 137.14 130.33 t J 3.06 3.06 Hz 128.71 2C 128.27 128.20 2C 122.78 120.69 dd J 249.89 246.83 Hz 78.87 dd J 30.35 25.35 Hz 71.48 d J 0.48 Hz 51.47 dd J 30.26 25.92 Hz FTIR NaCl 2928 2108 1455 1292 1091 cm.

 R 5 Azido 4 4 difluoro 3 benzyl oxy pent 1 ene 2 193 mg 0.76 mmol was submitted to Procedure 13 followed by washing with cold hexanes 3 at 20 C. to yield 3 139 mg 67.6 yield 32.4 c 0.80 CHCl HRMS ESI negative mode M H for CHFNO270.0696 obs. 270.06924 H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.46 7.32 m 5H 6.48 s 1H 4.84 d J 11.30 Hz 1H 4.67 d J 11.30 Hz 1H 4.37 dd J 12.23 9.78 Hz 1H 3.75 dd J 14.67 12.35 Hz 2H F NMR CDCl 376 MHz 112.61 qd J 260.95 12.30 12.29 12.29 Hz 109.68 dtd J 260.79 14.75 14.68 9.94 Hz C NMR CDCl 100 MHz 170.84 135.48 129.01 128.94 2C 128.78 2C 119.59 t J 251.58 251.58 Hz 76.56 dd J 29.86 27.24 Hz 74.34 51.58 dd J 28.94 26.76 Hz . FTIR NaCl 3337 2929 2112 1738 1455 1292 1210 1119 cm.

 2R 3S 1 Azido 3 benzyloxy 4 penten 2 ol ent 1 500 mg 2.14 mmol was submitted to the same reaction conditions described above to yield S 5 azido 4 4 difluoro 3 benzyloxy pent 1 ene ent 2 114 mg 21 yield 27.9 c 3.14 CHCl . Ent 2 75.5 mg 0.32 mmol was submitted to Procedure 13 to yield S 4 azido 2 benzyloxy 3 3 difluorobutanoic acid ent 3 34.8 mg 43 yield 36.4 c 0.80 CHCl .

To a stirring solution of 2S 3R 1 azido 3 benzyloxy 4 penten 2 ol 1 250 L 1.07 mmol in THF 50 mL under argon was added tetrabutylammonium iodide 42 mg 0.11 mmol followed by benzyl bromide 155 L 1.27 mmol and the reaction was cooled to 0 C. Sodium hydride 60 in mineral oil 47 mg 1.18 mmol was added in small portions and the reaction was stirred overnight with warming to rt. The reaction was quenched with MeOH filtered through Celite and washed with EtO. The organic solvent was removed under vacuum to give an oily residue which was purified by flash chromatography silica gel 2 EtO hex to yield 3R 4S 5 azido 3 4 bisbenzyloxy pent 1 ene 2 237 mg 65 yield as a clear non volatile liquid Rf 0.62 1 4 EtOAc hex 6.1 c 1.50 CHCl H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.35 7.24 m 10H 5.81 ddd J 17.15 10.58 7.45 Hz 1H 5.37 ddd J 5.70 1.65 0.86 Hz 1H 5.33 ddd J 12.07 1.44 0.81 Hz 1H 4.63 s 2H 4.61 d J 11.87 Hz 1H 4.35 d J 11.78 Hz 1H 3.90 tdd J 7.37 5.65 0.79 0.79 Hz 1H 3.60 ddd J 6.39 5.69 3.64 Hz 1H 3.43 dd J 12.93 6.42 Hz 1H 3.35 dd J 12.93 3.60 Hz 1H C NMR CDCl 75 MHz 138.25 138.01 135.43 128.60 4C 128.29 2C 128.02 127.99 2C 127.87 119.97 80.76 80.23 73.33 70.79 51.69 FTIR NaCl 2867 2100 1606 1454 1286 1095 1073.

 3R 4S 5 azido 3 4 bis benzyloxy pent 1 ene 2 237 mg 0.69 mmol was submitted to Procedure 13 to yield 2S 3S 4 azido 2 3 bis benzyloxybutanoic acid 3 187.7 mg 75 yield 15.1 c 1.05 CHCl FIRMS ESI negative mode M H calc. for CHNO340.1303 obs. 340.1296 H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.24 s 1H 7.38 7.33 m 10H 4.79 d J 11.61 Hz 1H 4.66 s 2H 4.56 d J 11.61 Hz 1H 4.20 d J 4.24 Hz 1H 3.98 td J 6.56 4.30 4.30 Hz 1H 3.58 dd J 13.04 6.62 Hz 1H 3.42 dd J 13.04 4.31 Hz 1H C NMR CDCl 75 MHz 175.57 137.92 137.34 129.44 2C 129.36 2C 129.15 129.04 2C 128.98 2C 128.94 79.71 77.651 74.04 73.89 51.65 FTIR NaCl 3000 2918 2103 1722 1455 1284 1110 cm.

 2R 3S 1 azido 3 benzyloxy 4 penten 2 ol ent 1 250 mg 1.07 mmol was submitted to the same reaction conditions as described above to yield 3S 4R 5 azido 3 4 bis benzyloxy pent 1 ene ent 2 322 mg 59 yield 7.9 c 1.50 CHCl . Ent 2 178 mg 0.55 mmol was submitted to Procedure 13 to yield ent 3 144 mg 77 yield 15.2 c 0.81 CHCl .

A 2 L three necked round bottomed flask equipped with a reflux condenser was charged with epoxide 1 60 g 315 mmol phthalimide 69.6 g 473 mmol pyridine 5.1 mL 63.1 mmol 20 mol and IPA 600 mL and the resulting solution was stirred at 80 82 C. for 8 hrs. The reaction mixture was then cooled to ambient temperature and concentrated on a rotatory evaporator to dryness. The residue was adsorbed on silica gel 100 g dried under high vacuum and then purified by flash column chromatography on silica gel 10 40 MTBE heptanes to afford the desired phthalimide protected amino alcohol 2 as a white solid 73.5 g 69 H NMR CDCl 500 MHz 7.83 7.82 m 2H 7.71 7.69 m 2H 7.32 7.31 m 4H 7.28 7.25 m 1H 5.91 ddd J 17.4 10.5 7.6 Hz 1H 5.46 5.40 m 2H 4.65 d J 11.7 Hz 1H 4.40 d J 11.7 Hz 1H 3.99 3.97 m 1H 3.95 3.90 m 2H 3.86 dd J 14.0 3.3 Hz 1H 2.61 d J 6.5 Hz 1H .

A 2 L three necked round bottomed flask equipped with an addition funnel an overhead mechanical stirrer and a nitrogen inlet outlet was charged with a solution of alcohol 2 70 g 208 mmol in anhydrous tetrahydrofuran 840 mL . The solution was cooled to 10 to 15 C. then BuNI 7.66 g 20.8 mmol 10 mol was charged into the reactor followed by benzyl bromide 29.6 mL 249 mmol . The resulting solution was stirred for 20 min then sodium hydride 9.2 g 228 mmol 1.1 equiv 60 mineral oil dispersion was added to the batch in portions such that the batch temperature was maintained at 10 to 15 C. Once the addition of sodium hydride was complete the reaction mixture was stirred for additional 30 min and then brought to ambient temperature and further stirred for 18 h. The reaction was quenched with aqueous NaHCO 280 mL while maintaining the reaction mixture at 5 to 0 C. ice bath . The reaction mixture was then diluted with MTBE 1.4 L mL and the phases separated. The organic layer was washed with water 2 210 mL brine 210 mL dried MgSO filtered and concentrated to obtain the crude product as an oil. The crude product was purified by flash column chromatography on silica gel 5 25 MTBE heptanes to obtain the desired product 3 as a semi solid 75.7 g 85 H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.75 7.74 m 2H 7.67 7.66 m 2H 7.34 7.21 m 5H 7.15 7.13 m 2H 7.07 7.02 m 3H 5.98 5.91 m 1H 5.43 s 1H 5.39 td J 5.9 1 Hz 1H 4.66 dd J 12.0 5.7 Hz 2H 4.49 d J 12.0 Hz 1H 4.44 d J 11.8 Hz 1H 3.95 3.89 m 3H 3.77 3.72 m 1H .

A solution of alkene 3 30 g 70.2 mol in DCM 1.8 L was sparged with ozone at 99 . The two lots of crude aldehyde were combined and subjected to the Pinnick oxidation without further purification.

The crude aldehyde 4 30.1 g was taken into a mixture of tetrahydrofuran tBuOH and water 226 mL 226 mL 151 mL 3 3 2 along with NaHPO 33.7 g 281 mmol and 2 methyl 2 butene 149 mL 1.4 mol . The solution was cooled 15 5 C. water bath . Sodium chlorite 12.7 g 140 mmol was added to the batch and the resulting solution was stirred at ambient temperature for 4 hr. The completion of the reaction was confirmed by TLC analysis 1 1 MTBE heptanes and 5 MeOH in DCM . The reaction was then quenched with brine 602 mL and the product extracted into DCM 3 602 mL . The organic layers were dried MgSO concentrated under reduced pressure to obtain the crude acid 5 as a thick oil 42.5 g 99 . The synthesis was repeated on 30.1 g scale of 4 to afford crude acid 5 44.2 g 99 . The both lots of crude acids were combined and purified by flash column chromatography over silica 5 100 MTBE heptanes . Fractions containing the acid were combined and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford acid 5 as a white solid 29.1 g 47 R 0.39 5 95 MeOH DCM H NMR CDCl 500 MHz 7.76 dd J 6.8 3.7 Hz 2H 7.68 dd J 5.5 3.0 Hz 2H 7.35 7.34 m 2H 7.31 7.26 m 3H 7.18 7.16 m 2H 7.11 7.05 m 3H 4.75 d J 11 Hz 1H 4.65 d J 12.8 2H 4.59 d J 11.9 Hz 1H 4.22 d J 3.65 1H 4.17 m 1H 4.08 dd J 14.3 6.8 Hz 1H 3.86 dd J 14.3 4.7 Hz 1H .

A round bottomed flask equipped with a magnetic stirring bar and a thermocouple probe was charged with a solution of phthalimide protected amino acid 5 29.0 g 65.1 mmol in THF 350 mL . To the clear yellow solution was added deionized water 175 mL and the resulting mixture cooled to 5 C. Methylamine solution in water 58.0 mL 40 wt 665 mmol was then added to the batch which was warmed to ambient temperature 21 23 C. and stirred for 26 hours. Analysis of an aliquot from the reaction mixture by LCMS indicated the reaction was complete. The reaction mixture was then concentrated in vacuo to a yellow solid residue removing all excess methylamine. The residue was taken up in THF 700 mL and water 350 mL cooled to 0 5 C. and to the crude amino acid solution was added potassium carbonate 45 g 326 mmol followed by benzylchloroformate 17.2 mL 114 mmol . The batch was warmed to ambient temperature and the reaction allowed to proceed for 28 hours. Analysis of an aliquot at this time point by LCMS indicated a complete conversion of the amino acid to the carbamate. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to remove most of THF the aqueous residue was diluted with water 320 mL and the pH adjusted with 2N HCl to approximately pH 5 pH paper strip . The crude product was extracted with methylene chloride 3 500 mL the extracts washed with water 60 mL brine 60 mL dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo to a yellow oil 40.34 g which was purified by flash column chromatography on silica gel 400 g elution with 0 5 MeOH in CHCl to afford compound 6 as a yellow oil 27.5 g 92 yield over two steps . H NMR DMSO d6 500 MHz 12.93 s 1H 7.36 7.23 m 16H 5.01 s 2H 4.63 d J 11.8 Hz 1H 4.56 dd J 22.9 11.7 Hz 2H 4.45 d J 11.7 Hz 1H 4.14 d J 4.0 Hz 1H 3.81 td J 7.3 4.1 Hz 1H 3.31 3.24 m 2H .

A 3 neck 5 liter round bottomed flask equipped with an overhead mechanical stirrer a thermocouple probe and a nitrogen inlet outlet was charged with powdered freshly activated molecular sieves 4 84 g 0.8 wt. equiv followed by anhydrous dichloromethane 2.1 L 20 vol . The resulting suspension was cooled to approximately 42 C. using an acetonitrile CObath then titanium tetraisopropoxide 37 mL 0.125 mol 10 mol was charged into the batch followed by S S diisopropyl tartrate 35 mL 0.166 mol 13.3 mol . The reaction mixture was stirred for 30 minutes then divinyl alcohol 1 105 g 1.25 mol 1.0 equiv was added over 3 minutes using an addition funnel minor exotherm 2 C. . Cumene hydroperoxide 370 mL 80 titer 1.99 mol 1.59 equiv was then added to the batch over 5 minutes using an addition funnel 10 C. exotherm . The reaction was allowed to proceed for 18 hours holding the temperature between 45 and 30 C. When complete as determined by TLC analysis R0.42 for divinyl alcohol and 0.18 for epoxy alcohol 50 MTBE in Heptanes the reaction was quenched with saturated aqueous sodium sulfate 105 mL 1 vol diluted with MTBE 1.05 L 10 vol and the batch allowed to warm to ambient temperature with vigorous stirring. Diatomaceous earth Celite 105 g 1 wt. equiv was added to the batch which was then filtered through a pad of Celite . The filter cake was washed with MTBE 0.5 L and the filtrate concentrated in vacuo on a rotary evaporator with water bath held at 10 20 C. to afford a yellow brownish oil. A portion of the crude product 311 g was subjected to silica plug 1 kg silica gel using 0 60 MTBE petroleum ether. The fractions containing the product were collected and concentrated to obtain a colorless oil 48.3 g . This material was then purified via column chromatography 300 g silica gel 5 30 MTBE petroleum ether to afford ent 2 as a clear liquid 22.6 g 36 overall mass recovery R 0.59 1 1 MTBE petroleum ether H NMR CDCl 500 MHz 5.85 ddd J 17.0 10.5 6.2 Hz 1H 5.40 dt J 17.3 1.3 Hz 1H 5.27 dt J 10.5 1.3 Hz 1H 4.36 4.33 m 1H 3.10 ddd J 3.8 3.8 3.0 Hz 1H 2.81 dd J 2.9 5.0 Hz 1H 2.76 dd 4.1 5.0 Hz 1H 2.07 d J 3.0 Hz 1H .

The reaction was carried out at 20 g scale of alcohol following a literature procedure 2009 74 15 5758 5761 . A 2 L round bottomed flask equipped with a mechanical stirrer a thermocouple probe and an addition funnel was charged with a solution of epoxy alcohol ent 2 20 g 200 mmol 1 equiv in tetrahydrofuran 400 mL 20 vol along with PhP 105 g 400 mmol 2 equiv and 4 nitrobenzoic acid 67 g 400 mmol 2 equiv under a nitrogen atmosphere. DIAD 81 g 400 mmol 2 equiv was added to the reaction mixture using an addition funnel while maintaining the reaction mixture at 0 C. ice bath . Once the addition of DIAD was complete the cold bath was removed and the reaction mixture was allowed to come to ambient temperature 23 C. . The reaction mixture was stirred for 1.5 h all starting material consumed and then quenched with aqueous NaHCOsolution 100 ml 5 vol followed by the addition of MTBE 1000 mL 50 vol . The resulting solution was transferred into a separatory funnel. Brine 100 mL 5 vol was added to obtain phase separation. The organic phase was washed with brine 2 20 vol dried MgSO and concentrated under vacuum to obtain an oil 296 g . The oil was passed through a silica plug 1 kg using 10 20 MTBE heptanes. The crude solid 46 g was then dissolved into MTBE 20 vol and washed with NaHCO 3 5 vol water 2 2 vol brine 2 2 vol dried MgSO concentrated and further dried to obtain the benzoate ester as a white solid 29 g 59 R 0.56 1 1 MTBE heptanes H NMR CDCl 500 MHz 8.35 d J 10.8 Hz 2H 8.25 d J 10.8 Hz 2H 5.97 ddd J 17.2 10.6 6.2 Hz 1H 5.48 td J 17.3 1.2 Hz 1H 5.40 td J 10.7 1.1 Hz 1H 5.34 dd J 5.0 1.3 Hz 1H 3.31 ddd J 6.5 4.1 2.6 Hz 1H 2.93 dd J 4.2 4.2 Hz 1H 2.76 dd J 4.8 2.6 Hz 1H .

The hydrolysis of the benzoate ester was carried out following the literature procedure 2009 74 15 5758 5761 . Thus solution of the ester 22.7 g 91 mmol 1 equiv in methanol 340 mL 15 vol was treated with an aqueous solution of KCO 13.8 g 100 mmol 1.1 equiv in 34 mL 1.5 vol water at 10 15 C. The solution immediately turned into a thick slurry. The slurry was stirred at ambient temperature 23 C. for 3 h starting material consumed . The reaction mixture was concentrated on a rotary evaporator at ambient water bath temperature to 2 vol 45 mL . The thick solution was then reslurried in DCM 454 mL 20 vol . The slurry was filtered and the solids were washed with DCM 2 5 vol 2 114 mL . The combined organic filtrate was dried MgSO filtered and concentrated to obtain a solid 31 g . The crude material was then purified by column chromatography silica gel 10 30 MTBE petroleum ether to obtain the desired alcohol 3 as a clear oil 9.24 g quantitative yield R 0.31 1 1 MTBE heptanes H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 5.94 ddd J 16.2 10.6 5.5 1H 5.40 d J 17.3 Hz 1H 5.26 d J 10.6 Hz 1H 4.0 t J 5.3 Hz 1H 3.07 m 1H 2.84 t J 4.8 Hz 1H 2.77 2.74 m 1H 2.57 br s 1H .

A 1 L three necked round bottomed flask equipped with an addition funnel an overhead mechanical stirrer a nitrogen inlet outlet was charged with alcohol 3 9.24 g 92.3 mmol 1 equiv in anhydrous tetrahydrofuran 166 mL 18 vol . The solution was cooled to 10 to 15 C. The catalyst BuNI 3.41 g 9.23 mmol 10 mol was charged into the reactor followed by benzyl bromide 19.1 g 112 mmol 1.2 equiv . The resulting solution was stirred for 20 min. Sodium hydride 4.1 g 1.1 equiv 60 mineral oil dispersion was then added to the batch in portions such that the batch temperature was maintained at 10 to 15 C. Once the addition of sodium hydride was complete the reaction mixture was stirred for an additional 30 min and then the cold bath was removed and reaction mixture brought up to ambient temperature and further stirred for 18 h. The reaction was quenched with aqueous NaHCO 37 mL 4 vol while maintaining the temperature at 5 to 0 C. ice bath . The resulting solution was diluted with MTBE 185 mL 20 vol the organic layer was washed with water 2 18 mL 2 3 vol brine 1 18 mL 1 3 vol dried MgSO filtered and concentrated under reduced pressure to obtain crude product as an oil. The synthesis was repeated on 1.98 g scale of alcohol 3. The crude from both the reactions were combined and purified via column chromatography silica gel column 2.5 10 MTBE heptanes to obtain the desired benzylated product 4 as an oil 13.96 g 65 R 0.61 3 7 MTBE heptanes H NMR CDCl 500 MHz 7.36 7.32 m 4H 7.29 7.26 m 1H 5.83 ddd J 17.3 10.5 6.7 1H 5.36 td J 17.3 1.4 Hz 1H 5.31 td J 10.5 1.2 Hz 1H 4.63 ABq J 12.0 Hz 2H 3.62 ddd J 1H 3.11 3.08 m 1H 2.78 t J 4.4 Hz 1H 2.60 dd J 5.0 2.7 Hz 1H .

A 250 mL round bottomed flask equipped with a reflux condenser was charged with alcohol 4 10 g 52.5 mmol 1 equiv phthalimide 11.6 g 78.8 mmol 1.5 equiv pyridine 0.85 mL 10.5 mmol 20 mol and IPA 100 mL 10 vol and the resulting solution was stirred at 80 82 C. for 8 hrs. The reaction mixture was then cooled to ambient temperature and concentrated on a rotatory evaporator to dryness. The residue was adsorbed on silica gel 20 g dried under high vacuum and then purified by flash column chromatography on silica gel 10 40 MTBE heptanes to afford the desired phthalimide protected amino alcohol 5 as a white tacky solid 15.85 g 89 R 0.34 1 1 MTBE heptanes H NMR DMSO d 500 MHz 7.84 7.82 m 4H 7.36 7.31 m 4H 7.28 7.25 m 1H 5.93 ddd J 17.5 10.5 10.1 Hz 1H 5.38 5.35 m 2H 5.12 d J 5.5 Hz 1H 4.53 d J 11.9 Hz 1H 4.40 d J 11.9 Hz 1H 3.98 dddd J 9.0 4.5 4.5 4.5 Hz 1H 3.86 dd J 5.8 4.6 Hz 1H 3.67 dd J 13.7 8.9 Hz 1H 3.59 dd J 13.7 4.4 Hz 1H .

A 1 L three necked round bottomed flask equipped with an addition funnel an overhead mechanical stirrer and a nitrogen inlet outlet was charged with a solution of alcohol 5 15 g 44.5 mmol 1 equiv in anhydrous tetrahydrofuran 270 mL 18 vol . The solution was cooled to 10 to 15 C. then BuNI 1.64 g 4.45 mmol 10 mol was charged into the reactor followed by benzyl bromide 9.2 g 53.8 mmol 1.2 equiv . The resulting solution was stirred for 20 min then sodium hydride 1.97 g 1.1 equiv 60 mineral oil dispersion was added to the batch in portions such that the batch temperature was maintained at 10 to 15 C. Once the addition of sodium hydride was complete the reaction mixture was stirred for an additional 30 min and then brought to ambient temperature and further stirred for 18 h. The reaction was quenched with aqueous NaHCO 60 mL 4 vol while maintaining the reaction mixture at 5 to 0 C. ice bath . The reaction mixture was then diluted with MTBE 300 mL 20 vol and the phases separated. The organic layer was washed with water 2 45 mL 2 3 vol brine 1 45 mL 1 3 vol dried MgSO filtered and concentrated to obtain the crude product as an oil. The synthesis was repeated on 1.75 g scale of alcohol 5. The combined crude products from both reactions were purified by flash column chromatography on silica gel 5 25 MTBE heptanes to obtain the desired product 6 as a semi solid 15.1 g 71 R 0.61 1 1 MTBE heptanes H NMR CDCl 300 MHz 7.74 7.71 m 2H 7.67 7.64 m 2H 7.37 7.27 m 5H 7.10 7.07 m 2H 6.98 6.93 m 3H 5.97 ddd J 17.5 10.4 10.0 Hz 1H 5.42 d J 4.38 Hz 1H 5.38 s 1H 4.68 dd J 12.3 12.3 Hz 2H 4.45 d J 5.37 Hz 1H 4.41 d J 5.58 Hz 1H 3.99 3.82 m 3H 3.65 dd J 13.6 3.2 Hz 1H .

The crude aldehyde 7 14.06 g was taken into a mixture of tetrahydrofuran tBuOH and water 105 mL 105 mL 70 mL 3 3 2 20 vol along with NaHPO 15.6 g 130 mmol 4 equiv and 2 methyl 2 butene 34.4 mL 324 mmol 10 equiv . The solution was cooled 15 5 C. water bath . Sodium chlorite 3.9 g 43 mmol 1.33 equiv was added to the batch and the resulting solution was stirred at ambient temperature for 4 hr. The completion of the reaction was confirmed by TLC analysis 1 1 MTBE heptanes and 5 MeOH in DCM . The reaction was then quenched with brine 280 mL 20 vol and the product extracted into DCM 3 280 mL 3 20 vol . The organic layers were dried MgSO concentrated under reduced pressure to obtain the crude acid as a thick oil. The crude acid was purified by flash column chromatography over silica 5 100 MTBE heptanes followed by 5 20 MeOH DCM . Fractions containing the acid were combined and concentrated under reduced pressure to afford acid 8 as a white solid 2.64 g 18 R 0.33 5 95 MeOH DCM H NMR CDCl 500 MHz 7.78 dd J 5.5 3.0 Hz 2H 7.70 dd J 5.5 3.0 Hz 2H 7.43 7.40 m 2H 7.37 7.29 m 3H 7.20 7.19 m 2H 7.14 7.11 m 2H 7.09 7.05 m 1H 4.76 d J 11 Hz 1H 4.65 dd J 10.9 9.4 Hz 2H 4.55 d J 11.8 Hz 1H 4.13 ddd J 6.2 6.2 3.1 Hz 1H 4.1 d J 3.0 Hz 1H 3.98 dd J 14.2 6.2 Hz 1H 3.89 dd J 14.2 6.2 Hz 1H .

A round bottomed flask equipped with a magnetic stirring bar and a thermocouple probe was charged with a solution of phthalimide protected amino acid 8 2.5 g 5.61 mmol 1.0 equiv in THF 28 mL 11 vol bulk solvent grade . To the clear yellow solution was added deionized water 15 mL 6 vol and the resulting mixture cooled to 5 C. Methylamine solution in water 5.0 mL 40 wt 56.1 mmol 10 equiv was then added to the batch which was warmed to ambient temperature 21 23 C. and stirred for 22.5 hours. Analysis of an aliquot from the reaction mixture by LCMS indicated the reaction was complete. The reaction mixture was then concentrated in vacuo to a yellow solid residue removing all excess methylamine. The residue was taken up in THF 60 mL 24 vol and water 30 mL 12 vol cooled to 0 5 C. and to the crude amino acid solution was added potassium carbonate 3.9 g 28.26 mmol 5.0 equiv followed by benzylchloroformate 1.4 mL 9.81 mmol 1.75 equiv . The batch was warmed to ambient temperature and the reaction allowed to proceed for 25.5 hours. Analysis of an aliquot at this time point by LCMS indicated a complete conversion of the amino acid to the carbamate. The reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure to remove most of THF the aqueous residue was diluted with water 30 mL 12 vol and the pH adjusted with 2N HCl to approximately pH 5 pH paper strip . The crude product was extracted with chloroform 3 60 mL the extracts washed with water 1 60 mL and with aqueous NaCl 1 60 mL dried MgSO and concentrated in vacuo to a yellow mobile oil 3.52 g which was purified by flash column chromatography on silica gel 50 wt. equiv elution with 0 5 MeOH in CHCl to afford 9 as a yellow oil which partially solidified upon further drying under high vacuum 2.22 g 88.1 yield over two steps . H NMR DMSO 500 MHz 12.92 s 1H 7.43 7.23 m 15H 5.04 s 2H 4.67 d J 11.10 Hz 1H 4.58 d J 11.10 Hz 1H 4.48 d J 11.05 Hz 1H 4.42 d J 11.05 Hz 1H 4.09 d J 2.95 Hz 1H 3.96 ddd J 6.30 6.30 3.15 Hz 1H 3.29 dd J 6.30 6.30 2H .

A solution of ester 1 4.00 g 34.4 mmol and triethylamine 4.79 mL 34.4 mmol in anhydrous dichloromethane 170 mL was cooled to 0 C. under nitrogen and tert butyldimethylsilyltrifluoromethane sulfonate 8.31 mL 36.2 mmol was added dropwise. The resulting solution was stirred vigorously at reflux for 4 h. The solvent was then carefully evaporated the residue was dissolved in EtO 170 mL and the organic phase was washed with water 3 50 mL . The organic phase was dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with 0 20 diethyl ether hexanes to afford 2 4.89 g 62 as a clear oil H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 5.50 d J 1.0 Hz 1H 4.85 d J 1.0 Hz 1H 4.21 q J 7.0 Hz 2H 1.31 t J 7.0 Hz 3H 0.95 s 9H 0.16 s 6H .

A mixture of ethyl 2 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy acrylate 2 500 mg 2.17 mmol and Cu acac 0.011 g 0.043 mmol was heated at 80 C. A solution of tert butyl diazoacetate 463 mg 3.25 mmol in benzene 5 mL was added to the reaction mixture over 2 h. After this time the reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with 0 10 diethyl ether hexanes to afford both diastereomers 3a 0.119 g 16 and 3b 0.235 g 31 as clear oils. 3a H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 4.25 4.13 m 2H 2.28 dd J 7.5 2.0 Hz 1H 1.73 dd J 7.5 2.0 Hz 1H 1.59 dd J 9.5 4.0 Hz 1H 1.46 s 9H 1.29 t J 7.5 Hz 3H 0.90 s 9H 0.18 s 3H 0.12 s 3H ESI MS m z 367 M Na 3b H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 4.23 dq J 11.0 7.0 Hz 1H 4.13 dq J 11.0 7.0 Hz 1H 2.11 dd J 10.0 1.5 Hz 1H 1.85 dd J 5.5 2.5 Hz 1H 1.43 s 9H 1.54 dd J 10.0 4.0 Hz 1H 1.28 t J 7.5 Hz 3H 0.86 s 9H 0.19 s 3H 0.18 s 3H ESI MS m z 367 M Na .

A mixture of dicarboxylate 3a and 3b 0.385 g 1.12 mmol 1 2 ratio of 3a 3b trifluoroacetic acid 0.43 mL and dichloromethane 0.5 mL was stirred overnight at room temperature. The solids were filtered and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with 0 100 diethyl ether hexanes to afford both diastereomers 4a 0.050 g 15 and 4b 0.078 g 24 as off white solids. 4a H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 4.25 4.17 m 2H 2.38 dd J 7.5 1.5 Hz 1H 1.81 1.76 m 2H 1.30 t J 7.0 Hz 3H 0.90 s 9H 0.21 s 3H 0.13 s 3H ESI MS m z 289 M H 4b H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 4.22 q J 7.0 Hz 1H 2.21 dd J 10.0 1.5 Hz 1H 1.93 dd J 8.0 2.0 Hz 1H 1.52 dd J 6.0 3.5 Hz 1H 1.28 t J 7.0 Hz 3H 0.87 s 9H 0.19 s 3H 0.17 s 3H ESI MS m z 287 M H .

A mixture of 2 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy 2 ethoxycarbonyl cyclopropanecarboxylic acid 4b 0.335 g 1.16 mmol in toluene 5 mL under nitrogen was treated with H nig s base 0.260 mL 1.51 mmol and the mixture was cooled to 0 C. After this time DPPA 0.324 mL 1.51 mmol was added and the mixture was heated at 90 C. for 30 min followed by the addition of benzyl alcohol 0.155 mL 1.51 mmol . After 15 h the mixture was cooled diluted with ethyl acetate 75 mL and washed sequentially with 10 citric acid 2 50 mL water 50 mL and saturated NaHCO 50 mL . The organic phase was dried MgSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel chromatography eluting with 10 EtOAc hexanes to 100 EtOAc to afford the title compound as a clear oil 0.146 g 30 H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.34 7.30 m 5H 5.40 5.38 m 1H 5.21 5.00 m 2H 4.29 4.18 m 2H 4.16 4.09 m 1H 1.50 1.47 m 2H 1.30 t J 7.2 Hz 3H 0.88 s 9H 0.26 0.07 m 6H Multimode APCI ESI MS m z 295 M H .

To a solution of ethyl 2 benzyloxycarbonylamino 1 tert butyldimethylsilyloxy cyclopropanecarboxylate 1.45 g 3.69 mmol in THF 35 mL under Nwas added HF.pyridine 1.0 mL 38 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred for 5 h. After this time additional HF.pyridine 1.0 mL 38 mmol was added and stirring was continued for 19 h. The reaction mixture was then cooled to 0 C. and diluted with EtO 150 mL . The mixture was then carefully quenched with saturated aqueous NaHCOuntil gas evolution ceased. At this time the organic layer was separated and the remaining aqueous layer was extracted with EtO 300 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with brine 200 mL dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. Purification by silica gel chromatography eluting with 20 50 EtOAc hexanes afforded the title compound 0.960 g 93 H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 7.34 7.30 m 5H 5.11 4.83 m 3H 4.21 q J 7.2 Hz 2H 3.37 3.25 m 2H 1.73 1.68 m 1H 1.27 t J 7.2 Hz 3H 1.14 1.06 m 1H ESI MS m z 280 M H .

To a 0 C. solution of ethyl 2 benzyloxycarbonylamino 1 hydroxycyclopropanecarboxylate 6b 12.5 g 44.7 mmol in THF 100 mL was added KCO 24.7 g 179.0 mmol as a solution in HO 300 mL . The reaction was allowed to warm to room temperature and stirred for 4 h and then additional HO 200 mL was added. After stirring an additional 18 h at room temperature the reaction was concentrated to remove most of the THF. The remaining aqueous solution was washed with EtO 2 500 mL acidified with 2 N HCl to pH 2 and then extracted with EtOAc 5 200 mL . The combined EtOAc layers were washed with brine 500 mL dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford the title compounds 7.75 g 69 as a mixture of diastereomers. The mixture was triturated with EtO to afford a white solid as mostly the major diastereomers. The supernatant was concentrated and then triturated with EtO to afford a clean mixture of both diastereomers. Major Diastereomer H NMR 300 MHz MeOD 7.50 7.14 m 5H 5.22 4.96 m 2H 3.23 3.10 m 1H 1.60 dd J 8.9 6.3 Hz 1H 1.10 t J 6.2 Hz 1H Multimode APCI ESI MS m z 250 M H . Mixture of Diastereomers H NMR 300 MHz MeOD 7.45 7.14 m 5H 5.24 5.01 m 2H 3.25 3.15 m 0.46H 3.14 3.01 m 0.54H 1.71 1.53 m 1H 1.42 dd J 9.1 6.4 Hz 0.54H 1.12 t J 6.2 Hz 0.46H Multimode APCI ESI MS m z 250 M H .

To a stirring solution of paromomycin sulfate 1 76 g 84 mmol in HO 209 mL and THF 1084 mL at 0 C. was added an aqueous solution of sodium carbonate 254 mL 218 mmol 0.86 M followed by the dropwise addition of benzyl chloroformate 120 mL 840 mmol . NaHCO 70.6 g 840 mmol was then added and the reaction was stirred for 3 hr. The organic layer was separated and concentrated to about 800 mL diluted with EtOAc 400 mL and dripped into hexane 9 L . The resulting precipitate is collected by filtration to yield 2 69.85 g 54.36 mmol 65 MS m z calcd for CHNO M Na 1308.48. found 1308.6.

Zinc chloride 59.2 g 434 mmol was dissolved in benzaldehyde 440 mL 4344 mmol to give a yellow solution and the reaction was stirred for 5 min. A solution of 2 69.85 g 54.3 mmol in benzaldehyde 440 mL was then added and the reaction was stirred for 7 hr. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 2 L and washed with 0.1M EDTA disodium salt dihydrate 3 2 L HO 2 L brine 2 L dried over NaSO concentrated to about 900 mL and dripped into EtO hexane 1 1 4 L . The resulting precipitate was collected by filtration and dried under vacuum to yield 3 93.41 g 63.94 mmol 118 MS m z calcd for CHNO M Na 1484.54. found 1484.7.

To a stirring suspension of sodium hydride dry 95 9.64 g 382 mmol in DMA 501 mL at 10 C. was added a solution of 3 93 g 63.6 mmol in DMA 500 mL and the reaction was stirred for 4 hours. The reaction was quenched with acetic acid 100 mL and stirred for 30 minutes. The reaction mixture was then diluted with EtOAc 2 L and washed with NaHCO 2 2 L HO 2 2 L brine 2 L dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to a yellow brown solid which was purified by flash chromatography silica gel MeOH DCM to yield 4 30 g 22.17 mmol 35 MS m z calcd for CHNO M Na 1376.5. found 1376.7.

To a stirring solution of 4 30 g 22.15 mmol in pyridine 201 mL was added DMAP 2.71 g 22.15 mmol followed by TBDPS Cl 65.4 mL 255 mmol and the reaction was heated at 80 C. for 6 days. The reaction mixture was dripped into EtO hexane 1 1 9 L and the resulting precipitate was collected by filtration and redissolved in THF 130 mL and MeOH 40 mL . This solution was then dripped into EtO hexane 1 1 9 L and the resulting precipitate was collected by filtration and dried under vacuum. The white solid was dissolved in ethyl acetate 600 mL washed with 1M citric acid 2 500 mL brine 500 mL NaHCO 2 500 mL brine 500 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to yield 5 36.45 g 19.93 mmol 90 MS m z calcd for CHNOSi M Na 1852.7. found 1852.8.

To a stirring solution of 5 5 g 2.73 mmol in DMA 49.6 mL was added 1 thiocarbonyldiimidazole 4.53 g 25.4 mmol and the reaction was heated at 40 C. for 18 hours. The reaction was diluted with ethyl acetate 100 mL washed with 1M citric acid 3 100 mL brine 3 100 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to an orange foam which was purified by flash chromatography silica gel DCM MeOH to yield compound 6 4.5 g 2.32 mmol 85 MS m z calcd for CHNOSi1962.7 M Na . found 1962.8.

To a stirring solution of 6 1.85 g 0.953 mmol in dioxane 68.1 mL was added tris trimethylsilyl silane 0.882 mL 2.86 mmol followed by AIBN 0.063 g 0.381 mmol and the reaction was heated at 80 C. for 2 hours. The reaction was diluted with ethyl acetate 50 mL washed with sat. aq. NaHCO 50 mL brine 50 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to yield compound 7 3 g 0.953 which was carried through to the next step without further purification. MS m z calcd for CHNOSi1836.7 M Na . found 1837.0.

To a stirring solution of 7 3.911 g 2.155 mmol in acetic acid 50 mL was slowly added a solution of TFA 0.385 mL 5.00 mmol in water 6.94 mL and the reaction was heated at 50 C. for 90 minutes. The reaction was cooled to 0 C. and was quenched with DIPEA 1.746 mL 10.00 mmol . The reaction mixture was then diluted with ethyl acetate 100 mL washed with water 100 mL brine 100 mL sat. aq. NaHCO 2 100 mL brine 100 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to a crude which was purified on a 2 inch reverse phase HPLC Method 2 to yield compound 8 1 g 0.58 mmol 27 MS m z calcd for CHNOSi1748.7 M Na . found 1748.8.

To a stirring solution of 8 1 g 0.58 mmol in pyridine 19.3 mL was added p toluenesulfonyl chloride 0.883 g 4.64 mmol and the reaction was stirred for 7 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate 50 mL washed with 1M citric acid 2 50 mL water 50 mL brine 50 mL sat aq. NaHCO 2 50 mL brine 50 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to a crude which was purified on a 2 inch reverse phase HPLC column Method 2 to yield 9 0.558 g 0.297 mmol 57 MS m z calcd for CHNOSSi1902.7 M Na . found 1902.8.

To a stirring solution of 9 0.5 g 0.266 mmol in DMPU 8.8 mL was added sodium azide 0.172 g 2.658 mmol and the reaction was heated at 70 C. for 3 hours. The reaction was diluted with ethyl acetate 50 mL washed with brine water 1 1 50 mL water 2 50 mL brine 50 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to yield compound 10 0.480 g 0.266 mmol MS m z calcd for CHNOSi1773.7 M Na . found 1773.7.

To a stirring solution of 10 0.462 g 0.264 mmol in THF 2.64 mL was added TBAF 2.64 mL 2.64 mmol and the reaction was stirred for 1 hour at room temperature and at 40 C. for 5 hours. The reaction was diluted with ethyl acetate 50 mL washed with sat. aq. NaHCO 50 mL sat. aq. NHCl 50 mL brine 50 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to a white foam which was triturated with hexane 3 30 ml to yield compound 11 0.371 g 0.264 mmol MS m z calcd for CHNO1271.5 M Na . found 1271.5.

To a stirring solution of neomycin sulfate 1 120 g 0.130 mole in HO 430 mL was added a solution of KCO 63 g 0.456 mole 3.5 eq. in HO 700 mL followed by THF 1.46 L . To this vigorously stirred biphasic solution was added drop wise over 30 min a solution of Cbz succinimide 292 g 1.174 mole in THF 820 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred for 18 hr. The reaction was quenched with the addition of 3 dimethylamino propylamine 148 mL 1.174 mole and diluted with EtOAc 1 L and HO 1 L . The reaction mixture was partitioned between EtOAc 1 L and 1M citric acid 2 L brine 1 L . The aqueous layer was diluted with brine 500 mL and extracted with EtOAc 500 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with 1 M citric acid 1 L brine 500 mL . The organic layer was then stirred with saturated NaHCO 2 L and HO 600 mL until off gassing ceased. The layers were partitioned and the organic layer was washed with sat. NaHCO 1 L brine 2 L dried over NaSO concentrated to 660 mL and dripped into vigorously stirring EtO 5.5 L . The resulting precipitate was dried under high vacuum for 72 hours at 30 C. to yield 2 172 g 0.121 mmol 93 yield as a white solid MS m z calcd for CHNO M H 1418.5. found 1418.9.

To a stirring solution of per Cbz neomycin B 2 50 g 35.2 mmol in benzaldehyde 2000 ml 19.7 mol was added aluminum chloride 30.5 g 229 mmol and the reaction mixture turned from yellow to dark orange with an increase in the internal temperature from 22 C. to 27 C. After 45 min the reaction mixture was poured into vigorously stiffing ice sat NHCl 1 1 800 mL and the off white slurry was extracted with EtOAc 800 mL . The organic layer was washed with sat. aq. NHCl 800 mL 0.1M EDTA 400 mL brine 400 mL sat. aq. NaHCO 800 mL brine 400 mL dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated to about 2 L . The resulting benzaldehyde solution was dripped into hexanes EtO 2 1 18 L and stirred overnight. The resulting fine white precipitate was collected by filtration washed with hexanes EtO 2 1 1000 mL and dried under vacuum to yield 3 54.9 g 32.6 93 yield MS m z calcd for CHNO M Na 1705.6. found 1705.4.

To a stirring suspension of sodium hydride 4.68 g 195 mmol in DMA 400 ml at 0 C. was added a cold solution of 3 54.7 g 32.5 mmol in DMA 400 ml and the reaction was stirred at 0 C. for 4 hours. AcOH 53.9 ml 942 mmol was then added and the reaction was allowed to warm to rt overnight. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 1000 mL washed with water brine 1 1 1000 mL sat. aq. NaHCO 2 800 mL water brine 4 1 2 1000 mL brine 1 400 mL dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under vacuum to yield 4 52.1 g 195 mmol 100 yield MS m z calcd for CHNO M Na 1597.6. found 1597.4.

To a stirring solution of 4 51.2 g 32.5 mmol in dioxane 600 ml was added a solution of TFA 16.02 ml 208 mmol in water 200 ml and the reaction was heated at 50 C. for 17 hours. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 800 mL and washed with sat. aq. NaHCO 2 800 mL brine 400 mL dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated under vacuum to yield 5 49.9 g 32.5 mmol 100 yield MS m z calcd for CHNO M Na 1509.5. found 1509.3.

To a stirring solution of 5 48.3 g 32.5 mmol in pyridine 350 ml was added TBDPS Cl 83 ml 325 mmol followed by DMAP 3.97 g 32.5 mmol and the reaction was heated at 85 C. for 5 days. The reaction was allowed to cool to rt and was slowly dripped into hexanes EtO 1 1 11 L . The resulting precipitate was collected by filtration and washed with hexanes EtO 1 1 50 mL followed by purification by flash chromatography silica gel EtOAc hexanes to yield 6 17.6 g 8.05 mmol 24.8 yield MS m z calcd for CHNOSi M Na 1985.8. found 1985.6.

To a stirring solution of 6 275 g 140 mmol in toluene 2000 ml was added TCDI 59.9 g 336 mmol and the reaction was stirred for 2 days. Water 3.78 mL 210 mmol was added followed by DMAP 103 g 840 mmol and the reaction was stirred for 6 hrs. Additional water 1.26 mL 0.5 eq was added and the reaction was stirred overnight. The reaction mixture was washed with 1 M citric acid brine 4 1 v v 2 2000 mL brine 1000 mL dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated to dryness to yield 7 268 g which was carried through to the next step without further purification MS m z calcd for CHNOSSi M Na 2095.8. found 2096.4.

To a stirring solution of 7 134.6 g 64.9 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 1300 mL in a 2 L two neck RBF was added 1 1 1 3 3 3 hexamethyl 2 trimethylsilyl trisilane 46 mL 149 mmol followed by AIBN 1.07 g 6.49 mmol and the reaction was stirred for one hour at 100 C. The reaction was allowed to cool to room temperature and water 90 mL was added followed by TFA 7.5 mL 97 mmol and the reaction was allowed to stir overnight. The reaction mixture was basified by the slow addition of concentrated NHOH 10 mL and was then concentrated under vacuum to a sticky solid which was dissolved in ethyl acetate 1300 mL and washed with saturated NaHCO 1300 mL 5 NaHCO 1300 mL brine 600 mL dried over MgSO 10 g filtered and concentrated under vacuum. The resulting solids were dissolved in ethyl acetate 370 mL and dripped into a vigorously stirring solution of hexanes MTBE 3 1 v v 7.4 L . The resulting precipitate was filtered and dried under high vacuum for 3 days to provide 8 111.8 g which was carried through to the next step without further purification. MS m z calcd for CHNOSi M Na 1971.3. found 1971.3.

To a stirring solution of 8 54.5 g 28 mmol in DMF 295 mL was added TBAF 103 mL 75 in HO 280 mmol followed by water 7.6 mL 420 mmol and the reaction was heated to 50 C. and stirred overnight. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate 1250 mL washed with 1M citric acid 1000 mL brine 1000 mL sat. aq. NaHCO 1000 mL brine 750 mL dried over NaSO 10 g concentrated to dryness to yield a crude which was dissolved in ethyl acetate 90 mL and dripped into a vigorously stirring solution of MTBE hexanes 1 1 v v 1.8 L . The resulting precipitate was filtered and dried under high vacuum to provide a crude 35.9 g which was purified by RP HPLC Method 2 to yield 9 15.5 g 10.7 mmol 38.2 MS m z calcd for CHNO M H 1445.6. found 1445.3.

Compound 9 200 mg 0.138 mmol was treated with 2S 3R N Cbz 2 3 bisbenzyloxy 4 amino butyric acid following Procedure 14 to yield compound 10 180 mg 0.096 mol 69.6 MS m z calcd for CHNO M H 1878.0. found 1878.0.

Compound 10 180 mg 0.096 mmol was submitted to hydrogenolysis following Procedure 16 to yield 11 as its acetate salt which was converted to its sulfate salt according to Procedure 18 83 mg 0.082 mmol 85.4 MS m z calcd for CHNO M H 716.7. found 716.3 CLND 98.1 .

Compound 1 200 mg 0.138 mmol was treated with 2S 3S N Cbz 2 3 bisbenzyloxy 4 amino butyric acid following Procedure 14 to yield compound 2 148 mg 0.079 mol 57.2 MS m z calcd for CHNO M H 1878.0. found 1878.7.

Compound 2 148 mg 0.079 mmol was submitted to hydrogenolysis following Procedure 17 to yield 3 as its acetate salt which was converted to its sulfate salt according to Procedure 18 27 mg 0.027 mmol 34.2 MS m z calcd for CHNO M H 716.7. found 716.3 CLND 88.8 .

Compound 1 200 mg 0.138 mmol was treated with 2R 3R 2 benzyloxy 3 fluoro 4 azide butyric acid following Procedure 15 to yield compound 2 157 mg 0.093 mol 67.4 MS m z calcd for CHFNO M H 1681.7. found 1682.1.

Compound 2 157 mg 0.093 mmol was submitted to hydrogenolysis following Procedure 16 to yield 3 as its acetate salt which was purified by RP HPLC Method 4 and converted to its sulfate salt 35 mg 0.035 mmol 37.6 MS m z calcd for CHFNO M H 718.7. found 718.4 CLND 98.5 .

Compound 1 47 mg 0.032 mmol was treated with 2 R benzyloxy 3 3 bisfluoro 4 azide butyric acid following Procedure 15 to yield compound 2 40 mg 0.024 mol 75 MS m z calcd for CHFNO M H 1699.7. found 1699.2.

Compound 2 40 mg 0.024 mmol was submitted to hydrogenolysis following Procedure 16 to yield 3 as its acetate salt which was converted to its sulfate salt according to Procedure 18 20 mg 0.019 mmol 79.2 MS m z calcd for CHFNO M H 736.7. found 736.3 CLND 97.6 .

To a stirring solution of 1 2 g 1.092 mmol in DMSO 10.92 mL was added sulfur trioxide pyridine 1.825 g 11.47 mmol followed by TEA 3.20 mL 22.94 mmol and the reaction was stirred for 2 hr. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 50 mL washed with NaHCO 2 50 mL brine 50 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated under vacuum to yield 2 1.78 g 0.974 mmol 89 MS m z calcd for CHNOSi M Na 1850.7. found 1850.7.

To a stirring solution of 2 1.78 g 0.973 mmol in DMF 18.71 mL and methanol 18.71 mL at 0 C. was added NaBH 0.368 g 9.73 mmol and the reaction was stirred for 1 hr. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 75 mL washed with water brine 1 1 75 mL brine 3 75 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to a white solid which was purified on a 2 inch reverse phase HPLC Method 2 to yield compound 3 0.62 g 0.339 mmol 35 MS m z calcd for CHNOSi M Na 1852.7. found 1852.9.

To a stirring solution of 3 14.3 g 7.81 mmol in pyridine 46 mL was added acetic anhydride 110 ml and the reaction was stirred for 2 days. Methanol 100 mL was added careful exothermic reaction followed by EtOAc 1 L . The organic layer was washed with 1 M citric acid 1 L 5 NaHCO 2 1 L brine water 1 1 1 L brine 1 L dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to dryness to yield compound 4 8.2 g which was carried through to the next step without further purification. MS m z calcd for CHNOSi M Na 1936.7. found 1936.4.

To a stirring solution of 4 9.1 g 4.76 mmol in AcOH 19.8 mL was added TFA 1.8 mL of a 3 1 TFA water solution and the reaction was heated at 40 C. for 45 min. Additional TFA 0.45 mL of a 3 1 TFA water solution was added and the reaction was heated for 1.5 hr. The reaction was then cooled to room temperature diluted with EtOAc 200 mL and washed with sat. aq. NaHCO 3 200 mL and brine 200 mL . The organic layer was dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated to dryness to yield compound 5 8.7 g 3.43 mmol which was carried through to the next step without further purification. MS m z calcd for CHNOSi M Na 1848.7. found 1848.3.

To a stirring solution of 5 8.7 g 4.76 mmol in pyridine 95 mL was added p toluenesulfonyl chloride 5.45 g 28.6 mmol and the reaction was stirred for 2 hours. Additional p toluenesulfonyl chloride 1.82 g 9.52 mmol was added and the reaction was stirred for another 7 hours at room temperature. The reaction was diluted with ethyl acetate 900 mL and washed with 0.5 M citric acid 2 1 L 5 NaHCO 1 L brine 500 mL dried over NaSOand concentrated under vacuum to approximately 80 mL. This solution was dripped into a vigorously stirring mixture of 8 1 hexanes EtO 900 mL . The precipitate was filtered off and washed with hexanes 200 mL and dried under high vacuum overnight to provide a crude 8.6 g which was purified by RP HPLC Method 2 to yield compound 6 4.5 g 2.158 mmol 64 yield MS m z calcd for CHNOSSi M Na 2002.7. found 2002.4.

To a stirring solution of 6 7.7 g 3.88 mmol in toluene 78 mL at room temperature was added a solution of TCDI 5.4 g 30.3 mmol in toluene 78 mL and the reaction was stirred overnight. The reaction was diluted with EtOAc and washed with 1M citric acid 3 1 L brine water 1 1 v v 3 250 mL dried over NaSO and concentrated to dryness to yield 7 8.3 g which was carried through to the next step without further purification MS m z calcd for CHNOSSi M Na 2112.7. found 2112.4.

To a stirring solution of 7 8.1 g 3.87 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 100 mL was added 2 2 azobisisobutyronitrile 32 mg 0.174 mmol followed by tris trimethylsilyl silane 34.3 uL 7.67 mmol and the reaction was heated to an internal temperature of 85 C. for one hour. The reaction was allowed to cool to room temperature was diluted with EtOAc 1 L washed with 0.5M citric acid 2 1 L sat. aq. NaHCO 1 L brine 500 mL dried over NaSOand concentrated to dryness to yield a crude which was dissolved in EtOAc 80 mL and dripped into a mixture of vigorously stirring hexanes 1.125 L and diethyl ether 0.125 L . Filtration of the resulting precipitate provided compound 8 6.6 g which was carried through to the next step without further purification. MS m z calcd for CHNOSSi M H 1964.7. found 1964.5.

To a stirring solution of 8 3.0 g 1.53 mmol in DMPU 52 mL was added sodium azide 0.794 g 12.21 mmol and the reaction was heated to 70 C. After 2 hours the reaction was cooled to room temperature diluted with EtOAc 500 mL washed with water 2 800 mL brine water 1 1 v v 1 L brine 500 mL dried over NaSOand concentrated to dryness to yield 9 2.85 g which was carried through to the next step without further purification. MS m z calcd for CHNOSi M Na 1857.7. found 1857.6.

To a stirring solution of 9 2.2 g 1.20 mmol in DMF 9 mL was added water 0.19 mL followed by TBAF 75 in water 3.14 mL 8.58 mmol and the reaction was heated at 45 C. overnight. Methylamine 40 in water 8.4 mL 50 mmol was then added and the reaction was stirred for 4 hours. The reaction was diluted with EtOAc 500 mL washed with 1 M citric acid 1 L brine water 1 5 v v 600 ml sat. aq. NaHCO 150 mL brine 300 mL dried over NaSOand concentrated to provide a crude which was dissolved in EtOAc 30 mL and dripped into a mixture of vigorously stirring MTBE 250 mL and hexanes 250 mL . The resulting precipate was filtered washed with hexanes 3 60 mL and dried under vacuum to provide a crude which was purified by RP HPLC Method 2 to yield 10 0.582 g 0.447 mmol 52 yield MS m z calcd for CHNO M Na 1271.5. found 1271.3.

Compound 10 50 mg 0.040 mmol was treated with 2S 3R N Cbz 2 3 bisbenzyloxy 4 amino butyric acid following Procedure 14 to yield compound 11 59 mg 0.035 mol 87.5 MS m z calcd for CHNO M H 1681.8. found 1682.0.

Compound 11 59 mg 0.035 mmol was submitted to hydrogenolysis following Procedure 17 to yield the crude acetate salt 33 mg which was purified by RP HPLC Method 4 to yield 12 as its sulfate salt 9 mg 0.009 mol 25.7 MS m z calcd for CHNO M H 716.7. found 716.4 CLND 95.9 .

Compound 1 50 mg 0.040 mmol was treated with 2S 3S N Cbz 2 3 bisbenzyloxy 4 amino butyric acid following Procedure 14 to yield compound 2 52 mg 0.031 mol 77 MS m z calcd for CHNO M H 1681.8. found 1682.0.

Compound 2 52 mg 0.031 mmol was submitted to hydrogenolysis following Procedure 17 to yield the crude acetate salt 38 mg which was purified by RP HPLC Method 4 to yield 3 as its sulfate salt 9 mg 0.009 mol 29 MS m z calcd for CHNO M H 716.7. found 716.4 CLND 99.4 .

Compound 1 50 mg 0.040 mmol was treated with 2R 3R 2 benzyloxy 3 fluoro 4 azide butyric acid following Procedure 15 to yield compound 2 47 mg 0.032 mol 80.0 MS m z calcd for CHFNO M H 1485.5. found 1484.8.

Compound 2 47 mg 0.032 mmol was submitted to hydrogenolysis following Procedure 16 to yield the crude acetate salt 36 mg which was purified by RP HPLC Method 4 to yield 3 as its sulfate salt 11 mg 0.011 mol 33.7 MS m z calcd for CHFNO M H 718.7. found 718.4 CLND 96.7 .

Compound 1 81 mg 0.065 mmol was treated with 2 R benzyloxy 3 3 bisfluoro 4 azide butyric acid following Procedure 14 to yield compound 2 70 mg 0.047 mol 72.3 MS m z calcd for CHFNO M H 1503.5. found 1503.0.

Compound 2 70 mg 0.047 mmol was submitted to hydrogenolysis following Procedure 16 to yield the crude acetate salt 76 mg which was purified by RP HPLC Method 4 to yield 3 5 mg 0.005 mol 10.2 MS m z calcd for CHFNO M H 736.7. found 736.3 CLND 99 .

Minimum inhibitory concentrations MIC were determined by reference Clinical and Laboratory Standards Institute CLSI broth microdilution methods per M7 A7 2006 . Quality control ranges utilizing ATCC 25922 ATCC 27853 and ATCC 29213 and interpretive criteria for comparator agents were as published in CLSI M100 S17 2007 . Briefly serial two fold dilutions of the test compounds were prepared at 2 concentration in Mueller Hinton Broth. The compound dilutions were mixed in 96 well assay plates in a 1 1 ratio with bacterial inoculum. The inoculum was prepared by suspension of a colony from an agar plate that was prepared the previous day. Bacteria were suspended in sterile saline and added to each assay plate to obtain a final concentration of 5 10CFU mL. The plates were incubated at 35 C for 20 hours in ambient air. The MIC was determined to be the lowest concentration of the test compound that resulted in no visible bacterial growth as compared to untreated control.

All of the U.S. patents U.S. patent application publications U.S. patent applications foreign patents foreign patent applications and non patent publications referred to in this specification are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety to the extent not inconsistent with the present description.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that although specific embodiments of the invention have been described herein for purposes of illustration various modifications may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not limited except as by the appended claims.

