---

title: Method and apparatus for generating media based on media elements from multiple locations
abstract: An approach is provided for generating and sharing compositions based on media elements acquired from different locations. A media generation platform determines an association of one or more media elements with one or more locations. The media generation platform next determines one or more interactions with at least one connecting user interface element to associate the one or more media composition elements with one or more media composition applications. The media generation platform then causes a generation of at least one media composition that includes, at least in part, the one or more media composition elements based, at least in part, on the one or more interactions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09078091&OS=09078091&RS=09078091
owner: NOKIA TECHNOLOGIES OY
number: 09078091
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20120502
---
Service providers and device manufacturers e.g. wireless cellular etc. are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services. One area of interest has been the development of services and technologies related to content generation e.g. music television video etc. on mobile devices such as mobile phones and or tablets. For example in recent years services have offered users the ability to select various media elements related to different subject matters and genres e.g. classical rock sports news amateur etc. . Some of the services further allow users to sample or mix various media elements for enabling the generation of new compositions. However users are unable to readily associate a selected media element with its point of origination. Accordingly service providers and device manufacturers face significant technical challenges in providing a service that enables users to personalize and share media elements with other users in connection with location data e.g. a map .

Therefore there is a need for an approach for generating and sharing compositions based on media elements acquired from different locations.

According to one embodiment a method comprises causing at least in part an association of one or more media elements with one or more locations. The method also comprises determining one or more interactions with at least one connecting user interface element to associate the one or more media composition elements with one or more media composition applications. The method further comprises causing at least in part a generation of at least one media composition that includes at least in part the one or more media composition elements based at least in part on the one or more interactions.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code for one or more computer programs the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor to cause at least in part an association of one or more media elements with one or more locations. The apparatus is also caused to determine one or more interactions with at least one connecting user interface element to associate the one or more media composition elements with one or more media composition applications. The apparatus is further caused to cause a generation of at least one media composition that includes at least in part the one or more media composition elements based at least in part on the one or more interactions.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carries one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an association of one or more media elements with one or more locations. The apparatus is also caused to determine one or more interactions with at least one connecting user interface element to associate the one or more media composition elements with one or more media composition applications. The apparatus is further caused to cause a generation of at least one media composition that includes at least in part the one or more media composition elements based at least in part on the one or more interactions.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for causing at least in part an association of one or more media elements with one or more locations. The apparatus also comprises means for determining one or more interactions with at least one connecting user interface element to associate the one or more media composition elements with one or more media composition applications. The apparatus further comprises means for causing at least in part a generation of at least one media composition that includes at least in part the one or more media composition elements based at least in part on the one or more interactions.

In addition for various example embodiments of the invention the following is applicable a method comprising facilitating a processing of and or processing 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal the 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal based at least in part on or derived at least in part from any one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform any one or any combination of network or service provider methods or processes disclosed in this application.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating creating and or facilitating modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising creating and or modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

In various example embodiments the methods or processes can be accomplished on the service provider side or on the mobile device side or in any shared way between service provider and mobile device with actions being performed on both sides.

For various example embodiments the following is applicable An apparatus comprising means for performing the method of any of originally filed claims and .

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for generating and sharing compositions based on media elements acquired from different locations are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

Although various embodiments are described with respect to a map interface for presentment of media element locations it is contemplated that the approach described herein may be used with other means of representing location based data including text and voice based representations lists etc.

To address this problem a system of introduces the capability of associating a specific location e.g. by address region territory with a given media element mixing at least one additional element on top of a media element. In one embodiment the system includes a media generation platform that is configured to permit the selection of media elements i.e. samples music loops clips and other content by a user in connection with a map interface. The map interface may contain one or more visual elements for representing the location of various media elements thus enabling the user to visually determine a point of origination of the media element. A selection is carried out in the context of a media generation session by way of a virtual cable which represents a connection between the element as located on the map interface and an input for use of said element within a music generation and or listening application of a device e.g. user equipment UE .

By way of example the media generation platform enables users to employ a media player music mixer sampler sequencer or other media rendering and or generation applications at a local device to access various media elements. Under this scenario the media generation platform implements an application programming interface API for integrating various executions of the media generation platform with available e.g. third party media rendering and or generation applications. For example existing media listening and or generation applications including for example Fruity Loops Cubase Logic or the like may implement new functionality using the API offered in connection with the media generation platform . Under this scenario a patch bay or connectivity widget may be integrated or used in connection with the third party applications to permit linking of media elements with input channels of the application.

As such applications at UE may communicate with the media generation platform over a communication network . It is noted that the media rendering and or generation applications may be separate or combined applications. Alternatively the application may be a social networking application book reader a calendar application or other software for use in connection with a media rendering and or generation application. In either implementation the media generation platform facilitates execution of a user interface for representing media element locations in connection with a map interface. As per the API described above the map interface may therefore be directly incorporated for use within an interface rendered for the application .

In addition the media generation platform enables a user to employ one or more media element selection interaction techniques e.g. virtual cables for transference of media elements from a source to the respective application . For example in the case of a music generation application such as a music sequencer the media generation platform enables cables to be virtually connected from the representation of the media element e.g. as an icon corresponding to the location via the map interface to patch bay represented to an interface of the application . The patch bay is connected to an icon representing the media element as rendered to the map via the virtual cable in a manner similar to patching circuits in a patch bay of a recording and or production studio. By way of the connection samples can be patched with cables to the application front end for generating new compositions the compositions featuring samples associated with a location represented on the map.

In certain embodiments the media elements are accessed by applications from one or more content providers . The content providers may provision a wide variety of content that is published and or shared by various users or providers at different locations. Hence the different locations correspond to different points of origination of the media elements. By way of example a media element shared by a person located in South Africa will correspond to a location in South Africa. Similarly a hosting service located in Alaska for maintaining items for a user from Canada corresponds to a location in Canada unless otherwise specified by the user. It is noted that the content providers may be a dedicated content sharing site such as a shared music service. Alternatively the content provider may be an individual user that maintains a public and or privately accessible data source for sharing of media elements.

Still further the media generation platform may be integrated for use in connection with a mapping service location finder or other location based service maintained by a services platform corresponding to services . In certain embodiments the media generation platform associates the media elements accessed from the content providers with respective locations within the map interface. The association is performed based at least in part on metadata provided by the user with respect to the one or more shared media elements a user profile accessible by the platform or a combination thereof. In the case of metadata data for indicating the location of the content provider may be indicated to the media generation platform . It is noted that the media elements may be correlated with specific global positioning system GPS coordinates of a particular area e.g. Harlem Paris Tokyo etc. .

By way of interaction between the mapped location of respective media elements and the application the media generation platform enables applications to perform various media production reproduction editing arranging and other generation procedures. For example in one embodiment the platform enables a mixing of a first media element e.g. a guitar riff with a second media element to generate a mix composition. As another example a first media element e.g. guitar riff may be sequenced for concurrent playback atop a commercial song for generating a remix of the song. The media elements as ported via the virtual cable connection between the application and the map interface also enables execution of one or more time scale modification beat matching tempo matching downbeat matching rhythm matching or other techniques. Still further one or more mashups in multi track compositions may be developed.

Still further one or more volume knobs may be associated with patch bays of the media generation and or listening application. As such the volume of a media element to which a virtual cable or other connecting user interface element is tied via the map interface can be affected. Also different modules can be attached in between the selected media element e.g. a sample and the patched connection to the front end including sound effects such as reverb flanger chorus or delay. As a result the system enables the user to act as a Disc Jockey DJ or music producer. In the case of a media element corresponding to video and or image data the system enables the user to act as a video or image editor. It is noted therefore that the media generation platform supports any means of processing of the one or more mapped media elements for use in generating a personalized composition.

In one embodiment the platform enables a user to store to share or a combination thereof the one or more compositions generated per the one or more media elements. The compositions may be stored by the platform to a media database as one or more media files where they may be subsequently retrieved by a calling application e.g. a media player at UE . Various media formats may be used for storing of the media compositions based on the application employed. As a result one or more other users are able to view to listen to rate to comment on etc. the one or more media compositions generated by the user per the one or more media elements. Under this scenario the one or more compositions may be stored based at least in part on one or more predetermined parameters e.g. most popular funniest etc. .

In one embodiment the compositions as stored to the database by may be presented to a user interface for selection by a user. The media compositions may be presented for selection i.e. to a playlist in conjunction with one or more commercial music selections. The commercial music collections correspond to those not composed with any of the identified media elements as rendered to a map interface. For the purpose of illustration the customized compositions may be presented to the user as a list of available selections with associated virtual cables shown extending from said selections to a corresponding location on the map for representing a location of a media element. In addition a list of commercial songs for selection may also be shown. Under this scenario users are able to patch songs from both categories for use in generating a playlist.

In addition with the virtual cables being shown in connection with the media composition selections users can see the origin of the samples used. For example a personalized media composition entitled Me and My Drum may be associated with a media element e.g. a drum loop from a town in Dublin as presented visually to the corresponding map interface. As a further implementation the user may change a virtual cable connection to create a new remix of the song. Thus the user may disconnect a current virtual cable connection associated with a media composition e.g. Me and My Drum and formulate a new connection with a different media element e.g. a piano tune as presented to the map. This results in a new media composition being generated which the listening user may also have the option of renaming and subsequently adding to their playlist. It is noted that the composer of the media composition may be notified such as by way of email or via a virtual counter alert system of accessing and or adapting of one of their compositions.

In one embodiment the media generation platform monitors the level of accessing of or sharing of media compositions and or media elements by users to determine a rate of conquering by territory. By way of example a certain territory e.g. country state city region corresponding to a particular concentration of locations of shared tracks loops or samples may be persistently monitored. The higher the concentration of sharing and or accessing activity the greater the rate and or level of conquering of the territory. Re conquering of the territory such as by another media selection genre publisher etc. is dependent on 1 an amount of content shared in that territory and 2 the popularity of the shared content. Under this scenario the publisher having a higher rate or level of conquering may have greater visibility on the map interface for influencing potential composers that are looking for media elements to sample mix etc. In addition the platform may adapt the presentation of the map in response to accessing of a media element or playback of a media composition featuring the element i.e. highlight the region on the map corresponding to the media element.

The following is a summary of various details described above pertaining to system for generating and sharing compositions based on media elements acquired from different locations 

It is noted that the above described implementation permits seamless accessing of various media elements e.g. samples loops from multiple different locations. The media generation platform also services as a conduit service or platform for facilitating interaction between a mapping service for depicting the location of the media elements and an interface for enabling generation and or listening to of media e.g. a media player a music production suite .

As shown in the system comprises a user equipment UE e.g. a mobile phone or tablet having connectivity to a media generation platform via a communication network . The UE may include or have access to one or more applications also collectively referred to as applications . By way of example the applications may include a media player application e.g. a music television and or video streaming application a location based application e.g. a mapping and or navigation application a social networking application an electronic book application one or more organizational applications e.g. a calendar contacts etc. a web browser a gaming application etc. In certain embodiments the applications may also include one or more media sequencing creating editing and or mixing applications.

As noted previously the UE is also connected to a services platform via the communication network . The services platform includes one or more services also collectively referred to as services . The services may include a wide variety of services such as content provisioning services for the one or more applications e.g. location based services social networking services Internet media elementing services etc. . In addition the UE and the services platform are also connected to one or more content providers also collectively referred to as content providers via the communication network . The content providers also may provision a wide variety of content e.g. one or more media elements one or more second media items etc. to the components of the system .

In certain embodiments the applications may utilize location based technologies e.g. GPS cellular triangulation Assisted GPS A GPS etc. to make a request to one or more services for location based data e.g. mapping and or navigation information based on a position relative to a UE . For example the UE may include a GPS receiver to obtain geographic coordinates from the satellites to determine its current location.

By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network a wireless network a telephony network or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

The UE is any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. .

By way of example the UE media generation platform the applications the services platform the services the content provider and the satellites communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 headers as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

The control logic oversees tasks including tasks performed by the communication module the user interface UI module the analyzer module the mixing module and the storage module . For example although other modules may perform the actual task the control logic may determine when and how those tasks are performed or otherwise direct the other modules to perform the task.

The communication module is used for communication between the applications of the UE and the media generation platform . The communication module is also used for communication between the applications and the services of the services platform content providers the media database and the satellites . The communication module may also be used to render the media elements e.g. a music sample in the application e.g. a media player as well as the one or more personalized media compositions. The media items may be rendered in connection with a mapping module which accesses data for representing the location of the various media elements to a map. The communication module in connection with the user interface module and the storage module also may be used to cause one or more associations of the stored shared or a combination thereof compositions with the application. As such various songs videos and other media compositions may be rendered to a user via the application for selection review or addition to a playlist.

The communication module may also be used in connection with the analyzer module to retrieve media elements such as in response to a search command e.g. a drum loop based on GPS coordinates determined by the analyzer module .

The user interface UI module operates in connection with the mixing module to enable the rendering and execution of one or more virtual cables for connecting elements featured to a map by the mapping module with a patch bay input panel represented via the application. In addition the UI module regulates the connection and or disconnection of the virtual cables by the user for enabling execution or creation of a remix via the mixing module . As previously discussed it is contemplated that the user interface module enables the virtual cable to contact the respective patch bays in a manner similar to patching circuits in a patch bay found in a recording and or production studio.

In certain embodiments the user interface module in connection with the communication module may also be used to determine one or more other interactions with a one or more other controls e.g. a volume knob one or more parameters e.g. repeat shuffle etc. or a combination thereof associated with the application e.g. a media player b the at least one connecting user interface element e.g. a virtual cable or a combination thereof to cause one or more modifications of the one or more renderings of the mix item. The user interface module in connection with the communication module and the storage module also may be used to store e.g. in the media database to share e.g. with the services or a combination thereof the one or more media compositions.

The analyzer module may be used to determine the GPS coordinates of the location within the mapping and or navigation application that the virtual cable is connected to e.g. Harlem . In addition the analyzer module may interpret search commands for specific media elements e.g. keyword search for Salsa Music . Still further the analyzer module may analyze levels of conquering associated with one or more media elements and publishers thereof for a given geographic location. This execution is performed in connection with the mapping module .

The mixing module is used to mix media items e.g. one or more drum loops one or more audio samples one or more virtual instruments etc. for composition purposes. The mixing module may also operate in connection with the application e.g. media player to enable generation of playlists. In certain embodiments the mixing module operates in connection with the communication module and user interface module enable retrieval of commercial media compositions and composed media selections to be displayed to users via the application . It is contemplated that the mixing module may mix the media items based at least in part on one or more time scale modification one or more beat matching one or more tempo matching one or more rhythm matching or a combination thereof processes. By way of example the mixing module in connection with the analysis module may mix the media items based on beat and downbeat analysis methods such that the drum loop is 1 time stretched to make the drum loop tempo match the tempo of the active first media item and 2 the first beat of each measure of the drum loop is matched to the downbeats of the first media item.

It is noted that the mixing module is an optional execution of the media generation platform as various steps of the above described executions may be performed directly by the application . The integration module and user interface module may facilitate calling of an application user interface API for facilitating these executions. For example a third party media generation application may call functions offered by the API for enabling the connecting of virtual cables to one or more media elements rendered to a map interface.

The storage module is used to manage the storage of the one or more stored shared or a combination thereof media compositions metadata regarding the one or more first media items e.g. a music playlist or sample associated and or stored on the mobile device rendering the one or more mix items e.g. the UE and one or more other images that can be mixed by the media generation platform with one or more graphical elements e.g. a video or television stream .

In step the media generation platform causes an association of one or more media elements with one or more locations. Per step the platform determines one or more interactions with at least one connecting user interface element to associate the one or more media composition elements with one or more media composition applications. As noted previously the connecting user interface element may correspond to a virtual cable for facilitating transference of a media element to an input receptacle of the media composition application. In another step the platform causes a generation of at least one media composition that includes the one or more media composition elements based on the one or more interactions.

In step of process the media generation platform causes a presentation of the one or more media composition elements in a first layer of a user interface depicting the one or more locations. In step a presentation of the one or more media items in a second layer of the user interface is caused. In another step the platform causes a transmission of the one or more media elements to the one or more media composition applications based on the one or more interactions. Of note the at least one media composition is based at least in part on the transmission i.e. as facilitated via a virtual cable connection.

In step of process the media generation platform causes a ranking of the one or more media elements based on popularity information associated with the one or more locations. The ranking may correspond to a popularity rating or access ranking attributed to the media elements by one or more users i.e. those who access the media items once published or made available for consumption.

In another step the platform causes a selection of the one or more media elements to include in the at least one media composition based on the popularity information. Per step the platform determines an input specifying one or more media files. As noted previously the at least one media composition is based at least in part on a compositing of the one or more media elements into the one or more media files. The media files may correspond to different waveform formats.

In step of process the media generation platform determines an input for selecting the at least one media composition. In step the platform causes a presentation of one or more representations of one or more connections among the at least one media composition the one or more media elements and or the one or more locations.

In another step the platform determines one or more other interactions with the at least one connecting user interface elements to cause at least in part a modification of the one or more connections. This may correspond to a connecting or disconnecting of a virtual cable between the application and a particular media element location as represented on a map. In another step the platform causes a remixing of the at least one media composition based on the modification of the one or more connections. This may correspond for example to an adaptation of the connection from one media element e.g. a saxophone sample to another media element e.g. a flute sample within the same or different geographic location.

In step of process the media generation platform causes a presentation of information associated with the one or more media elements and or the one or more locations during a playback of the at least one media composition. As such the user is able to readily associate a given media element e.g. a sample with a particular composition of which the sample was used.

In another step the platform processes the at least one media composition and or one or more other media compositions to determine popularity information associated with the one or more media elements and or the one or more locations. Per step the platform determines the at least one media composition and or the one or more media elements to associate with the one or more locations based on conquering status information associated with at least one user. As mentioned previously the popularity and conquering status may correspond to a level of sharing of one or more media elements a level of accessing and or requesting of one or more media elements or a combination thereof. Hence a higher level of accessing of a published media item i.e. higher popularity may correspond to increased conquering status for the at least one user.

In the user of mobile device e.g. a tablet composes media based on the various media elements available for selection by various other users. The other media elements are depicted as originating from various locations on a map interface and are labeled respectively. By way of example a cluster of media elements is shown to originate in Canada while a single media element is shown to originate from the United States labeled . Although not illustrated here the map interface may be zoomed in to display e.g. a county a city a city block or even a single building. The media elements are presented for example in response to a search data input for Drum Riffs. 

The user may preview and or receive additional details regarding a particular media element as presented to the map. For example the user may perform a mouse over of a particular element to view a callout message for indicating various details regarding the media element. The information presented may include the name of the creator publisher of the media element the file name associated with the media element a number of hits accessing of the media element and a ranking of the media element relative to other related media elements. Also presented with the callout message is a preview button which upon selection enables the user to listen to view or otherwise consume the media element or a portion thereof. In the case of a drum riff for example the drum riff associated with the media element labeled n may be previewed against that associated with the media element labeled .

Once the suitable media element e.g. sample is identified by the user it can be patched with virtual cables to the compatible composing software front end such as for a composition application. In this case the virtual cable is activated to enable a connection between an input of the software front end and the media element labeled . While various techniques may be employed for generating the virtual cable the use case herein contemplates generation of the cable in response to clicking of the input followed by clicking of label 1. The user may then adjust the volume level associated with this input by way of a volume adjustment tab .

In the user adjusts the granularity of the map using the zoom level action button to focus more narrowly on the area related to labels . From this map view the user is able to see the high concentration of other samples related to the media element labeled as selected. Also the user may activate a toolbox link to invoke various additional mixing elements related to the media element labeled . For example the user may include and or add various affects to the patched media element including a change in tempo or reverberation effect . The platform may enable rendering of visual elements e.g. a button or interactive widget for representing these effects with respect to the API generated in connection with the application . In this scenario the tempo matching and reverberation effect are shown as being placed directly along the virtual cable for incorporating the effect.

Once the user has composed the media to their liking they can save the composition by activating the SAVE action button . They can also publish the composition for access by others by activating the PUBLISH action button . Various other buttons and options related to the mixing and or editing of media may also be available. Of note the location and or point of origination of the respective media elements is presented concurrent with an interface for enabling selection and or processing of said elements.

In the user of the media generation platform as accessed via a listening interface application can access both commercial media compositions and those composed published by various users. Under this scenario the user may select various media compositions from these particular lists Popular Songs and Custom Songs for addition to a playlist i.e. built by way of a drag and drop selection action of an particular composition to a playlist bucket . Per the execution of the platform while listening to a particular composed composition e.g. as per the Custom Songs list the user is able to see the virtual cable connections to the corresponding locations of media elements used in generation of the composition. For example a media composition entitled Custom Song 1 includes a sampled sound corresponding to the media element labeled corresponding to a location in Canada. As another example a media composition entitled Custom Song 2 includes a sampled sound corresponding to the media element labeled corresponding to a location in the United States. By way of this execution the user is able to readily identify a location from which a particular sample loop or other media element incorporated into the composition was derived.

In the user can create new remixes of the composed media selections e.g. per list by changing the virtual cable connection. This includes for example disconnecting a particular virtual cable to thus eliminate a connection and hence use of a particular media element for a given composition. As another example the user may associate a given selection with different or additional locations on the map. This is presented by way of virtual cable being connected with the composition entitled Custom Song 2. Under this scenario Custom Song 2 is now associated with multiple samples. The sequence of the samples may also be manipulated to affect the quality of the remix.

It is noted that different areas of the map interface may be highlighted in some way e.g. illuminated as the different media elements are played during playback of the composition e.g. the song . By way of example in as Custom Song 1 is played Label 1 corresponding to the location of a media element related to the song blinks shakes or is otherwise highlighted within the map interface .

Still further an icon is presented to the user interface for enabling the user to identify an area within the world corresponding to the highest conquering level. The conquering level may correspond to a specific level of accessing and or sharing of media elements for this geographic region. The user may rate the media composition by way of a rating selector to further affect the conquering details.

The processes described herein for generating and sharing compositions based on media elements acquired from different locations may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to generate and share compositions based on media elements acquired from different locations. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for generating and sharing compositions based on media elements acquired from different locations. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for generating and sharing compositions based on media elements acquired from different locations is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user a microphone an Infrared IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen a touch screen or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a plasma screen or a printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball cursor direction keys or a motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of ASICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for generating and sharing compositions based on media elements acquired from different locations to the UE .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example twisted pair cables coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or any other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA one or more controllers or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to generate and share compositions based on media elements acquired from different locations. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of generating and sharing compositions based on media elements acquired from different locations. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to generate and share compositions based on media elements acquired from different locations. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

