---

title: Compressive passive millimeter wave imager
abstract: A compressive scanning approach for millimeter wave imaging and sensing. A Hadamard mask is positioned to receive millimeter waves from an object to be imaged. A subset of the full set of Hadamard acquisitions is sampled. The subset is used to reconstruct an image representing the object.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08941061&OS=08941061&RS=08941061
owner: UChicago Argonne, LLC
number: 08941061
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120328
---
The United States Government has rights in the invention described herein pursuant to Contract No. DE AC02 06CH11357 between the United States Department of Energy and UChicago Argonne LLC as operator of Argonne National Laboratory.

The present invention generally relates to passive millimeter wave imaging. Specifically the present invention relates to compressive passive millimeter wave imaging.

Passive millimeter wave MMW imaging has many applications such as remote sensing of the Earth s resources aircraft landing in optically obscure weather and security point inspection of concealed weapons in humans. The underlying principle is the measurement of Planck s blackbody radiation of materials at millimeter wavelengths. The main advantage of passive MMW imaging is that it provides information about ground based targets under all weather conditions optical systems visible and IR on the other hand require clear atmospheric conditions for reliable operation. For example the atmospheric attenuation at MMW frequencies is 0.07 to 3 dB km in drizzle and fog whereas it is one to three orders of magnitude higher at optical frequencies exceeding 100 dB km in foggy conditions . See e.g. L. Yujiri M. Shoucri and P. Moffa Passive millimeter wave imaging IEEE Microwave Magazine September 2003 R. Appleby and R. N. Anderton Millimeter wave and submillimeter wave imaging for security and surveillance Proc. IEEE 95 1683 1690 2007 A. H. Lettington D. Dunn M. Attia and I. M. Blankson Passive millimeter wave imaging architectures J. Optics A Pure and Applied Optics 5 S103 S110 2003 . Excellent image contrast is obtained in outdoor environments due to cold sky reflected radiation by targets. For example the apparent temperature of the sky at 94 GHz is 70K in comparison to 220K at infrared wavelengths. Even at the same ambient temperature there exists variation in MMW thermal contrast of objects because of emissivity differences of objects at these wavelengths e.g. the emissivity of metal is 0 water 0.4 wood 0.4 and concrete 0.8. M. R. Fetterman J. Grata G. Jubic W. L. Kiser Jr. and A. Visnansky Simulation acquisition and analysis of passive millimeter wave images in remote sensing applications Optics Express 16 20503 20515 2008 . As a result signal washouts do not occur because the apparent temperature between the background and the object are rarely similar.

In addition to imaging passive millimeter waves can be used to obtain spectroscopic signatures of chemicals based on molecular rotational energy transitions. With a 16 channel filter bank in the 146 154 GHz band the 150 GHz spectral line of nitric oxide from a test stack at a distance of 600 m from the radiometer has been measured. N. Gopalsami S. Bakhtiari T. W. Elmer and A. C. Raptis Application of Millimeter Wave Radiometry for Remote Chemical Detection IEEE Trans. on Microwave Theory and Techniques 56 700 709 2008 . While imaging can provide broad area search of facilities for certain observables such as structural changes traffic and effluent heat the spectroscopy system can provide more specific signatures of effluent chemicals from exhaust stacks. Millimeter wave radiation allows for rotational spectroscopy of polar molecules so it can provide fingerprint signatures of chemicals emanating from material processing facilities. is an example of an outdoor image that was obtained with a prior system.

A major disadvantage of such a single pixel detector system is the long scanning time for image acquisition. For example a 100 100 pixel image with 1 s integration time per pixel requires a minimum of 2 h 47 min. With such a long imaging time the imager s value is diminished for applications involving imaging of nonstationary objects or for real time or near real time applications. Stemming from the need for faster imaging there has evolved the concept of compressive sensing which has the potential in reducing the image acquisition time by a factor of 10 or more.

One embodiment of the invention relates to a method for millimeter wave imaging. A portion of an extended Hadamard mask is positioned. The extended Hadamard mask is within an opening of a template with an opening of size p q the extended Hadamard mask having a size 2p 1 2q 1 wherein p and q are prime numbers the Hadamard mask receiving millimeter waves from a source. A portion of the millimeter waves are transmitted through transmit pixels in the Hadamark mask. A portion of the millimeter waves are reflected by reflect pixels in the Hadamark mask. The transmitted portion of the millimeter waves are focused and these focused millimeter waves are received by a detector

Another embodiment relates to a system for passive millimeter wave imaging a source the system having an extended Hadamard mask comprises a plurality of pixels the pixels including transmitting pixels and non transmitting pixels the transmitting pixels allowing millimeter waves to pass through. The system further including a template with an opening smaller than the extended Hadamard mask the template is positioned between the source and the extended Hadamard mask. A focusing lens is positioned behind the extended Hadamard mask relative to the source and positioned to receive millimeter waves from the extended Hadamard mask. A receiving antenna is associated with the focusing lens to receive millimeter waves. A radiometer is in communication with the receiving antenna.

Another embodiment relates to a computer implemented machine for imaging an object comprising a processor and a tangible computer readable medium operatively connected to the processor and including computer code. The computer code is configured to control imaging an object via an imaging lens at an image plane. The computer code positioning a Hadamard mask at the image plane. The computer code is further configured to control interacting millimeter waves from the object with the Hadamark mask. The computer code is further configured to control transmitting a portion of the millimeter waves through transmit pixels in the Hadamark mask. The computer code is further configured to control focusing the transmitted portion of the millimeter waves. The computer code receiving the focused millimeter waves.

Additional features advantages and embodiments of the present disclosure may be set forth from consideration of the following detailed description drawings and claims. Moreover it is to be understood that both the foregoing summary of the present disclosure and the following detailed description are exemplary and intended to provide further explanation without further limiting the scope of the present disclosure claimed.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the figures can be arranged substituted combined and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated and made part of this disclosure.

A serious drawback of single pixel passive millimeter wave PMMW imaging and spectroscopy system is the long acquisition time needed to produce a high fidelity image arising from two factors a the time to scan the whole scene pixel by pixel and b the integration time for each pixel for adequate signal to noise ratio SNR . Compressive sensing CS has been developed for single pixel optical cameras. CS reduces the time necessary for imaging while still producing high fidelity images by exploiting the sparsity of the data in the image space. Although the efficacy of CS for optical cameras has been proven its application to PMMW systems is not straightforward. PMMW systems differ from the typical optical camera system in at least two important ways. First PMMW systems involve longer wavelengths by three to four orders of magnitude. The longer wavelengths cause high diffraction and insertion losses in finite size spatial waveform modulators. Second PMMW systems involve weaker radiation intensity often several orders of magnitude difference. The present invention relates to systems and method for utilizing a CS technique for PMMW imagers.

CS takes advantage of the sparsity or compressibility of an image in a domain such that fewer samples can be taken to achieve the image than required for conventional imaging yet the CS derived image can be nearly exactly reconstructed with minimal loss of information in comparison to convention imaging. Some existing compression mechanisms rely upon bandwidth compression to achieve reduced data size for an image for example JPEG. In contrast CS techniques exploit compression in signal image structure and collect fewer data thus saving on imaging time.

Mathematically an image of size p q can be represented by a vector x i i 1 2 . . . N where N p q. If x is sparse or compressible in some basis resulting from the concatenation of basis functions i 1 . . . N the vector x may be represented as

This is generally true in most imaging scenarios. In this case it is possible to design a sampling matrix that operates on x to provide y i i 1 . . . M measurements. The transformation between x and y is represented by 2 where and are M N matrices.

For the sampling matrix it is necessary to choose M samples or the matrix such that the image x can be reconstructed from y with minimal or no loss of information. The acquisition matrix must satisfy the mathematical requirement of restricted isometry property RIP . Generally speaking RIP implies that the rows of and the columns of in 2 must be incoherent. In one embodiment the RIP and coherence requirements can be satisfied by simply selecting as a random matrix independent of or x. An example of an matrix is a series of M random masks each having a size p q that modulates the scene to provide M projections of the scene that constitute the CS measurements. In one embodiment each pixel in the series of M random masks is either transmitting 1 or blocking 0 .

The image reconstruction is generally posed as an lnorm optimization problem argmin such that 3 If the signal is K sparse i.e. 0 for i K then the algorithm can exactly recover the signal using only

Although CS has been applied to optical systems the apparatus and methods for such systems does not extend to PMMW applications. CS for optical systems has utilized digital micromirror devices DMD which simulate random masks by changing their reflection angles electronically to achieve either a transmitting or blocking for a pixel. As mentioned earlier the CS implementation at millimeter wavelengths is not straightforward i.e. there are no suitable spatial intensity modulators such as DMDs for these wavelengths. Implementation of compressive sampling in MMW imagers entails the following steps 

Reflective or transmissive printed circuit elements PCE on a MMW transparent plastic sheet may be utilized. In one embodiment the PCE are patterned arbitrarily. However this approach is not practical in passive MMW imagers. The manual use of masks is insufficient for the speed necessary to achieve the desired fast imaging by CS. In addition the optical components in passive systems must be carefully designed to avoid excessive insertion or diffraction loss by the masks since passive MMW radiation is of inherently very low power.

Thus in one embodiment of the invention a single extended mask is utilized to scan a scene rather than M random masks one at a time. In one embodiment the size of the extended Hadamard mask is determined by the twin prime construction method in Hadamard transform theory for an image size of p q where p and q are prime numbers the size of the extended mask is 2p 1 2q 1 . See M. Harwit and N. Sloane Academic Press New York 1979 incorporated herein by reference. The sample area is determined by positioning the extended Hadamard mask against a template with an opening of size p q. A cyclic S matrix of size pq pq where p and q are prime numbers and q p 2 is obtained with twin prime construction procedure by folding the elements of the first row of the S matrix into a p q matrix. The p q matrix is periodically repeated to form a 2p 1 2q 1 extended matrix as shown in . is the fabricated mask made of chrome on quartz in which the blue and red rectangles show examples of two mask positions for data acquisition. If the extended mask is scanned in a raster pattern behind a template with an opening of size p q N pq different mask patterns are exposed for a full set of data collection. One may randomly choose M p q submasks out of the 2p 1 2q 1 extended mask for compressive data collection.

In one embodiment a device in accordance with the present invention operates as follows. An imaging lens the first lens behind the object produces an image of the object at its image plane according to lens equation 1 f 1 d 1 d . A Hadamard mask pattern consisting of transmit reflect pixels is introduced at the image plane. The Hadamard mask patterns of given size are predetermined by the Hadamard transform theory. The radiation from the image plane is modulated transmitted through or reflected away by the Hadamard mask pattern and the transmitted radiation is refocused by a second lens focusing lens onto the radiometer antenna. Essentially with this process the 2 D image is converted into a single data point in the Hadamard transform domain. Many such data points but fewer than the total number required for conventional imaging are collected by randomly introducing a different Hadamard mask pattern each time. The original image may be faithfully reconstructed from the compressively sampled data using a known iterative reconstruction algorithm. It should be appreciated that while the examples described below illustrate embodiments for detection of passive millimeter waves the present invention may be applied to active millimeter wave systems and methods as well.

Traditional imagers utilize a radiometer placed at the focal plane of a 15.24 cm lens. The lens is then raster scanned to form an image. In one embodiment CS techniques of the present invention require masks to be inserted at the image plane of the lens for spatial intensity modulation. Therefore the CS techniques in certain embodiments require an additional lens to collect the modulated radiation and focus it into the radiometer horn. shows such a two lens PMMW setup for CS implementation using Hadamard masks. The extended Hadamard mask is placed at the image plane of the first lens and a metal plate with a hole of size p q placed in front of the mask defines the exposure window. The object i.e. the imaging target is positioned on the opposite side of the imaging lens from the Hadamard mask . The extended mask is controlled by a 2 axis translation stage to expose different mask patterns for compressive data collection one for each measurement. A second lens of one inch diameter collects the modulated radiation field through the Hadamard mask and focuses it to a receiving antenna that is in communication with a multichannel radiometer . It should be appreciated that the positions of the lenses and the mask are governed by the lens equation 1 f 1 d 1 d where fis the focal length of either of the lenses dand dare the image and object distances respectively. For purposes of the example because the targets used in the experiments did not have spectral features all the spectral channels were averaged to increase the signal to noise ratio SNR . The multichannel radiometer is in communication with a processor such as a personal computer to process and store the information from the multichannel radiometer .

If a complete set of N acquisitions is made by raster scanning the extended Hadamard mask pixel by pixel the image reconstruction consists of simple matrix manipulations as shown below. The measured intensity vector Iby the cyclic Hadamard mask may be expressed as 4 where S pq pq is the cyclic S matrix realized by the Hadmard mask and I pq l is the scene intensity vector which can be reconstructed from the full set of Hadamard measurements by . 5 For a given size Hadamard mask the S matrix in Eq. 5 is predetermined from the Hadamard sequence so the image reconstruction is very fast.

To analyze the effect of masks on the SNR a simple setup consisting of a single 1 inch diameter lens collecting the radiation from the mask as shown in without the 6 inch lens was utilized. Although the MMW transmission through individual pixels in the mask suffers from small pixel sizes relative to the wavelength ratio the overall transmission as used in this setup is not affected significantly as the signals from nearly half of the open mask pixels are summed up by the detector. The radiometer signals were first measured for three backgrounds a 60 W incandescent lamp a liquid nitrogen load and an absorber at ambient temperature. and give respectively the radiometer signals without and with the mask in the beam path. The brightness temperature of the lamp as calibrated with liquid nitrogen and ambient loads is about 475K. The SNR values of the radiometer for the lamp radiation without and with the mask in the beam path are 13.2 and 7.9 respectively see . A factor of 2 reduction in SNR is a tradeoff for higher image resolution achieved with subwavelength pixel size. The transmission through mask assumes 50 of the pixels are blocked and SNR is defined as .

To test image formation and reconstruction the simplified imaging setup in was used with a light bulb thermal light source illuminating an object consisting of 2.54 cm circular hole with a 3 mm wide metal strip in the middle and with the Hadamard mask situated behind the object in close proximity. The Hadamard transform and image reconstruction process was first simulated for the object geometry. gives the binary coded image of the object with 1 representing the hole and 0 the metal portion and is its Hadamard transformed image according to Eq. 4. The reconstructed image from Hadamard transformed data using Eq. 5 was exact and identical to for this case.

Next obtained a full set of pq 1763 Hadamard acquisitions were obtained by raster scanning the Hadamard mask. gives the Hadamard transformed image and shows the reconstructed image. An excellent agreement is seen between the simulated and experimental fully acquisition Hadamard transformed images. The reconstructed image of a circular hole with a horizontal metal strip shows the feasibility of Hadamard imaging at millimeter wavelengths with subwavelength resolution 1.24 mm pixel size for 2 mm wavelength .

To get the full set of Hadamard acquisitions such as seen in the extended mask was scanned one pixel at a time along q pixels in the horizontal and p pixels in the vertical directions. However in accordance with embodiments of the invention the number of acquisitions can be reduced several ways. For example the mask may be sampled randomly or sequentially every npixel in the horizontal and vertical directions. These reduced acquisitions represents sub sampled data set in the Hadamard transform space. To reconstruct the image the missing data in the Hadamard space may be calculated with a numerical procedure. In one embodiment using the nsequential pixel approach the relaxation method which is frequently used in 2D solution of Poisson equation in electrostatics was utilized. See e.g. J. D. Jackson Wiley New York 1998 . The relaxation method is an iterative scheme where a trial value at a missing pixel may be obtained as a weighted average of the values at the neighboring pixels. The iterative procedure continues until the predicted values converge to within some tolerance limit. One of ordinary skill will appreciate that the tolerance limit may be set depending on the desired degree of accuracy of reproduction of the image. Once the missing pixel values are calculated the reconstruction equation in Eq. 5 may be used for image recovery.

To test the relaxation technique every 3column and 3row of the Hadamard space was sampled providing 1 9 of a full acquisition. gives the recovered image in the Hadamard space and shows the reconstructed image of the object. The recovered Hadamard image from partial data compares well with the full Hadamard image in . Also the reconstructed image of the object clearly shows the circular hole with a strip in the middle. Thus the image reconstructed from 1 9of the acquisitions compares favorably with a full acquisition image.

Embodiments of the present invention provide a progressive sampling and image reconstruction method in which the Hadamard acquisition starts at every nrow and ncolumn in the Hadamard space. The relaxation technique is applied to fill the Hadamard space from which the image is reconstructed after every sample in real time by Eq. 5 since the S matrix is predetermined for given p and q. However the error in reconstruction will be less after each complete pass N n samples as shown by the circles in . The complete image acquisition and reconstruction software for the examples described herein was implemented in LabVIEW . If the image is not satisfactory then the Hadamard space in between the sampled points is continued to be sampled and reconstructed with 2N n data and so on. The sample space is progressively increased until satisfactory image quality is obtained. In one embodiment samples are collected until a user recognizes the imaged object. In another embodiment the sampling continues until 25 of the total possible samples have been collected.

The reconstructed image quality using the progressive sampling method was compared against the Bayesian random sampling method. A normalized mean squared error NMSE metric was adopted for comparison of reconstructed images from partial and full set of samples. NMSE is

The previously discussed examples utilized the single lens imager setup shown in which was used for proof of principle testing of compressive sensing. In order to extend the principles of the present invention to far field imaging a two lens compressive sensing setup as shown in was utilized. In the examples tested to ensure high thermal contrast under indoors a 60 W incandescent lamp thermal source was used as the target to be imaged. In outdoor conditions however such an artificial hot or cold source is not needed as the cold sky reflected radiation would offer an excellent thermal contrast. gives the reconstructed images of the lamp and gives that with one quarter of the lamp blocked by a metal plate. Although the reconstruction in this example used a full set of acquisitions partial acquisitions should be adequate for far field imaging as shown by earlier images for the single lens setup.

The above examples illustrate embodiments of the present invention relating to a compressive sensing approach for single pixel passive millimeter wave imaging with potential for reducing image acquisition time by a factor of 10 or more. It is based on a Hadamard transform mask for spatial intensity modulation and allows for fast real time image reconstruction as it involves the quickly converging relaxation numerical method and simple matrix manipulations. In one exemplary embodiment a Hadamard mask of 41 43 pixels with pixel size of 1.24 mm about half the wavelength of the utilized 146 GHz to 154 GHz bandwidth radiometer was used. To introduce different Hadamard masks in the MMW beam path for compressive sensing an extended cyclic Hadamard mask of 81 85 pixels may be used. A t axis translational stage may be used to expose different submask of size 41 43 from the extended mask. An incandescent lamp of brightness temperature 475K was used as an illumination thermal source for indoor imaging. An imaging object was placed behind the mask. The STN ratios of radiometer signals for lamp radiation without and with the Hadamard mask in the beam path were 13.2 and 7.9 respectively the degradation is not severe considering subwavelength size pixels used in the mask.

Images were first reconstructed from a full set 1763 of Hadamard acquisitions. The Hadamard transform process was also simulated by binary coding of the object generating Hadamard transformed data and reconstructing the object image from the data. The agreement between the simulated and measured Hadamard transform images was very good validating the effectiveness of the CS imager. An iterative relaxation method may be used as shown in the examples for image reconstruction from partial Hadamard acquisitions. The Hadamard space is efficiently extrapolated by the numerical relaxation procedure and the image reconstruction then uses standard full set Hadamard inversion. The reconstructed image of the object compared well in quality with the original image with as little as 11 of the full samples. As illustrated in the examples the relaxation method was extended to implement a progressive sampling scheme in LabVIEW with real time reconstruction and image display. The image is reconstructed and displayed after each Hadamard acquisition the acquisitions may continue until satisfactory image quality is obtained. Most test cases resulted in good quality images with about 10 percent of the acquisitions thus offering a factor of ten increase in imaging speed by adapting the CS approach.

In one embodiment shown in a system is provided for implementing the methods described herein. shows an exemplary block diagram of an exemplary embodiment of a system according to the present disclosure. For example an exemplary procedure in accordance with the present disclosure can be performed by a processing arrangement and or a computing arrangement . Such processing computing arrangement can be e.g. entirely or a part of or include but not limited to a computer processor that can include e.g. one or more microprocessors and use instructions stored on a computer accessible medium e.g. RAM ROM hard drive or other storage device .

As shown in e.g. a computer accessible medium e.g. as described herein a storage device such as a hard disk floppy disk memory stick CD ROM RAM ROM etc. or a collection thereof can be provided e.g. in communication with the processing arrangement . The computer accessible medium may be a non transitory computer accessible medium. The computer accessible medium can contain executable instructions thereon. In addition or alternatively a storage arrangement can be provided separately from the computer accessible medium which can provide the instructions to the processing arrangement so as to configure the processing arrangement to execute certain exemplary procedures processes and methods as described herein for example.

System may also include a display or output device an input device such as a keyboard mouse touch screen or other input device and may be connected to additional systems via a logical network. Many of the embodiments described herein may be practiced in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers having processors. Logical connections may include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN that are presented here by way of example and not limitation. Such networking environments are commonplace in office wide or enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet and may use a wide variety of different communication protocols. Those skilled in the art can appreciate that such network computing environments can typically encompass many types of computer system configurations including personal computers hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Embodiments of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by local and remote processing devices that are linked either by hardwired links wireless links or by a combination of hardwired or wireless links through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Various embodiments are described in the general context of method steps which may be implemented in one embodiment by a program product including computer executable instructions such as program code executed by computers in networked environments. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer executable instructions associated data structures and program modules represent examples of program code for executing steps of the methods disclosed herein. The particular sequence of such executable instructions or associated data structures represents examples of corresponding acts for implementing the functions described in such steps.

Software and web implementations of the present invention could be accomplished with standard programming techniques with rule based logic and other logic to accomplish the various database searching steps correlation steps comparison steps and decision steps. It should also be noted that the words component and module as used herein and in the claims are intended to encompass implementations using one or more lines of software code and or hardware implementations and or equipment for receiving manual inputs.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for the sake of clarity.

The foregoing description of illustrative embodiments has been presented for purposes of illustration and of description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or limiting with respect to the precise form disclosed and modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the disclosed embodiments. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the claims appended hereto and their equivalents.

