---

title: Method and system for emotion tracking, tagging, and rating and communication
abstract: A system provides a user an interactive graphic software interface to navigate to an image representative of any particular emotion from within a matrix containing representations of a continuous range of emotional states. The user can then send the selected image to one or more other users or to aggregator servers in order to communicate emotions or to tag or rate various things with emotional significance, so that quantitative statistics on emotional significance can be computed for those things. The system can also be used to track emotional state through a range of time periods or geospatial locations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09207755&OS=09207755&RS=09207755
owner: Iconicast, LLC
number: 09207755
owner_city: Wheaton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121219
---
This application claims priority from a provisional application entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR EMOTION TRACKING TAGGING RATING AND COMMUNICATION Application No. 61 578 221 filed Dec. 20 2011 which is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

Many researchers over the years have attempted to create spatial maps of emotional states in an attempt to better characterize and understand human emotion.

 Emotions and Facial Expressions by Joumana Medlej Cedarseed.com 2007 is a two dimensional model of the author s perceived relationships between five families of emotional expression sadness anger smile surprise and relaxation . The model is constructed as forked branches radiating from a central blank state following no apparent meaningful vector and extending to the extremities of each of the five branches. The diagram consists of 59 emotional states depicted both verbally and visually.

Robert Plutchik s Wheel of Emotions 1980 is a two dimensional model presenting 8 basic emotions as the core of a radial diagram ecstasy admiration terror amazement grief loathing rage and vigilance with each radius extending through two diminishing degrees of each emotion. Interposed between the 8 radial spokes are 8 advanced emotions love submission awe disapproval remorse contempt aggressiveness and optimism each being defined as the fusion of the basic emotions on either side. A three dimensional version of the wheel has also been published with the wheel being folded into the form of a cone but the conical version squeezes out the advanced emotions and creates three dimensional discontinuities along the newly formed linear axis. The wheel consists of 32 emotional states depicted verbally 24 of which have a uniform radial distribution within the chart.

An Emotional States diagram found on Humaine Association s www.emotional research.net and attributed to Klaus Scherer et al University of Geneva no date is a two dimensional model with a stochastic distribution of emotional states. Four axes active passive positive negative hi power control lo power control obstructive conducive cut through the circular chart suggesting eight regions of equal size though the regions carry no specified designations. The chart lists 111 emotional states depicted verbally though with some redundancy and several apparent contradictions presumably due to transcription .

Designing Sociable Robots Intelligent Robotics and Autonomous Agents series by Cynthia Breazeal 2004 provides the only truly three dimensional model but includes only 10 very basic emotional states. This 3D emotion space was constructed for a study at MIT to allow a robotic face Kismet to express emotions. The 10 emotions include the psychologist Paul Ekman s Six Basic Emotions described as universal his 1972 study of the Fore tribe of Papua New Guinea seeking to determine if facial expression was cultural or innate anger disgust fear happiness called content in the MIT study sadness and surprise plus four others stem accepting tired and calm. The model was constructed to integrate the functions of the servo motors controlling the robotic face and provide fluidity in the mechanical transitions between facial expressions so as not to disturb the child subjects interpreting them . The servos performed essentially three functions controlling three variables of motion defined as valence arousal and stance. The polar extremes of these functions define the three axes of the emotion space happy and unhappy define the valence axis tired and surprise define the arousal axis and stern and accepting define the stance axis. The nexus of these three axes is the zero point which yields a neutral expression labeled calm. Only three states lie off axis with their precise metrics undefined in the report to show any interaction between variables disgust low arousal closed stance negative valence anger high arousal closed stance negative valence and fear high arousal open stance negative valence . The 10 emotional states are for practical purposes depicted.

While such systems for creating spatial maps of emotional states exist no systems are known by the inventors which provide an interactive graphic software interface to navigate to an image representative of any particular emotion from within a matrix containing representations of a continuous range of emotional states to allow a user to communicate emotions or to tag or rate various things with emotional significance so that quantitative statistics on emotional significance can be computed for those things.

A variety of systems exist for very limited communication of emotion through limited bandwidth connections. These involve the use of emoticons or emoji which are highly abstracted iconifications of particular discrete emotions. Such systems range from widely known user messaging conventions such as using the character sequence to represent a smiling face or to represent a winking and smiling face to systems like the Skype VOIP and chatting software package which provides a palette of emoticon images that the user can place into messages.

Such systems are limited in that they at least do not provide the capability to interactively navigate through a series of images intended to represent a scientifically valid multidimensional continuum covering the full breadth of emotional feelings.

Systems exist for allowing large numbers of users to tag places people and things with ratings of various types. A few examples of such systems include such geospatial rating systems as Yelp Google Maps and Foursquare. These existing systems are limited in that they at least do not provide the user with an interactive graphic software interface to navigate to an image representative of any particular emotion from within a matrix containing representations of a continuous range of emotional states.

One embodiment of the invention is an apparatus for visually depicting an emotional state the apparatus comprising a computing system including a processor coupled to a display screen and one more user input devices with the processor configured to display a facial expression image on the display screen with the facial expression image in the form of a background shape having graphic indicia of facial features displayed within the background shape where facial features indicated by the graphic indicia include at least a mouth a pair of eyes and a pair of eyebrows accept a first signal from the one or more of the user input devices indicating a polarity value selected from a plurality of polarity values of an emotional state to be depicted by a facial expression image with the polarity value controlling whether the emotional state causes the facial expression image depicting the emotional state to tend toward a smile or a frown change the shape and position of the graphic indicia of the facial features on the facial expression image to express an emotional state characterized by a received polarity value accept a second signal from the one or more of the user input devices indicating an activity value selected from a plurality of activity values of an emotional state to be depicted by a facial expression image with the activity value controlling whether the emotional state causes the facial expression image depicting the emotional state to express an emotional stating tending toward being either active or extroverted at one end of a continuum or passive or introverted at the other end of the continuum change the shape and position of the graphic indicia of the facial features on the facial expression image to express an emotional state characterized by a received activity value accept a first signal from the one or more of the user input devices indicating a receptivity value selected from a plurality of receptivity values of an emotional state to be depicted by a facial expression image with the receptivity value controlling whether the facial expression image depicting the emotional state is harder and more pinched or softer and more open and change the shape and position of the graphic indicia of the facial features on the facial expression image to express an emotional state characterized by a received receptivity value.

Another embodiment of the invention is an apparatus for visually depicting an emotional state the apparatus comprising a memory storing a three dimensional array of facial expression images with each facial expression image in the array expressing an emotional state characterized by the values of first second and third array index values with the first array index value being a polarity value indicating whether the emotional state causes facial expression image depicting the emotional state to tend toward a smile or a frown with the second array index value being an activity value indicating whether the emotional state causes the facial expression image depicting the emotional state to express an emotional stating tending toward being either active or extroverted at one end of a continuum or passive or introverted at the other end of the continuum and with the third array index value being a receptivity value indicating whether the depiction of the emotional state in the facial expression image is harder or more pinched or softer and more open a computing system including a processor coupled to a display screen the memory and one more user input devices with the processor configured to accept a first signal from the one or more user input devices to a select a value of one of said first second or third array index values displaying in response to the first signal a grid of facial expression image characterized by a selected value of an array index value and by a range of non selected array index values accepting second a signal to select a facial expression displayed in the grid to indicate an emotional state.

A server computer coupled by one or more communication links to at least one remote computing system comprising a memory holding emotional state depicting program code for execution on a remote computing system with the emotional state depicting program configured when executed by a processor of the computing system to cause the computing system to display a facial expression image on a display screen of the computing system with the facial expression image in the form of a background shape having graphic indicia of facial features displayed within the background shape where facial features indicated by the graphic indicia include at least a mouth a pair of eyes and a pair of eyebrows accept a first signal from the one or more of the user input devices of the computing system indicating a polarity value selected from a plurality of polarity values of an emotional state to be depicted by a facial expression image with the polarity value controlling whether the emotional state causes the facial expression image depicting the emotional state to tend toward a smile or a frown change the shape and position of the graphic indicia of the facial features on the facial expression image to express an emotional state characterized by a received polarity value accept a second signal from the one or more of the user input devices indicating an activity value selected from a plurality of activity values of an emotional state to be depicted by a facial expression image with the activity value controlling whether the emotional state causes the facial expression image depicting the emotional state to express an emotional stating tending toward being either active or extroverted at one end of a continuum or passive or introverted at the other end of the continuum change the shape and position of the graphic indicia of the facial features on the facial expression image to express an emotional state characterized by a received activity value accept a first signal from the one or more of the user input devices indicating a receptivity value selected from a plurality of receptivity values of an emotional state to be depicted by a facial expression image with the receptivity value controlling whether the facial expression image depicting the emotional state is harder and more pinched or softer and more open and change the shape and position of the graphic indicia of the facial features on the facial expression image to express an emotional state characterized by a received receptivity value and the server computer further comprising a controller coupled to the memory configured to receive a request from the remote computing system over a communication link requesting a transfer of the emotional state depicting program code and configured to respond the request to transfer the emotional state depicting program code to the remote system.

Still other applications of the present invention are possible as disclosed in the specification below.

Various embodiments provide a mobile computer software interface whereby a user can interactively navigate through a multidimensional series of facial expression images designed to represent a scientifically valid continuum covering the full breadth of human emotional feelings. Each facial expression image occupies a position in a three dimensional matrix whereby each axis of the matrix corresponds to a continuous range of emotions.

The user is initially presented with a single neutral expression that represents the middle point of the matrix. Navigation is via user gestures on top of the face. Swiping the user s finger up for example moves to a facial expression image with a higher y value which corresponds to happier more positive emotion. Swiping down moves to a less happy more negative image. Swiping to the left corresponds to a lower x value which is a more passive emotion while swiping to the right corresponds to a more active emotion. Pinching on the image lowers the z value corresponding to a more closed squashed expression. Spreading the fingers apart on the other hand increases the z level and moves to a more open stretched expression.

Since interactive navigation causes the displayed facial expression image to be rapidly replaced with the facial expression image corresponding to the underlying coordinate as the user navigates around the matrix the result is that the user sees what appears to be a single face morphing between various emotions as the user moves around the space. This makes for an enjoyable intuitive and easy to use navigation system. In the following the navigation system will be described by way of example not limitation as the Smurks system.

Additional facial expression images are provided that don t fit neatly into such an emotional continuum. For example these include situation facial expression images corresponding to circumstances such as I m on the phone or let s get a beer or I win It also includes images that correspond to other non verbal cues such as I don t feel well. The user can navigate to these images by clicking on the More button which brings up the Wurk Smurks interface seen above .

In addition the system provides for random selection of the facial expression image by having the user shake the phone causing one of several Jurk facial expression images to be selected. These are useful for entertainment purposes and for playing games.

The three dimensional matrix of emotional states used to navigate between facial expression images in the Smurks system will now be described in more detail with reference to .

Two axes of the matrix are analogous to the familiar Valence and Arousal axes used in other emotional maps and measures. The third axis in the Smurks system however sufficiently distorts the traditional meanings of those terms in some cases even inverting them that we have adopted an alternative convention to avoid confusion.

The three axes in the Smurks system are therefore labeled Polarity Activity and Receptivity. In the Polarity axis is the y axis which maps to a vertical swipe of the displayed facial expression image the Activity axis is the x axis which maps to a horizontal swipe of the displayed facial expression image and the Receptivity axis is the z axis which maps to pinching or stretching the displayed facial expression image. Thus each point in the matrix is mapped to a Polarity value an Activity value and a Receptivity value and corresponds to an outward expression of the emotion indicated by the coordinate values of the matrix point.

Referring first to the Polarity y axis throughout most of the matrix Polarity correlates closely to Valence. The difference is that Valence is generally equated with attractiveness whereas Polarity refers only to the outward affect of the expression tending toward a smile or toward a frown. Attraction in the facial expression image matrix is more a combination of Polarity and Receptivity. In the origin of the matrix is mapped to an emotionally neutral state. The Polarity value increases as the absolute value of y increases in the positive direction and the Polarity value decreases as the absolute value of y increases in the negative direction. As y increases in the positive direction the expression tends toward a smile and as y increases in the negative direction the expression tends to a frown.

Referring next to the Activity x axis Activity is very akin to Arousal in most instances. However again Receptivity contains elements that affect the way Arousal would be traditionally interpreted. Activity on the other hand can suggest either arousal or the sense of being active as opposed to passive . In one example embodiment this axis is designed to correspond to the iPod s right left control of audio volume which was the analogy used to help users relate to this dimension. Throughout the matrix it can variously be described as loud versus soft extroverted versus introverted active versus passive outward versus inward or any similar contrast all of which generally fall under the broad heading of Activity. The Activity value increases as the absolute value of x increases in the positive direction and the Activity value decreases as the absolute value of x increases in the negative direction. As x increases in the positive direction the expression tends toward being more active and as x increases in the negative direction the expression tends to toward being more passive.

Referring finally to the Receptivity z axis Receptivity is the dimension that will be most unfamiliar to persons knowledgeable of prior art systems. Receptivity is easiest to understand in the manner in which it is graphically represented. Receptive expressions are open the eyebrows go up the face softens or stretches. Expressions with negative receptivity are closed or oppositional the eyebrows go down the face hardens or becomes pinched. In one example embodiment this dimension was designed to be operated by the pinch and stretch finger gestures on the iPhone . The Receptivity value increases as the absolute value of z increases in the positive direction and the Receptivity value decreases as the absolute value of z increases in the negative direction. As z increases in the negative direction the expression tends toward being more hardened or pinched and as z increases in the positive direction the expression tends toward being more softened or stretched.

In an example embodiment seven intervals were plotted along each axis creating what is essentially a seven point scale in three dimensions. There are 343 facial expression images in all 7 7 7 . The facial expression images that lie on any line parallel to an axis should animate like a short film strip consisting of seven frames going from one extreme of a dimension to the other. The matrix as a whole is the resultant interlocking mesh of those 147 individual seven point scales.

Within this matrix are many different zones characterized by broad descriptors of common emotions e.g. happy sad angry blissful cynical hurt confident scared etc. In one embodiment of Smurks system these zones are roughly conical in shape centered on the axes and radii extending to the corners of the cubic matrix resulting in 14 zones of emotion.

Due to the complexity of the borders of these conic zones however it is easier to describe the interpretation of facial expression images according to its dimensional components. Hence in this example embodiment the interpretive zones correspond to the axes the off axis quadrants of the axial planes and the off axial octants of the three dimensional space. This yields 26 zones or 27 if the point at intersection of the axes is counted which is the location of the neutral state balanced in polarity activity and receptivity .

Below is a description of each of these zones with a list of the sorts of emotional states expected to be found in these zones.

Due to the subjectivity in assigning labels to facial expressions and due to the many subtle shades and nuances of nonverbal facial communication often fluctuating in different contexts we have refrained from assigning definitive labels to facial expression images. Instead we offer only a range of descriptors that might apply to the facial expression images in a zone without assigning them to specific facial expression images. The grouping of descriptors should be sufficient for characterizing the zones and the meaning of the facial expression images therein.

Twenty six interpretive zones will now be described. The first six zones describe one dimensional movement along an axis.

ZONE 1 Movement in the positive y direction from y 1 to y 3 Positive Polarity Neutral Activity Neutral Receptivity up . This is a short progression of three facial expression images each of the six axial zones consists of a mere three facial expression images in an escalating mood with rather balanced activity and receptivity. The emotional states along this axis might be described variously as shades of EASYGOING GLAD and PLEASED.

ZONE 2 Movement in negative y direction from y 1 to y 3 Negative Polarity Neutral Activity Neutral Receptivity down . These facial expression images are also balanced in activity and receptivity and express a straightforwardly negative mood. Such feelings may be regarded as simple shades of BLUE and SAD.

ZONE 3 Movement in the positive x direction from x 1 to x 3 Neutral Polarity Positive Activity Neutral Receptivity right . The positive activity lacks both a polar and receptive bias. Thus it is energy without any other direction. The emotional consequences are understandably PUZZLED and STUNNED.

ZONE 4 Movement in the negative y direction from y 1 to y 3 Neutral Polarity Negative Activity Neutral Receptivity left . This is enervation with no polar or receptive bias. Emotional states along this radius might be described as SO SO UNDECIDED and TIRED.

ZONE 5 Movement in positive z direction from z 1 to z 3 Neutral Polarity Neutral Activity Positive Receptivity stretch . The open disposition without polar or active bias describes emotions like ATTENTIVE and OPEN MOUTHED AWED .

ZONE 6 Movement in the negative z direction form z 1 to z 3 Neutral Polarity Neutral Activity Negative Receptivity pinch . The closed disposition with neither a polar or active skew generates expressions that appear SERIOUS and STERN.

Due to the limitations of representing a 3 dimensional matrix in a 2 dimensional drawing all of the axial planes are not depicted in . Only the four quadrants of the x y plane are depicted and will now be described. In each of the depicted quadrants the value of the Receptivity z coordinate is zero and in this example the values of the x and y coordinates range from 7 to 7. Each axial plane represents a space where the value of one coordinate is held to zero and the values of the other coordinates take values from 1 to 3 or 1 to 3. There are twelve axial plane zones.

ZONE 7 Quadrant A Movement between x 0 to 3 y 0 to 3 and with z 0 Positive Polarity Positive Activity Neutral Receptivity up right . The positive mood with active energy but no discernible bias toward or against its object engenders expressions you might regard as SMIRKING BEMUSED SILLY and JOVIAL.

ZONE 8 Quadrant B Movement between x 0 to 3 y 0 to 3 and with z 0 Negative Polarity Positive Activity Neutral Receptivity down right . The negative mood that is aroused but has no receptive bias results in conflicted emotions of a negative impulse with no sure direction such as in feelings that are UNCERTAIN SQUEAMISH SHOCKED FRANTIC and BLENCHING.

ZONE 9 Quadrant C Movement between x 0 to 3 y 0 to 3 and with z 0 Positive Polarity Negative Activity Neutral Receptivity up left . An up disposition with more introverted activity and a neutral receptive interest results in a fairly relaxed mood that would include such emotional states as CALM MELLOW GLOATING DAYDREAMY BASHFUL SHY and VACANT SMILE.

ZONE 10 Quadrant D Movement between x 0 to 3 y 0 to 3 and with z 0 Negative Polarity Negative Activity Neutral Receptivity down left . Negative moods with an inward focus or low energy and a relative receptive indifference might include such states as DUBIOUS REGRETFUL SUBDUED SAD BEAT DEFEATED and DEJECTED.

ZONE 11 Quadrant E Movement between y 0 to 3 z 0 to 3 and with x 0 Positive Polarity Neutral Activity Positive Receptivity up stretch . A positive affect with an open attitude and neutral activity could be associated with feelings that are FRIENDLY AFFECTIONATE INSPIRED HOPEFUL OPTIMISTIC INTERESTED and EXPECTANT.

ZONE 12 Quadrant F Movement between y 0 to 3 z 0 to 3 and with x 0 Negative Polarity Neutral Activity Positive Receptivity down stretch . A negative affect that is open with neutral activity express vulnerability in emotions described as TIMID SORRY MISUNDERSTOOD DESPONDENT UPSET and DEVASTATED.

ZONE 13 Quadrant G Movement between y 0 to 3 z 0 to 3 and with x 0 Positive Polarity Neutral Activity Negative Receptivity up pinch . A positive affect with a less vulnerable attitude and neutral energy may be characterized by expressions that are ASSESSING SELF CONFIDENT SNICKERING and IMPISH.

ZONE 14 Quadrant H Movement between y 0 to 3 z 0 to 3 and with x 0 Negative Polarity Neutral Activity Negative Receptivity down pinch . Emotional states that are of a down effect and unreceptive attitude can be interpreted as GRUMPY SIMMERING CHAGRINED DISAPPROVING RESENTFUL and FOILED.

ZONE 15 Quadrant I Movement between x 0 to 3 z 0 to 3 and with y 0 Neutral Polarity Positive Activity Positive Receptivity right stretch . Energized and open feelings of neutral affect may include feeling SURPRISED CLUELESS BAFFLED and STARTLED.

ZONE 16 Quadrant J Movement between x 0 to 3 z 0 to 3 and with y 0 Neutral Polarity Negative Activity Positive Receptivity left stretch . Open feelings that are either low in arousal or inwardly directed may be expressed as EVASIVE LAZY LONGING MELANCHOLIC REVERENT IMPASSIONED RELIEVED and BLANK.

ZONE 17 Quadrant K Movement between x 0 to 3 z 0 to 3 and with y 0 Neutral Polarity Positive Activity Negative Receptivity right pinch . Feelings may be expresses as CONCENTRATING CONFUSED FLABBERGASTED. ANNOYED INDIGNANT DEFIANT and CONTMPTUOUS.

ZONE 18 Quadrant L Movement between x 0 to 3 z 0 to 3 and with y 0 Neutral Polarity Negative Activity Negative Receptivity left pinch . Feeling may be express as SKEPTICAL DROOPY HAUGHTY INSULTED VINDICTIVE and SUSPICIOUS.

The final eight zones are cubical octants depicted in as octants I VIII. In the octants each coordinate may vary from 0 to 3 or from 0 to 3.

ZONE 19 Octant I Movement between x 0 to 3 y 0 to 3 z 0 to 3 Positive Polarity Positive Activity Positive Receptivity up right stretch . This octant full of upbeat energy and acceptance contains highly favorable emotions that are AMUSED ENTERTAINED ELATED UPBEAT ASTONISHED CURIOUS IMPRESSED ADMIRATION EAGER HAPPY AMAZED OVERJOYED and HILARIOUS LAUGHTER.

ZONE 20 Octant II Movement between x 0 to 3 y 0 to 3 z 0 to 3 Negative Polarity Positive Activity Positive Receptivity down right stretch . With negative polarity higher energy and openness translate to vulnerability that express being WORRIED APPREHENSIVE NERVOUS PANICKED DISTRESSED ALARMED SHOCKED SCARED and TERRIFIED.

ZONE 21 Octant III Movement between x 0 to 3 y 0 to 3 z 0 to 3 Positive Polarity Negative Activity Positive Receptivity up left stretch . Low energy combined with positive feeling and openness produce a range of blissful and contented feelings such as DEMURE AMOROUS FACIAL SHRUG HOPEFUL DAYDREAMY SWOONING RAPTUROUS CONTENTED PEACEFUL PASSIONATE WARM INNOCENT REFRESHED RELAXED COMPASSIONATE GRATEFUL AFFECTIONATE MISTY and TEARS OF JOY.

ZONE 22 Octant IV Movement between x 0 to 3 y 0 to 3 z 0 to 3 Negative Polarity Negative Activity Positive Receptivity down left stretch . Vulnerable enervated and downhearted dynamics yield a range of hurt or wounded feelings from the borderline disappointment to the extremely grieved and including DISAPPOINTED FUDDLED MEH MELODRAMATIC LONELY GLUM REJECTED SYMPATHETIC BEREFT EMBARRASSED ANGUISHED REMORSEFUL AGONIZED DESPAIRING and GRIEF.

ZONE 23 Octant V Movement between x 0 to 3 y 0 to 3 z 0 to 3 Positive Polarity Positive Activity Negative Receptivity up right pinch . An upbeat affect and energy combined with a invulnerable attitude encompass a range of expressions that could be viewed as BRAVADO QUERYING PUCKISH CONFIDENT CONCEITED BOLD BRASH TRIUMPHANT STIFLED LAUGH DETERMINED DEFIANT and AGGRESSIVE.

ZONE 24 Octant VI Movement between x 0 to 3 y 0 to 3 z 0 to 3 Positive Polarity Negative Activity Negative Receptivity up left pinch . A smiling affect with an inward directed energy and closed attitude produces perhaps the most intriguing mix of emotions. These are mostly false emotions cynical subversive duplicitous. Selfish. These mixed emotional states might be described variously as CHEESY SIMPERING DEBAUCHED SEDUCTIVE ALOOF ARCH CONDESCENDING FALSE SMILE FALSE LAUGH PASSIVE AGGRESSIVE SMUG SUPERIOR HAUGHTY SNIDE SLY SNEAKY LEERY DEVILISH MOCKING JEERING and MALEVOLENT LAUGH.

ZONE 25 Octant VII Movement between x 0 to 3 y 0 to 3 z 0 to 3 Negative Polarity Positive Activity Negative Receptivity down right pinch . Oppositional and negatively disposed the active energy brings out angry feelings you might consider COLD OUTRAGED GRUMPY TAKEN ABACK DISGRUNTLED OFFENDED INDIGNANT SNEERING IMPATIENT FUMING AGGRAVATED STRESSED RILED GLARING FRUSTRATED EXASPERATED and ENRAGED.

ZONE 26 Octant VIII Movement between x 0 to 3 y 0 to 3 z 0 to 3 Negative Polarity Negative Activity Negative Receptivity down left pinch . This zone contains the negative extremes of each dimension and typified by bitterness and resentment in all its related forms which may be described variously as SICKENED SULLEN POUTING SULKY BORED PARANOID BITTER ENVIOUS WINCING DISDAINFUL REPELLED GROSSED OUT PAINED JEALOUS DISGUSTED and HATEFUL.

In this example embodiment each facial expression image is formed on a rectangular background shape and includes graphic indicia indicating a mouth a pair of eyes and a pair of eyebrows. The shape and position of the mouth pair of eyes and pair change for different coordinate values of Activity Polarity and Receptivity.

For example increasing the Positive polarity coordinate value increases the polarity component and causes the facial expression image toward something more resembling a smile and increasing the negative polarity coordinate value decreases the polarity component and directs the facial expression image in the opposite direction. Increasing the Positive receptivity coordinate value increases the receptivity component and causes a more open facial expression image and increasing the negative receptivity coordinate value decreases the receptivity component and causes a more closed or compressed facial expression image. Increasing the Positive activity coordinate value increases the activity component and adds energy to the facial expression image and increasing the negative activity coordinate value decreases the activity component and saps energy from the facial expression image.

In this example the user is initially presented with a single neutral expression that represents the middle point of the matrix. In the user has navigated to a facial expression image expressing an emotional state. Navigation is via user gestures on top of the displayed facial expression image. Swiping the user s finger up for example moves to a facial expression image with a higher y value which corresponds to happier more positive emotion. Swiping down moves to a less happy more negative image. Swiping to the left corresponds to a lower x value which is a more passive emotion while swiping to the right corresponds to a more active emotion. Pinching on the image lowers the z value corresponding to a more closed squashed expression. Spreading the fingers apart on the other hand increases the z level and moves to a more open stretched expression.

Since interactive navigation causes the displayed facial expression image to be rapidly replaced with the facial expression image corresponding to the underlying coordinate as the user navigates around the matrix the result is that the user sees what appears to be a single facial expression image morphing between various emotional states as the user moves around the space. This makes for an enjoyable intuitive and easy to use navigation system.

When the user finds the desired image then pressing and holding on the image will cause a small version of the image to appear to float under the user s finger. Continuing to press and dragging that floating image will allow the user to release and drop the image on another part of the interface such as the Bookmarks icon or a posting outlet icon such as FaceBook or Twitter. A convenient feature is that as seen above the outlet can display a small version of the image of the most recently posted facial expression image. A crosshair icon the function of which is described below is also displayed in this example.

A user can send the selected facial expression image to one or more other people by dragging the facial expression image to one of the available outlet icons. The pre defined outlets in an example embodiment included Twitter Face Book email SMS text and the clipboard. Dragging to Twitter or Face Book would cause a comment window to pop up where the user could add an optional comment prior to posting the facial expression image. Dragging to SMS text or email would open the native interfaces for editing a message with the facial expression image embedded in the message. And dragging to the clipboard would copy the facial expression image so it could be pasted into any app that allows pasting of images.

An example preferred embodiment of the Smurks app allows for the creation of configurable outlets. This allows for new outlets to be loaded from an Smurks system server and saved for use on the local user s system. Since this facility allows for an unlimited number of potential outlets an interface is provided to allow the user to scroll through a user configurable list of outlet icons as seen above . This enables the Smurks system to become a tool for rating almost anything conceivable with an emotional tag that can be quantifiable across large populations and demographic groups to better capture and characterize the emotions elicited by various stimuli objects concepts people places ideas beliefs appliances electronic devices clothing etc. .

At process step the program starts up and displays a neutral facial expression image where the value of the triplet is 0 0 0 and at process step the program waits for user input. In some embodiment the last facial expression image displayed during a previous use of the program is initially displayed.

At process step the software responds to a user input of swiping the displayed neutral facial expression image to the right to increment the x value of the triplet to form an updated triplet equal to 1 0 0 .

At process step the software creates a new file name including the updated triplet and at process step the software retrieves the image file having the new file name and displays the facial expression image.

The process for responding to an up swipe and pinch and stretch are similar and will not be described in detail.

Similar techniques can be used with other operating systems and also will not be described in detail.

Sometimes navigating via the main screen can cause the user to lose loose spatial awareness of where the current position is within the space of the entire matrix. depict an example of navigation user interface that display neighboring facial expression images in the facial expression image matrix of a displayed facial expression image. In this example the navigation user interfaces are accessed using the crosshair icon .

The navigation user interface is depicted in . A group of nine facial expression images in the Activity x Polarity y plane of Receptivity z at a constant value is displayed. In this example each coordinate value varies from 3 to 3. A set of bars is used to select the Polarity z coordinate value and a grid of squares represents the forty nine facial expression images of a selected Activity x Polarity y plane. Touching different areas of the grid selects which 3 3 subset of the forty nine facial expression image in the plane to display.

The implementation of the transfer uses existing technology and will not be described in detail. If the mobile device were an iPhone then the iTunes system could be used to transfer the program code and data for implementing the Smurks system.

In some embodiments described in more detail below the program code transferred to a mobile device or computer includes code for sending messages to the server and receiving messages from the server.

A first use of the Smurks system is to express the user s current emotional state and communicate this current emotional state to others using outlets such as Facebook Twitter email and so on.

For an example the Smurks system can be used as a rating system for user experiences at restaurants stores and other commercial entities. An important feature in implementing such a rating system is allow a user to express an emotional response triggered by an experience and to facilitate analysis of many responses to generate an average value facial expression image to rate the experience.

The Smurks system is used to express a customer s emotional state about a restaurant a bar a boutique a post office or wherever else the customer happens to be either using for example the FourSquare database or simply tagging geo coordinates with a facial expression image and programs running on the Smurks system server compute an average facial expression image of those positions that can be consulted as an emotional rating system.

One example for rating experiences uses a pre defined outlet in the Smurks app corresponds to a GPS function in the iPhone so that when a user drops a facial expression image on that outlet icon the system will determine the current geospatial location of the user s phone and can respond in a variety of ways including but not limited to 1 storing the facial expression image and associated location in a local database on the phone 2 send the facial expression image and associated location to an aggregator server that will store them together with an anonymized user ID for further analysis and aggregation with facial expression image posts from other users or 3 compare the geospatial location with a list of registered facial expression images outlets either on the user s phone or on a remote server to find an existing outlet that falls within a configurable threshold distance from the user s location so that that particular facial expression image post can be automatically correlated with that existing registered outlet and posted thereto. In this way for example a user at a restaurant can drag a facial expression image to the GPS icon and if an outlet has been already registered for that restaurant the facial expression image will be automatically posted to that outlet.

Another important use of the Smurks system is to perform market research or sample public opinion. Quantifying emotional response has been an elusive pursuit in market research. Existing available tools offer a menu of emotions most of them negative and responders choose from that limited menu most are verbal but one or two have visual support and the results are tabulated in bar or pie charts.

The Smurks system has a much wider and deeper menu with as many positive as negative choices though some of the snarky options aren t entirely positive but the attempt to project positivity offers useful information and can present the results as a single facial expression image expressing an averaged emotional state.

The Smurks system can be used in the same way for public opinion polling or even for monitoring the general emotional well being of a population. An important advantage is that there is no perfect Smurks system rating such as a five out of five stars. On some things say a tragic romantic movie a desired response would be a sad or weepy facial expression image response or for a horror movie the desired response might want a scared facial expression image or the makers of a serious documentary might be thrilled to see an angry facial expression image in response to their film.

The up left pinch octant ZONE 24 Octant of contains many expressions that are snide or sarcastic or both . Similar expressions are smug or simply false as in false smiles or laughs that may be mocking or malicious. They assume a position of superiority and are resistive passively oppositional . These false and sarcastic facial expressions are difficult to impossible to express using a standard mood map that measures emotional states in terms of Valence and Intensity. The third dimension of Receptivity is necessary to allow such expressions to fit into single same map that also expresses more sincere emotional states. Thus using a snarky zone such as zone 24 it is possible to test a funny commercial to see if respondents are laughing with you or at you.

It has been discovered that Receptivity axis provides a useful tool for market research. Emotional responses that fall in the more receptive zone whether or not their Polarity is extremely positive can indicate a greater openness to the message and a greater willingness to buy.

A market research example embodiment will now be described with reference to . In process step the server receives a request to transfer a market research questionnaire to a mobile device or computer of an intended respondent to the questionnaire.

In process step the server transfers a Smurks system enabled questionnaire to the intended respondent. The questionnaire includes an embedded SMURK system interface that will allow a user to express an emotional reaction as an answer to a question or reaction to some other stimulus.

In some embodiments the program code for implementing the Smurks system will be transferred along with the questionnaire. For example in a web browser context a plug in application could be utilized to implement the Smurks system. In other example embodiment the SMURKS system will be resident on the mobile device or computer and the questionnaire will include program code for interacting with the resident program code.

In program step the server receives a triplet identifying the facial expression image selected by the respondent to express the emotional state experienced in response to the question or stimulus provided.

In other example embodiment distributed processing is used where program code and data may be stored in any device coupled to the network and execution of program code may take place on different servers and computer coupled to the network and communication with each other.

Device may further include a contactless element typically implemented in the form of a semiconductor chip with an associated wireless data transfer e.g. data transmission element such as an antenna. Contactless element is associated with e.g. embedded within portable device and data such as a coupon or control instructions transmitted via cellular network may be applied to contactless element by means of contactless element interface . Contactless element interface functions to permit the exchange of data and or control instructions between the portable device circuitry and hence the cellular network and contactless element .

The contactless element may also include a Near Field Communication NFC module or other near field wireless reader module that allows the portable multifunctional device to communicate with a point of sale terminal POS at a merchant location by tapping the portable multifunctional device to a reader.

Contactless element is capable of transferring and receiving data using a near field communications capability or near field communications medium typically in accordance with a standardized protocol or data transfer mechanism identified as ISO 14443 NFC in the figure . Near field communications capability is a short range communications capability such as RFID infra red or other data transfer capability that can be used to exchange data between the portable device and a local apparatus by tapping the portable device to the local apparatus for example located at point of sale of a merchant or another location at which coupons are expected to be redeemed. Thus portable device is capable of communicating and transferring data and or control instructions via both cellular network and near field communications capability.

Portable device may also include a secure data space which may be used by the device to store operating parameters and or other data utilized in operation of the device. The secure data space may be in the form of a chip that is separate and apart from the chip in the contactless element or alternatively could be a section of memory in the chip that forms part of the contactless element . Note that the chip in the contactless element may include data storage capability in the form of a memory that may be accessed via interface to permit the implementation of read write and erase functions for example.

In accordance with still other embodiments the portable device may further include a processor and computer readable storage medium for storing code and configured to direct the processor to perform various tasks. For example the computer readable storage medium may comprise a magnetic disk drive or a flash memory chip. A smart phone includes an operating system such as Google Android or Apple iOS operating system.

The computer readable storage medium may contain code that is configured to cause a processor of the portable consumer device to receive and recognize a message including a coupon and code that is delivered to the portable device. The computer readable storage medium may also include code that is configured to decrypt an encrypted message including the code that is received by the portable device.

In accordance with certain embodiments the portable device further includes a Global Positioning System GPS element . GPS element is configured to allow determination of the location of the user at any time. In particular GPS element relies upon signals from a plurality of orbiting satellites in order to allow the user s location to be determined. Location information obtained from the GPS element may in turn be communicated through the antenna to allow monitoring of the user s position. The GPS receiver determines a geographic location for the device by calculating a distance between the device and at least three satellites using low power radio signals received from the satellites using a technique known as Trilateration which is known in the art.

The portable multifunctional device includes an input interface such as for example a touch screen keypad which for present purposes will be understood to include the other buttons switches and keys referred to or may be implemented as soft keys on the display for receiving user input a display component for displaying output information to the user and conventional receive transmit circuitry. Other suitable input interfaces include a light pen track ball data glove microphone etc. The portable multifunctional device also includes an input output interface that may include a keypad a mouse a screen a touch screen and or any other type of interface that allows a user of the device to interact with the device.

Any of the software components or functions described in this application may be implemented as software code to be executed by a processor using any suitable computer language such as for example Java C or Perl using for example conventional or object oriented techniques. The software code may be stored as a series of instructions or commands on a computer readable medium such as a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a magnetic medium such as a hard drive or a floppy disk or an optical medium such as a CD ROM. Any such computer readable medium may reside on or within a single computational apparatus and may be present on or within different computational apparatuses within a system or network.

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to a specific exemplary embodiment thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. For example various programming languages and techniques can be used to implement the disclosed invention. Also the specific logic presented to accomplish tasks within the present invention may be modified without departing from the scope of the invention. Many such changes or modifications will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense the invention being limited only by the provided claims.

