---

title: Video player
abstract: Methods, systems, and tangible computer-readable memory media are disclosed that relate to a video player configured to play a video file. During playback, the video player, in one embodiment, is configured to access metadata relating to, but separate from, the video file to dynamically display graphical content distinct from the video file. A server system may receive, from a client computer system (e.g., of the video owner), information specifying metadata for the video file. This metadata may specify the display of overlay graphics and/or navigation graphics, the overlay of audio, etc. Additionally, the metadata may specify items needed to perform a process depicted in an instructional video; upon playing the video, the video player may provide one or more purchase links for such items. In one embodiment, a server system may edit the underlying video file—e.g., to include overlay graphics.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08607285&OS=08607285&RS=08607285
owner: Howcast Media, Inc.
number: 08607285
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120517
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. application. Ser. No. 12 332 239 entitled VIDEO PLAYER by Raman et al. filed Dec. 10 2008 the disclosure of the above referenced application is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

This disclosure relates generally to the playback of video files on a computer system and more particularly to the association of metadata with such video files.

Various embodiments systems methods and tangible computer readable memory media are disclosed relating to a video player configured to play a video file and during playback to access metadata separate from the video file to generate and dynamically display graphical content during playback of the video file. For example an embodiment is disclosed in which a user uploads a video file and associated metadata to a server system e.g. over the Internet . In various embodiments the metadata is stored in a data store e.g. database file etc. separate from the video file. The data store may be located on or accessible to the server system. The server system can subsequently receive a request from a client computer system to play a video corresponding to the video file and in response to the request provide information to the client computer system that causes a video player to play the video file at the client computer system and to access the associated metadata which may in one embodiment include transferring metadata from the data store on the server system to one or more metadata files which may be temporary on the client computer system. The associated metadata may be used in various embodiments to dynamically display graphical content that is distinct from the video. For example the associated metadata may be used by the video player to dynamically display overlay graphics and or navigation graphics. The associated metadata for a video file may be changed e.g. by accessing a website hosting the video file resulting in a different dynamic display of graphic content during subsequent playback of the video file by the video player without having to re encode the video file.

The received metadata may be usable for various other purposes including the overlay of a different audio track indicating video title credits and other graphical elements of the video. The received metadata may indicate items needed to perform a process depicted in an associated video upon playing the video the video player may provide one or more purchase links for these items. The purchase links may be received from for example a creator owner of the video file. In another embodiment locations associated with such links may be determined immediately prior to or during playback of the video file i.e. dynamically . For example a location associated with a link may be dynamically determined by accessing at the time the link is selected a data store at some location to determine the appropriate location to which to link.

In one embodiment a server system stores program instructions executable to receive information indicating editing instructions for a video file e.g. specifying the display of overlay graphics . The server system stores program instructions that are executable to alter the video file based on the received editing instructions such that subsequent playback of the altered video file incorporates the information e.g. displaying overlay graphics and or audio .

In one embodiment received metadata is usable to dynamically display at least two navigation graphics during playback of the video file. These navigation graphics may be user selectable to navigate to a corresponding point in time in the video file. In the context of an instructional video for performing a process having two or more steps for example a navigation graphic may be user selectable to navigate to a portion of the video corresponding to the beginning of the depiction of one of the steps. During the process of uploading metadata about a particular video a server system may provide information usable to display a graphical interface on a client computer system for receiving metadata indicating various user designated points in the video file. Storing this metadata in some data store permits a video player during playback of the video file to access the metadata to dynamically display navigation graphics corresponding to the user designated points in the video file. In the context of an instructional video navigation graphics may identify a step name a step number an image associated with the step which may be selected automatically or by an owner creator of the video etc.

In one embodiment the video player is configured to execute at a client computer system to display navigation graphics in a sidebar display region separate from a display region for the instructional video. In certain embodiments the sidebar display region includes control areas user selectable to control which navigation graphics are currently displayed within the sidebar display region. In certain embodiments the video player is configured to execute at a client computer system to display a timeline indicating a current location within the video. This timeline may be displayed in one embodiment in a display region separate from the display region for the video. In certain embodiments the display region including the timeline may be separate from the sidebar display region if applicable . The displayed timeline may include visual indicia e.g. dots along the timeline that correspond to various points in the video file. In certain embodiments the visual indicia may be user selectable to navigate to the corresponding points in the video file. In some embodiments during a process in which currently specified metadata is edited e.g. through a website hosting the video a user may move one or more of the visual indicia along the timeline thus re designating points in the video file causing navigation graphics if applicable that will be displayed during subsequent playback of the video file to be changed.

This specification includes references to one embodiment or an embodiment. The appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment. Particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner consistent with this disclosure.

Terminology. The following paragraphs provide definitions and or context for terms found in this disclosure including the appended claims 

 Comprising. This term is open ended. As used in the appended claims this term does not foreclose additional structure or steps. Consider a claim that recites An apparatus comprising one or more processor units . . . Such a claim does not foreclose the apparatus from including additional components e.g. a network interface unit graphics circuitry etc. .

 Computer System. This term has its ordinary and accepted meaning in the art and includes one or more computing devices operating together and any software stored thereon. A computing device includes one or more processor units and a memory subsystem. A memory subsystem may store program instructions executable by the one or more processor units. An exemplary computer system is described in more detail with reference to .

 Processor unit. This term includes any circuitry that is configured to execute program instructions e.g. a central processing unit CPU . As used herein a processor unit may refer to a computer subsystem having one or more processors. A processor may have one or more processing cores on a single die. A processor unit may be distributed across multiple dies.

 Server system. This term has its ordinary and accepted meaning in the art which includes one or more computer systems that are configured to handle requests from client computer systems e.g. for services data including files web pages etc. and so on.

 Client computer system. This term has its ordinary and accepted meaning in the art which includes a computer system that requests services data etc. from a server system.

 Instructional video. As used herein this term refers to a video that provides guidance to a viewer in performing some process a how to video . A process is an extremely broad term that refers to a series of one or more events designed to achieve a particular outcome. Videos depicting how to install a solar panel and how to make conversation are both instructional videos. The term video may be used in this disclosure to refer to an actual video file or to the visual output that results from playing the video file via a video player.

 Video player. This term has its ordinary and accepted meaning in the art which includes software that implements a media player for playing a video file that may reside on a volatile or non volatile computer readable memory medium that may in turn be internal e.g. RAM ROM or external e.g. CD DVD Blu ray to a computer system. A FLASH player WINDOWS Media Player and REAL PLAYER are just some examples of video players. A video player may in some embodiments display its output within a window of another application such as a browser running on a client computer system.

 Video file. This term has its ordinary and accepted meaning and the art which includes any file that that represents video. This term includes any type of FLASH video file format FLV H.264 video HE AAC audio including any video embedded within SWF files. There are many examples of other video files including without limitation MPEG files QUICKTIME files AVI files files encoded on media such as DVD Blu ray etc.

 Metadata. This term has its ordinary and accepted meaning in the art. As used herein this term refers to data about a video file including a video file corresponding to an instructional video. For example metadata about an instructional video can include without limitation title description keywords items needed to perform the process depicted in the instructional video purchase links credits e.g. director writer etc. as well as information designating particular points in time during the video e.g. points in time corresponding to the beginning of a step in the depicted process a fact a tip or a warning etc. As described herein in certain embodiments metadata is stored in files distinct from the video file that it describes.

 Data Store. As used herein this term refers to any type of file data structure database or other repository in which data or metadata may be stored.

 Dynamically display. As used herein dynamically displaying something such as graphical content during playback of a video file means that the graphical content changes during playback or is displayed only during a portion of the playback of the video file. Accordingly content that does not change or is not changeable e.g. in response to user input during the entirety of the playback of a video file is not dynamically displayed. Examples of content distinct from the display of the video file that may be displayed dynamically include overlay graphics and navigation graphics.

 Graphical content. As used herein this term refers to visual content and may include without limitation text images etc. Graphical content may have an associated audio component e.g. an icon or other indicia associated with an audio file but does not refer to audio only content.

 Usable by. In the context of file X is usable by software Y to do Z this phrase refers to a situation in which software Y is configured to perform function Z when executed on a computer system in response to receiving input data of a certain format and connotes that file X has data of a certain format that software Y is configured to use operate on to perform function Z. Thus if a video player is configured to display overlay graphics during playback of a video file in response to a value in a metadata file indicating that such graphics are to be displayed it can be said that the metadata file is usable by the video player to determine whether the graphics are to be displayed. In contrast a file encoding only audio is not usable in this fashion.

 Purchase link. Some indicia e.g. a hyperlink or icon that is user selectable to navigate to a location e.g. a web page where some item associated with the link can be purchased. For example consider an instructional video for performing a process that requires duct tape and ball bearings. Purchase links for these items might include a uniform resource locator URL linking a web page that permits a user to purchase one or both of these items. In one embodiment a purchase link may correspond to an executable or program instruction that facilitates the purchase of an item from some location while in another embodiment a purchase link may simply be a hypertext link or other type of link.

 Overlay graphic. As used herein this term refers to graphical content image text advertisement etc. that is displayed on top of the video file overlaid at some designated point in the video file. Consider an instructional video for performing a process having three steps that begin at 0 14 m ss 1 23 and 3 00 into the video respectively. Graphical content denoting the beginning of one of these steps and that is displayed by the video player on top of the video file but which is not itself part of the video file is an overlay graphic. An overlay graphic can also be used to denote a fact tip warning or other text that is to be displayed during the video.

 Navigation graphic. As used herein this term refers to graphical content that is user selectable to navigate to some predetermined point in a corresponding video file. Consider a video player which is configured to play a video file as well as distinct graphical content that corresponds to one or more points in the video. In this example the graphical content corresponding to each of these one or more points is a navigation graphic if it is user selectable to navigate to some corresponding point in the video. Note that traditional user selectable controls such as play fast forward next chapter track rewind previous chapter track pause skip etc. are not navigation graphics under the above definition as they do not have a corresponding video file and they are thus not associated with a predetermined point in such a file.

 Navigate. As used herein this term refers to moving within a particular video file. This term is broad enough to refer to for example fast forwarding a video file as well as moving to a predetermined point in a video file by selecting a navigation graphic.

 User selectable. As used herein this phrase refers to some aspect of a graphical interface e.g. of a video player that can be selected e.g. by clicking or mousing over etc. by a user via some means a pointing device touch screen etc. . For example in some embodiments a navigation graphic may be selectable by a user to navigate to a particular point in an instructional video. In contrast an aspect of an interface that cannot be designated by a user e.g. a static logo in some embodiments is not user selectable.

 Sidebar display region. As used herein this phrase refers to a display region in which a video player can display graphical content. In some embodiments this region is distinct from a display region in which a video file is displayed.

 Scrolling. This term has its ordinary and accepted meaning in the art which includes moving through a list of items e.g. navigation graphics by selecting some user selectable visual indicia e.g. a scroll bar .

 Timeline. As used herein a visual representation which may be separate from a display region for displaying a video file in some embodiments of the progress of a currently selected video file. In some embodiments a timeline may include visual indicia corresponding to one or more points within the video file.

 Visual Indicia. Some visual representation of something else. For example in a timeline displayed by a video player may include dots visual indicia representing user designated points in time in a video file.

 Configured. As used herein this term means that a particular piece of hardware or software is arranged to perform a particular task or tasks when operated. Thus a computer system that is configured to perform task A means that the computer system includes a circuit program instructions stored in memory or other structure that during operation of the computer system performs or can be used to perform task A. As such a computer system can be configured to perform task A even if the computer system is not currently on. Similarly a computer program that is configured to perform task B includes instructions that if executed by a computer system perform task B.

Turning now to a block diagram of one embodiment of a client server architecture is depicted. As shown system includes a server system a network and client computer systems and . As will be described below system is one embodiment of a system for uploading and playing back video files in accordance with various embodiments described herein. For example a user may cause a video file to be uploaded from system to system via network along with associated metadata. Subsequently the video file may be selected from server system via network for playback for example at any client computer system e.g. system connected to network .

Server system is any type of computer system that can service requests from a client computer system. System may include one or more computer systems in any suitable type of arrangement. System may be a server farm. System may store program instructions executable to service requests for electronic data via one or more predetermined protocols. For example system may be a web server accessible at a predetermined location e.g. specified by the URL www.howcast.com and include program instructions executable to service requests for web pages via an Internet protocol such as HTTP. As described below in the context of system may store program instructions and data for facilitating the playback of video files at client computer systems. A representative structure of system is described further below with reference to .

Network is any suitable type of connection between system and client computer systems and . Network may include a local area network a wide area network or combinations thereof. Network can also represent two or more disparate networks coupled together. Network is the Internet in one embodiment permitting client computer systems and to access locations on the World Wide Web WWW including in certain embodiments server system . Network can be wireless or have wireless components in various embodiments.

Client computer systems and are any suitable type of computing device storing program instructions executable to connect to a server e.g. system over a network e.g. network . For example systems may store program instructions that are executable to implement a browser program for displaying web pages e.g. those hosted by system . As will be described below a user of system may use a browser to select one or more video files stored at system perhaps by a user of system for playback at system . A representative structure of systems and is described below with reference to . Note that systems and need not be related to one another in any way and can be geographically disparate. Additionally systems and can have different architectures. 

Turning now to a block diagram of one embodiment of server system is depicted. As shown server system includes a memory subsystem . Other structural features of server system processors network interfaces etc. are not shown in for convenience.

Memory subsystem is representative of any memory within or accessible to server system . In one embodiment subsystem stores program instructions executable by system to service requests e.g. HTTP requests . As shown subsystem stores various types of instructions and data relevant to the playback of video files in accordance with various embodiments set forth in the present disclosure. For example subsystem stores information e.g. HTML and associated instructions code executables usable to display web pages on a client computer system e.g. system . This information may be usable not only to display web pages for uploading video files and associated metadata in the first instance but also for providing an indication of videos that are accessible via server system .

Video files may include any suitable type of video format. In one embodiment each video is encoded using various video formats corresponding to different platforms. Thus a given video might be encoded at a higher quality for a standard e.g. desktop computing platform as well as a lower quality for a mobile computing platform such as a wireless handset.

Metadata can be stored in any suitable location or format. In one embodiment metadata is stored in a database that includes metadata for a plurality of video files e.g. metadata for all video files stored by server system or a subset thereof . The format of the metadata may in one embodiment be XML or using some other extensible language.

Accordingly in one embodiment a user on a first client computer system e.g. system may receive information from server system that is usable to display a series of one or more web pages that facilitate the upload of one or more video files and associated metadata . This information provided to the first client computer system is stored in memory subsystem of system as indicated by reference numerals and .

Subsequently a user on a second client computer system e.g. system or system is used for the remainder of the discussion of may receive information from server system that is usable to display a series of one or more web pages that facilitate the display and selection of video files that are available via server system . In one embodiment server system may store information usable by system to display a web page that permits users to search for videos relating to specified keywords. Upon a user of system selecting a video file stored at server system for playback this selection is communicated to system which causes information to be provided to system . The provided information includes information usable by system to display a web page for the video. The provided information also includes video player code which is executable on system to implement a video player.

In one embodiment when video player code is transferred to a client computer system e.g. system code executes to implement a video player. In one embodiment video player code is executable to implement a FLASH player i.e. software capable of playing back .flv files . In certain embodiments code includes program instructions executable on system to begin playing the selected video file. In certain embodiments a selected video file may be completely downloaded to system before the video begins playing. In other embodiments a selected video file may be streamed meaning that the video player begins playing the video file before it has finished downloading Video player code can execute to delete copyrighted material from random access memory of system after it is played thus preventing system from having a permanent copy of the video file. In certain embodiments video player code is also executable on client computer system to access during playback metadata in one or more metadata files associated with the selected video file to supplement the display of the video file the metadata may also be downloaded to system in some embodiments . In this respect such a video player differs from an embodiment in which video file metadata is read prior to playback and statically displayed during playback. As will be described below in certain embodiments video player code is executable on client computer system to access the one or more associated metadata files during playback to dynamically display graphical content during playback of the selected video file. In other embodiments the one or more metadata files include information usable to cause audio to be overlaid during video file playback.

Turning now to a block diagram of one embodiment of a computer system is depicted. Computer system is representative of any of the computer systems described herein e.g. server system client computer systems and as well as any computer system or computing device that may employ the techniques described herein. Computer system may be any suitable type of device including but not limited to the following types of devices a personal computer system desktop computer laptop or notebook computer mainframe computer system server farm web server handheld computer workstation network computer a consumer device such as a mobile phone pager or personal data assistant PDA . Computer system may also be any type of networked peripheral device such as a storage device switch modem router etc. Although a single computer system is shown in for convenience system may also be implemented as two or more computer systems operating together.

As shown computer system includes a processor unit memory input output I O interface coupled via an interconnect e.g. a system bus . I O interface is coupled to one or more I O devices .

As described above processor unit includes one or more processors. In some embodiments processor unit includes one or more coprocessor units. In some embodiments multiple instances of processor unit may be coupled to interconnect . Processor unit or each processor within may contain a cache or other form of on board memory. In general computer system is not limited to any particular type of processor unit or processor subsystem.

Memory is usable by processor unit e.g. to store instructions executable by and data used by unit . Memory may be implemented by any suitable type of physical memory media including hard disk storage floppy disk storage removable disk storage flash memory random access memory RAM SRAM EDO RAM SDRAM DDR SDRAM Rambus RAM etc. ROM PROM EEPROM etc. and so on. Memory may consist solely of volatile memory in one embodiment.

Memory in computer system is not necessarily limited to memory . Rather computer system may be said to have a memory subsystem that includes various types locations of memory. For example the memory subsystem of computer system may in one embodiment include memory cache memory in processor unit storage on I O devices e.g. a hard drive storage array etc. and so on. Accordingly the phrase memory subsystem is representative of various types of possible memory media within computer system . The memory subsystem of computer may store program instructions executable by processor unit including program instructions executable to implement the various techniques disclosed herein.

I O interface may represent one or more interfaces and may be any of various types of interfaces configured to couple to and communicate with other devices according to various embodiments. In one embodiment I O interface is a bridge chip from a front side to one or more back side buses. I O interface may be coupled to one or more I O devices via one or more corresponding buses or other interfaces. Examples of I O devices include storage devices hard disk e.g. E optical drive removable flash drive storage array SAN or an associated controller network interface devices e.g. A which may couple to a local or wide area network user interface devices e.g. mouse B keyboard C display monitor D or other devices e.g. graphics sound etc. . In one embodiment computer system is coupled to a network via a network interface device A. I O devices are not limited to the examples listed above. All depicted I O devices need not be present in all embodiments of computer system .

Computer system or multiple instances of computer system may be used to implement the various techniques described herein. In one embodiment one or more instances of computer system can make up server system storing programs and data such as video player code web pages video files metadata and one or more programs for servicing web requests for uploading video files or selecting video files for playback. Computer system can also represent client computer systems and which as described above may receive and store program instructions executable to implement a video player that accesses video files and associated metadata stored on server system .

Turning now to a flowchart of a method is depicted. Method is one embodiment of a method for uploading a video file and associated metadata to a server system e.g. system . Illustrative web pages facilitating method are described below with reference to . Method is described below as a series of actions performed by server system in response to information received from client computer system . Corresponding client side methods are also contemplated having similar steps e.g. instead of receive information identifying user in step convey information identifying user to server system or input information identifying user to client computer system for conveyance to server system .

In step server system receives information identifying a user. Certain embodiments of method may not include step . In one embodiment server system includes data and program instructions executable to implement a website that stores account information for users of the website. Accordingly receipt of user identifying information in step may facilitate the retrieval of certain preferences for the identified user that may facilitate subsequent data entry. The user identifying information in step may include a user identification value e.g. userid and password in one embodiment. In certain embodiments the user identifying information may be received via a file such as a cookie stored on client computer system . In general step may be practiced by any known means of user identification including biometrics access token etc. The information received in step may in some embodiments identify a group account associated with multiple users.

In step server system receives metadata relating to a particular video file. The received metadata is not limited in any way and can be any information relating to the particular video file. For example the received metadata can include information indicating a title of the video file short description keywords to facilitate a search for the video etc. A particular set of metadata for an instructional video is described further below in the context of . In one embodiment metadata received in step is stored in a database or file or other repository e.g. metadata on or accessible to server system .

In step server system receives the video file corresponding to the metadata received in step . Video file may be in any suitable type of video format. Step may be performed for example using known techniques for uploading files via a website. In various embodiments step may be performed in a different order than shown in for example in some embodiments step may be performed prior to step . Alternately step can be performed concurrently with the receipt of other metadata e.g. in step . A screenshot illustrating a particular implementation of step is described further below in the context of .

In step server system receives additional metadata relating to the video file that has been uploaded. In some embodiments all metadata relating to the video file may be received in step thus step may not be present in those embodiments. Although step is not limited in the type of metadata that may be received this step is particularly suited for receiving metadata of a type that is facilitated by server system already having a copy of the video file. As one example the metadata received in step may include metadata specifying one or more points in the video file. In such an embodiment server system can provide a web page to client computer system that permits the user to playback the uploaded video file as well as make selections during playback that mark one or more points in the video file. For example step might include in one embodiment a video player that plays the uploaded video file on client computer system along with a control button or other indicia that a user can select at any point during playback. In one variation of such an embodiment when a particular point in time is selected a user can input further information about the selected point in time e.g. a description thereof .

As will be discussed below such an embodiment is usable in the context of an instructional video file to mark various points in the video file and supply information about those points. For example such points might correspond to the beginning of steps in the video as well as other points in time corresponding to facts tips warnings or other information. This embodiment might also permit the inputting of further information about these points in time e.g. text images etc. .

Step may also include the selection of a representative image for the video file as a whole or for various portions of the video e.g. steps chapters etc. . In one embodiment server system automatically chooses default representative images and permits a user to override these selections if desired. In another embodiment server system receives a user specified selection of a representative image. A screenshot illustrating a particular implementation of step is described further below in the context of . As with step metadata received in step may be stored in a database or file or other repository on or accessible to server system e.g. metadata .

Note that points in a video file may be identified without playing back the video file and allowing a user to mark one or more points during playback. In one embodiment for example server system might receive a series of values e.g. from a file on client computer system that identifies a series of points to mark during a particular video along with corresponding descriptive information e.g. 0 05 Step 1 0 30 Step 2 etc. .

In step server system receives distribution information relating to the uploaded video file. Certain embodiments of method may not include this step. Distribution information specifies information for sharing the uploaded video file. For example distribution information may include one or more addresses e.g. email addresses telephone numbers etc. . Upon receiving this distribution information server system in one embodiment is configured to send a message e.g. an email message text message etc. to the one or more specified addresses. These messages may include a link to the video code executable to play the video within the message itself etc. Distribution information in some embodiments can specify one or more locations e.g. websites at which a link to the uploaded video is to be posted. Such information allows a user to link the uploaded video at a home page a social networking site Internet portal any designated web page on any website etc. A screenshot illustrating a particular implementation of step is described further below in the context of .

Turning now to a flowchart of a method is shown. Method is one embodiment of a method for editing metadata e.g. metadata entered via method . As with method method is written from the perspective of a server system a corresponding client side method is also contemplated.

In step server system receives information identifying a user. Step may be similar to embodiments described above for step in method . In step server system receives information e.g. from client computer system identifying a video file whose metadata is to be edited. For example in step server system might receive information identifying an instructional video entitled How to Change a Flat Tire. This step allows for example system to retrieve the currently stored metadata for the indicated video file which may be stored in a data store database file etc. which may then be conveyed to system for display. Next in step server system receives updated metadata e.g. from system for the video file identified in step . For example if method is performed subsequent to method an updated version of any type of metadata received in steps and may be received in step . Finally in step the updated metadata is saved by server system e.g. updating the relevant database file etc. .

In embodiments in which metadata is stored on server system in one or more metadata files that are separate from the associated video file method permits updated metadata to be supplied to server system independent of the video file. In embodiments in which metadata is usable by a video player to dynamically display graphical content during playback of a video file method permits a different visual display of a given video file without having to re encode and re upload the video file.

Turning now to a screenshot of a website implementing one embodiment of method is depicted. As shown screenshot depicts a web page having a graphical user interface having a number of different portions. In this particular embodiment screenshot depicts a web page for uploading an instructional video and associated metadata. Numerous variations of the web page depicted in screenshot are possible.

Portion includes the text Hello nimprojects illustrating that a particular user nimprojects has been identified to the server system corresponding to the website step . Portion is a progress indicator indicating that this web page represents step one of a four step upload process. Portions and permit a user to identify respectively a particular video file a title a description and a category of the instructional video file to be uploaded. Note that the title of the video file identified in portion can be different from the title input in portion . The category of a video file permits in one embodiment a user to associate the video with one of a number of pre established categories. Similarly portion permits a user to specify tags that will aid in locating the video file via a search engine or other methods. Portion allows a user to specify certain attributes of the video file including whether the video file is public or private i.e. available to all users or only selected users as well as whether the video file includes mature content. Portion is selectable to proceed to a second step of the upload process. Screenshot thus illustrates a web page implementing one possible embodiment of step of method .

Turning now to a screenshot of a web page is shown illustrating the second step of the upload process described above with reference to see portion of the displayed graphical user interface in which 2. Items and Credits is highlighted . This web page indicates that the instructional video file has been identified wildstyle.mov . Additionally portion permits a user to input a list of items that are needed for performing the process depicted in this instructional video. In certain embodiments the user can also input additional information such as the amount of the item that is needed measurements of the item whether the item is optional etc. For example in a cooking instructional video the You Will Need input portion allows a user to input a list of ingredients. Although not depicted in in one embodiment portion allows a user to specify a location e.g. a uniform resource locator or URL for purchasing a particular item. This information is usable to display a purchase link during playback of the video file. In portion a user can specify credits for the video e.g. director writer etc. . The Next button is selectable to proceed to a third step of the upload process.

Turning now to a screenshot of a web page is shown illustrating the third step of the upload process described above with reference to see portion of the displayed graphical user interface in which 3. Processing is highlighted . This web page indicates via progress indicator the progress of the upload for the video file wildstyle.mov . Message indicates to the user that metadata can continue to be entered while the video file is uploading. Screenshot thus illustrates one possible embodiment of step of method .

In one embodiment once a video file is uploaded it gets converted to a FLASH .flv file as well as additional formats for mobile handsets podcasts etc.

Turning now to a screenshot of a web page is shown illustrating the fourth step of the upload process described above with reference to see portion of the displayed graphical user interface in which 4. Finish is highlighted . As shown this web page indicates that the video upload has successfully completed. This web page allows the receipt of additional metadata and distribution information and thus represents one embodiment of steps and of method .

Portion of the depicted web page allows a user to select an image a thumbnail to represent the video e.g. when the video is displayed in a catalog of the web site or in search result sets served in response to specific user search queries . In one embodiment the website serving the depicted web page analyzes the uploaded video file and presents a number of possible thumbnails. In three possible thumbnails are shown taken from a predetermined position from the beginning of the video a predetermined position in the middle of the video and a predetermined position from the end of the video. Portion allows a user to select one of these three thumbnails. In one embodiment a user many select an alternate thumbnail image from a different portion of the video or supply a thumbnail from a separate file e.g. on client computer system .

Portion of the depicted web page allows a user to specify what type of overlay graphics title card step delineation and overlays for facts tips and warnings etc. are to be added to the video by the video player during playback. Overlay graphics are discussed further below with reference to . As shown a user can select one or more of the available overlay graphics. In this embodiment default overlay graphics are used for the selected features in portion e.g. a chevron is displayed for step delineation as illustrated in .

In some embodiments not pictured in a user can specify custom overlay graphics. In such embodiments portion allows the user to upload or otherwise specify graphical content to this end. Thus for step delineation a user might choose to specify a custom graphic e.g. a circle to be used instead of the default graphic.

Portion of the depicted web page allows a user to specify information that indicates one or more steps within the video. In this embodiment a user may playback the uploaded video selecting the Add button at a point in time during the video that corresponds to a step or other textual information. When the Add button is selected the video pauses allowing the user to add information describing that point in time e.g. as a step fact etc. . Selection of the Add button in this embodiment also displays the corresponding time during the video in the field marked MM SS which can also be adjusted to change the time value corresponding to the designated point in time. As noted on the depicted web page the timing of a particular point in time can be subsequently adjusted by dragging the dots shown within the timeline underneath the display region corresponding to the video file. This process may be repeated for each point in time within the video file that the user desires to mark. As will be shown below this information stored within the one or more metadata files for the uploaded video file permits the video player to dynamically display navigation graphics during playback of the video file.

After all desired information is entered button labeled Save is selectable to save the provided information. As has been mentioned above in various embodiments the metadata for a particular video file may be saved in a data store such as a database e.g. along with the metadata for various other video files a file associated with the video file or other repository.

Portion allows a user to share the uploaded video by supplying distribution information. As shown a user can supply one or more email addresses. Upon supplying this information and selecting the Send button the video or a link thereto is sent to the specified addresses. Additionally code e.g. HTML code can be posted to one or more specified websites causing the video to be served from a hosting server and thus embedded in those websites.

In addition to the manual text entry techniques for metadata described above with reference to other techniques are also contemplated. For example in one embodiment speech recognition of the audio track might be used to identify where a step in an instructional video begins e.g. by determining when the word step occurs .

In another embodiment server system may receive metadata from a wiki that is written in a predetermined format recognized by software on system . The term wiki has its understood and accepted meaning in the art which includes a website that allows multiple users to create modify and organize web page content in a collaborative manner. A user of such a wiki can initiate a request to upload a corresponding video file to server system allowing system to store some or all of the metadata from the wiki in a metadata data store e.g. metadata . Such a process allows a first user to create a wiki e.g. a wiki hosted by system and a second user to create a how to video that supplements the wiki. In such an instance the second user can then upload the video to system in a manner that facilitates the expeditious entry of metadata for the video file.

Turning now to screenshots and are shown of a web page facilitating the editing of metadata for a previously uploaded video file. are two halves of a single web page that are accessed through an Edit button that is shown to a user if the user is the owner of a particular video. The embodiments shown in allow the editing of the data entered through the interfaces shown above in reference to . As has been described because metadata entered in is stored in one or more metadata files distinct from the corresponding video file in various embodiments this metadata may be updated without having to re encode and re upload the video file each time changes to the metadata are made.

Turning now to a block diagram of a video player is depicted. Video player is one embodiment of a video player program corresponding to video player code described above. Numerous other embodiments of a video player are also possible according to the present disclosure. As shown video player includes video playback engine control engine metadata processor sidebar engine control bar engine enhanced video engine advertising control and captioning control . Each of these blocks corresponds to functionality that may be implemented by one or more modules in various embodiments.

Video playback engine in one embodiment is code that is configured to access a given video file represented by video file in for playback. Engine may be a FLASH player in one embodiment. In one particular implementation engine outputs the video to video display region a particular region of the output of video player one embodiment of which is illustrated below with reference to in one operating mode. In some embodiments video player operates in a mode in which it can be controlled via an application programming interface API . This allows third party software for example to use video player engine as well as other functionality of player by making accesses via API . In such a mode video player engine directs its output to the third party software via control engine and API illustrated by the line connecting the output of video playback engine to control engine . In some embodiments engine is configured to playback numerous types of video files. Video playback engine can be controlled for example by control bar engine for example in response to user input pausing or playing video file . Such control may be via control engine in certain embodiments. 

Control engine in one embodiment is code within video player that coordinates the functionality of the various other modules depicted in . For example control engine may invoke the various modules engines that make up the interface for player and control interaction between modules e.g. between video playback engine and metadata processor . Additionally in some embodiments control engine determines the current mode of the player e.g. standard control or API based control etc.

Metadata processor in one embodiment is code within video player that accesses metadata represented by metadata depicted in that has been associated with video file being played back. In one embodiment metadata is a data store database file or other repository on server system e.g. metadata in which the metadata for file was originally saved. In one embodiment metadata is a database file or other repository on a client computer system e.g. system . For example metadata could be a temporary file e.g. in XML or other extensible language that is dynamically created by metadata processor by transferring data stored on server system e.g. metadata to a client computer system e.g. system . Metadata is thus representative of metadata for video file wherever the metadata is stored.

As has been described above the metadata for a particular video may include a wide variety of information including various time markings within the video whether overlay graphics are to be used etc. Metadata processor accesses the metadata during operation of video player as mentioned above in one embodiment processor controls the download streaming etc. of metadata which may include copyright protection e.g. to client computer system that has selected video file for playback and provides this information to various modules within player as needed. For example metadata processor may access information about time markings within metadata to generate navigation graphics for a particular video. These navigation graphics may be stored in random access memory where they are available to sidebar engine to be displayed as needed. In some embodiments sidebar engine may actually generate the navigation graphics rather than processor . 

Sidebar engine in one embodiment is code within video player that controls the operation of sidebar display region which is a display region output by player this region may be distinct from video display region in one embodiment . As will be shown below with reference to sidebar display region may be toggled to be visible or not at any given point in time.

In one embodiment relating to instructional videos sidebar display region includes three types of content items needed for a process depicted in the instructional video points in time within the videos one or more of which has an associated navigation graphic and links to related videos. Other types of content may of course be displayed within display region in other embodiments. As mentioned above sidebar engine may receive information from metadata processor that indicates various marked points within video file . During playback sidebar engine or processor may generate navigation graphics corresponding to these marked points. Sidebar engine can then display these graphics within sidebar display region in some embodiments. In certain implementations of sidebar engine one or more controls are usable to facilitate scrolling within display region this feature is illustrated below with reference to .

Sidebar engine in one embodiment also receives any user input within display region . Such input may alter what type of content is currently being displayed within region as well as within region . For example if a user selects a particular navigation graphic sidebar engine passes information indicating this selection to control engine which in turn causes video playback engine to begin playing from the point in time during video file corresponding to the selected navigation graphic.

Control bar engine in one embodiment is code within video player that controls the operation of control bar display region which is a display region output by player this region may be distinct from video display region and sidebar display region in various embodiments . Control bar display region will be described further below with reference to and in various embodiments may include a timeline which may or may not have selectable visual indicia corresponding to marked points within video file as well as controls to stop play pause fast forward and rewind a video file. Additionally region may include volume controls sharing controls zoom controls slow motion controls screen size controls etc. In certain embodiments control bar engine is responsible for both the display of region as well as receipt of input received through this region. Like sidebar display region control bar display region may provide information to control video playback engine e.g. upon a user selecting a particular location along a displayed timeline .

Enhanced video engine is code that controls the display of overlay graphics which may include in one embodiment a title card step delineation graphics and overlays for facts tips warnings etc. Other types of overlay graphics may also be used in other embodiments. As has been described metadata in one embodiment includes information indicating which if any overlay graphics are to be used in playing back video file as well as corresponding times at which these graphics are to be displayed. In certain embodiments information in metadata may also indicate that custom overlay graphics are to be used. In one embodiment metadata processor communicates this information to enhanced video engine which is configured to overlay any indicated graphics on top of the video output of video playback engine .

In one embodiment video engine further includes audio functionality and is configured to support the overlay of audio on top of or in place of any audio for video file .

Advertising control module in one embodiment is code that controls the display of advertising within one or more display regions output by video player . In one embodiment advertising control module receives information from metadata processor indicating certain keywords or a description of video file . This information permits module in one embodiment to select appropriate advertisements to be dynamically or statically displayed within video player . In other embodiments module may select advertisements using criteria not based on information included within metadata . In certain embodiments control module may be a third party software module. Similarly advertisements selected by module may be from a third party site or database.

Captioning control module in one embodiment is code that controls the display of captioning information for video file . In certain embodiments module includes support for multiple languages.

Turning now to a screenshot of one embodiment of output from a video player according to the present disclosure is depicted. As shown screenshot includes video display region and control bar display region which is shown in enlarged view. Sidebar display region is hidden in screenshot by control which is configured to toggle the display of region . Control reads Show when region is hidden and Hide when region is displayed. 

In one embodiment video display region is the output of video file by video playback engine . Of course a video player having the interface shown in may have an internal arrangement different from the one shown in . The references to video player and video file are merely for the purpose of illustration. As shown video display region can also include the output from other modules of video player . In the embodiment shown in region includes an overlay graphic which along with the accompanying text shown in region is the output of enhanced video engine in certain embodiments. The particular type of overlay graphic is a tip which in the context of an instructional video permits text supplied during the metadata specification and editing processes e.g. methods and described above to be displayed during video playback to help explain the process depicted in the instructional video. Of course overlay graphics are displayable in any type of video. Such graphics might display text such as lyrics in a music video a score in a sports video etc. Overlay graphics are described further below with reference to .

The embodiment of control bar display region shown in includes a number of features relating to video playback and distribution of video file . Control allows a user to toggle between playing back and pausing video file . Control permits adjusting of the volume of the audio for video file . Control permits video file to be sent or linked to a user specified address email or otherwise . Control allows a user to control the speed at which video file is played back. In one embodiment control allows video file to be played back at 50 speed 30 speed and 10 speed. Such a control is particularly advantageous in many settings particularly when video file corresponds to an instructional video. Control allows a user to toggle in and out of full screen mode.

Control in one embodiment allows a user to zoom in on a selected portion of video display region . In one implementation the user is able to repeatedly select control to zoom to the desired level and then control what portion of the video is currently displayed on the screen by moving the viewing pane in a desired direction. In an alternate implementation a user is able to select a desired portion of region via a bounding box and then select control to zoom in on display region to the desired degree. Control is also selectable to zoom out with respect to display region .

As shown display region includes a timeline display region . In this embodiment region includes a timeline that visually indicates the current location within video file . Elapsed time indication also provides this information. The timeline in region includes dots within the timeline one example of visual indicia that correspond in one embodiment to points in the video file that have been marked by the user in metadata files . Control bar region allows a user to select any of these dots in order to navigate to that point in the video file. In certain embodiments passing the cursor over the displayed dots e.g. mousing over causes textual information associated with the marked point in time to be displayed e.g. in a text balloon. For example mousing over a dot within the timeline of region might display the text of a tip or the name of a step in the video.

In one embodiment control allows a user to advance forward and backward between the points in time corresponding to the visual indicia shown in the timeline in region . For example control may allow a user to advance from the middle of step 1 to the beginning of step 2 in the context of an instructional video. Similarly display region in one embodiment outputs text corresponding to the current point in time in the video file. For example in display region includes an expanded version of the tip text displayed in region . In other embodiments display region could display data determined during video playback such data might be different during each playback of a given video file .

Turning now to a screenshot of output from one embodiment of a video player according to the present disclosure is depicted. Screenshot shows sidebar display region which was hidden in . Note that control not labeled in reads Hide rather than Show .

In the embodiment shown region includes three areas You Will Need needed items area Easy Steps steps area and related videos area . These three areas are particularly suited for display in conjunction with an instructional video. In other embodiments the contents of sidebar display region may be different.

In the embodiment shown needed items area lists one or more items used for performing the process depicted by video file . In one embodiment this list of items resides in metadata and is accessed by metadata processor . Accordingly the metadata corresponding to the needed items may be changed by the owner of the video file as desired. In certain embodiments area includes purchase links for one or more of the listed items. Variations of purchase links are described further with reference to .

In one embodiment the list of needed items may dynamically change during playback of the video file for example the list of needed items may correspond to the currently active step . In such an embodiment metadata processor accesses metadata to retrieve the current data to be displayed in area .

In the embodiment shown steps area includes one or more navigation graphics each of which is user selectable to navigate to a particular point in time in the video. In the context of an instructional video navigation graphics may correspond to steps in the depicted process as well as other points in time at which it is appropriate to call the viewer s attention to particular subject matter e.g. facts tips warnings etc. . In certain embodiments the set of currently displayed navigations graphics changes during video playback. For example in one embodiment the current step etc. is displayed in the middle of area . Note In the embodiment shown area expands when active. Area is not active in . In some embodiments area includes a user selectable control e.g. up and down arrows to allow scrolling within steps independent of the current state of playback of video file . In certain embodiments navigation graphics in area include graphics and text relating to the portion of the video with which they are associated. Area is also discussed with reference to . Navigation graphics are of course possible in types of videos other than instructional videos.

Related videos area when active displays graphics e.g. thumbnails corresponding to videos that are deemed to be related to the current video based on some predetermined criteria. For example videos having representative graphics in area might be classified in the same category as the current video. Alternately videos depicted in area might share certain keywords with the current video. Area is also discussed with reference to .

Turning now to a screenshot is shown that depicts a video player having a sidebar display region . As shown region shown in screenshot includes needed items area steps area and related videos these areas are not labeled in for convenience . Area is currently expanded and displays a list of six needed items. Two of these items are highlighted and have shopping cart icons next to them. These icons are purchase links and are user selectable in various embodiments to facilitate the purchase lease temporary use etc. of the associated item via some location e.g. a web page .

In one embodiment a purchase link may simply be a hyperlink that causes a different page e.g. web page of electronic content to be displayed to the user. In other embodiments a purchase link may cause an executable to run to facilitate a purchase. Various embodiments of purchase links are thus possible.

In one embodiment the purchase link facilitates purchase of the associated item at a location e.g. a web page that is stored in metadata . Accordingly a video owner creator might supply a link to a website where a particular item may be purchased. In another embodiment the location associated with a particular purchase link may be determined dynamically. As one example sidebar engine might access a third party site to determine during or before playback an appropriate location to associate with a particular purchase link for a particular item. The appropriate location in some instances might correspond to a third party that has placed the highest current bid for the right to display that link. In such embodiments the same purchase link icon might point to different locations at different points in time.

Turning now to two different screenshots and of steps area within sidebar display region of video player are shown. The steps area in each Figure includes a number of navigation graphics each of which corresponds to a particular point in time in the associated video file. Some of the navigation graphics shown in include only text while some include text an image and a time value indicating its relative location within the video file. Also note that area includes a scroll bar permitting traversal of all points in time identified in metadata . In the embodiment shown each of the navigation graphics depicted can be selected by the user in order to immediately skip to that point in the video. In other embodiments steps area can include non selectable content or content that has other functionality.

Turning now to a screenshot is depicted in which the Related Videos tab is active. This feature allows a user to be exposed to videos that he or she may be interested in based on the current video user preferences etc. This information may be dynamically determined by sidebar engine during playback in some embodiments.

Turning now to screenshots and are shown of video player upon completion of playback of video file . Screenshot in depicts the selection of the Related Videos tab while screenshot in depicts the selection of the Share this Video tab . Tab permits a user to post a link to or embed the video in various websites and or send a link to a user at a specified address such as an email address.

Turning now to a screenshot illustrating the use of a title card overlay graphic is shown. As has been described above in one embodiment the metadata upload editing processes e.g. methods permit a user to specify whether overlay graphics are to be used during playback of the video file. Such overlay graphics are advantageous because they permit the creator owner of a video to have them appear with a minimum of effort on their part.

Consider the example shown in . In this embodiment all a user needs to do to have this title card appear is to specify that title overlay graphics are desired and to provide the desired video title to be included in the title overlay graphic. In one embodiment during playback enhanced video engine determines from metadata processor that title overlay graphics have been selected and that a certain title has been supplied. In one embodiment engine combines the supplied title with a default graphic such as the chevron symbol shown in to produce an overlay graphic. In one particular implementation the overlay graphic may be accompanied by some predetermined audio clip that is overlaid e.g. a chime sound . As has been described in some embodiments a video owner may opt to supply not only the text for an overlay graphic but the actual graphic itself. The use of such custom graphics may be handled by engine in one embodiment.

Turning now to screenshots and illustrating different types of overlay graphics are shown. illustrates an overlay graphic that delineates the start of a step in an instructional video while illustrate overlay graphics and corresponding to a tip and a fact respectively. In some embodiments overlay graphics are used to depict a warning regarding a particular process. Note that tip fact and warning are merely exemplary kinds of content and overlay graphics are possible to represent a wide variety of content types.

In one embodiment an underlying video file may be edited so that it includes overlay graphics and or audio. In one implementation this process may be initiated for example when metadata for a particular video file is received initially e.g. method or when it is updated e.g. method . First a video owner creator may specify e.g. to server system that the video file is to be altered to include overlay graphics and or audio. This specification may include the graphic s to be used the placement of graphics on the screen the time in the video file at which the graphics are to be overlaid any associated audio etc. With the video file to be edited already uploaded this process may next include deconstructing the first portion of the video file to be altered into individual frames video is commonly shot at a rate such as 24 frames second . This deconstruction may be performed using known means such as rotoscoping. Next each frame in the first portion of the video file may be manipulated to include the desired graphical content. This manipulation may be done automatically e.g. by server system based on user specifications or manually e.g. within the context of a browser on system using an editing tool software including program instructions executable by system provided by server system that has the ability to add graphics to individual frames of video . When editing of the frames in the first portion of video is complete any remaining portions of the video file to be altered are edited in the same fashion. Finally the altered frames are reassembled to create an altered video file. The alteration of a video file in this manner allows such a video file to be played on an arbitrary player or device yet have a similar appearance as if played on a video player with an enhanced video engine e.g. configured to display overlay graphics specified through metadata. Audio may be overlaid on the relevant portions of the video file as well.

Similarly an overlay animation could be edited into a video file by deconstructing the desired animation into a set of frames and then aligning those frames on top of the set of video frames to be altered.

Articles of manufacture that store instructions and optionally data executable by a computer system to implement various techniques disclosed herein are also contemplated. These articles of manufacture include tangible computer readable memory media. The contemplated tangible computer readable memory media include portions of the memory subsystem of computer system without limitation SDRAM DDR SDRAM RDRAM SRAM flash memory and various types of ROM etc. as well as storage media or memory media such as magnetic e.g. disk or optical media e.g. CD DVD and related technologies etc. . The tangible computer readable memory media may be either volatile or nonvolatile memory.

Although specific embodiments have been described above these embodiments are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure even where only a single embodiment is described with respect to a particular feature. Examples of features provided in the disclosure are intended to be illustrative rather than restrictive unless stated otherwise. The above description is intended to cover such alternatives modifications and equivalents as would be apparent to a person skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure.

The scope of the present disclosure includes any feature or combination of features disclosed herein either explicitly or implicitly or any generalization thereof whether or not it mitigates any or all of the problems addressed herein. Accordingly new claims may be formulated during prosecution of this application or an application claiming priority thereto to any such combination of features. In particular with reference to the appended claims features from dependent claims may be combined with those of the independent claims and features from respective independent claims may be combined in any appropriate manner and not merely in the specific combinations enumerated in the appended claims.

