---

title: Acoustic waveguide for the detection and characterization of obstructions in liquid-filled tubes
abstract: The present invention provides an acoustic waveguide for determining and continuously monitoring the degree, location and type of obstructions in liquid-filled tubes or catheters using acoustic waves. The tube's wall has an intermediate layer positioned between a tube outer wall and a tube inner wall of the tubea and the intermediate layer is made of a material having a difference in acoustic impedance of at least one order of magnitude with respect to that of the liquid present in or outside the waveguide reducing or eliminating the amount of acoustic energy that radiates through the tube.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09261484&OS=09261484&RS=09261484
owner: University of Puerto Rico
number: 09261484
owner_city: San Juan
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120919
---
The claimed invention was made with U.S. Government support under grant number 5S06GM008103 awarded by the National Institute of Health NIH . The government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to an apparatus for determining and continuously monitoring the degree location and type of obstructions in liquid filled tubes or catheters using acoustic waves.

There are several methods available to inspect the interior of tubes for detecting any obstruction inside. One of these methods relies on acoustic detection for detecting the presence of a blockage in a pipe. In essence an acoustic transmitter is used to generate an acoustic signal that propagates through the liquid filled pipe and a transmitter that receives the signal and or any signal reflection. Data processing means are provided for analyzing and interpreting the signal to determine if a blockage exists in the pipe and its size and location inside the tube. However there is a constant problem associated with this technology in terms of acoustic signal reflection since tubes or pipes might have different sizes materials and are subjected to conditions creating a situation where some of the acoustic signal radiates through the tube affecting the analysis and interpretation of the received signal.

Thus what is needed is a cost effective tube arrangement that reduces or eliminates the amount of acoustic energy that radiates through the tube.

According to an aspect of the invention an acoustic waveguide is provided for determining and continuously monitoring the degree location and type of obstructions in liquid filled tubes or catheters using acoustic waves.

According to another aspect of the invention a tube wall has an intermediate layer between a tube outer wall and a tube inner wall.

According to still another aspect of the invention the intermediate layer has a material having a difference in acoustic impedance of at least one order of magnitude with respect to that of the liquid present in or outside the waveguide.

The present invention described the integration of three main components a an acoustic waveguide whose wall has an intermediate layer of a material having an acoustic impedance significantly different than the medium inside the tube b single or multiple acoustic transducers used to generate and record acoustic signals and c a series of algorithms used to interpret acoustic reflections and estimate the location degree and type of lumen obstructions.

In the embodiment depicted in the acoustic transducers or single transducer are embedded in the wall of the liquid filled tube such that their active surfaces are flush with the inner wall of the tube. As with the embodiment of acoustic waves are generated by at least one acoustic transducer and subsequently recorded by at least one receiving acoustic transducer . One advantage of this configuration is that the tube s patency can be monitored without obstructing the tube with an acoustic probe or with the acoustic transducers.

In practice the acoustic waveguide shown in and can be any kind of liquid carrying conduit such as but not limited to oil pipelines hydraulic hoses plumbing pipes and medical catheters. Although most of these conduits have a circular cross sectional area this invention can be used on other cross sectional geometries i.e. square or oval and on waveguides with curves the tube does not have to be straight . Utilizing acoustic pulse reflectometry in liquid filled tubes ie. medical catheters is a more challenging proposition than using it on air filled tubes where there are already a number of applications for various reasons. One reason is that for immersed liquid filled tubes when the tube wall material has acoustic impedance that is similar to that of the medium inside and outside of the tube some of the acoustic energy radiates through the wall as guided waves cannot be fully sustained for all modes. One critical aspect of the invention is that the tube wall has an intermediate layer between a tube outer wall and a tube inner wall of a material having a difference in acoustic impedance of at least one order of magnitude with respect to that of the liquid present in or outside the waveguide. A support element is provided to separate the outer and inner walls and to provide structural support. This intermediate layer is provided to prevent the radiation of acoustic energy towards the exterior of the tube thus addressing one of the challenges associated to the use of acoustic reflectometry in liquid filled tubes. The difference in acoustic impedance of at least one order of magnitude between the intermediate layer of material with respect to that of the liquid inside or outside the waveguide can be explained by the definition of the acoustic reflection coefficient.

The pressure reflection coefficient defined as the ratio of reflected p x t to incident p x t acoustic pressures at a boundary xbetween two layers is given by

In a preferred embodiment the acoustic transducers used in both embodiments are made of lead zirconate titanate PZT in conjunction with suitable matching and backing layers using standard procedures described in the scientific literature.

The other challenge of utilizing acoustic reflectometry in liquid filled tubes is that in such tubes multiple acoustic modes can propagate simultaneously and at different velocities and attenuation rates causing distortion of the incident wave and therefore making analysis of reflections more difficult. To address this challenge we have adapted and developed specialized algorithms used to interpret the recorded acoustic reflections and to estimate the size type and location of lumen obstructions.

The acoustic reflection preprocessing consists first in reading the reflection data from a text file. Then a BandPass filter and amplifier is used to reduce low frequency noise and amplify the acoustic reflection signal respectively. The acoustic reflection analysis consists of extracting different features that identify a particular signal. The most common transformation used in audio identification is the Fast Fourier Transform. It has been published that the Discrete Fourier Transform is generally less sensitive to time shifting. The main idea of linear transforms is to convert a set of measurements to a new set of features that are stored in a database. To extract different features from the acoustic reflection two algorithms are used. First is the onset algorithm which seeks the time when the first increase in amplitude occurs in the reflection time signal. With this estimated time the distance of the obstruction that produced the reflection is calculated. The other two features that are extracted from the acoustic reflection are its envelope and projection of the spectrogram time axis.

Spectrograms like the one shown in are images that show how the power spectrum density PSD of a signal changes as time elapse. Since spectrograms are images these can be represented as a m by n matrix A 

The feature database is created by preprocessing an acoustic reflection signal and extracting the mentioned features. The acoustic reflections consist of different obstruction types and sizes located at particular positions along the water filled tube. This results in a reflection database that contains features for different obstruction types and sizes at specific locations in the water filled tube.

The procedure used to create the database is also used to process unknown acoustic reflections. Once unknown signals are processed these are compared with the database using a signal matching algorithm. Acoustic signature matching is commonly calculated using a distance measure between feature vectors rather than a direct binary match. Some distance metrics methods used in audio matching are the Euclidean distance and the Nearest Neighbor Manhattan distance and another error metric called Exponential Pseudo Norm. While distances are calculated these are accumulated to decide if there is a correct identification seeking the lowest distance. This results in an estimation of the type size and position of the obstruction.

Although the invention has been described in conjunction with specific embodiments it is evident that many alternatives and variations will be apparent to those skilled in the art in light of the foregoing description. Accordingly the invention is intended to embrace all of the alternatives and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

