---

title: Method and apparatus for phonetic character conversion
abstract: A method and apparatus for improved approaches for uttering the spelling of words and phrases over a communication session is described. The method includes determining a character to produce a first audio signal representing a phonetic utterance of the character, determining a code word that starts with a code word character identical to the character, and generating a second audio signal representing an utterance of the code word, wherein the first audio signal and the second audio signal are provided over a communication session for detection of the character.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09418649&OS=09418649&RS=09418649
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09418649
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120306
---
Utterances of words or phrases particularly names and places can be difficult to understand for a listener if the speaker s manner of speech is not customary to the listener. Intelligibility can be further compromised in the case that the speaker is talking over a poor communication channel. This is especially critical in the conduct of a transaction over for example a telephone session affecting the accuracy of the transaction as well as introducing unnecessary delays in the transaction. Further the user experience can be frustrating if the information cannot be conveyed efficiently and result in abandonment of the transaction altogether.

Therefore there is a need for improved approaches for uttering the words and phrases over a communication session.

A preferred method and system for uttering the spelling of words and phrases over a communication session is described. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the preferred embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however that the preferred embodiments may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the preferred embodiments of the invention.

Although various exemplary embodiments are described with respect to a mobile device it is contemplated that other equivalent user devices may be used.

As used herein mobile devices may be any type of mobile terminal including a mobile handset mobile station mobile unit multimedia computer multimedia tablet communicator netbook tablet PC Personal Digital Assistants PDAs smartphone media receiver etc. It is also contemplated that the mobile devices may support any type of interface for supporting the presentment or exchange of data. In addition mobile devices may facilitate various input means for receiving and generating information including touch screen capability keyboard and keypad data entry voice based input mechanisms accelerometer e.g. shaking the mobile device and the like. Any known and future implementations of mobile devices are applicable. It is noted that in certain embodiments the mobile devices may be configured to transmit information e.g. audio signals words address etc. using a variety of technologies e.g. near field communication NFC BLUETOOTH infrared etc. Also connectivity may be provided via a wireless local area network LAN . By way of example a group of mobile devices may be configured to a common LAN so that each device can be uniquely identified via any suitable network addressing scheme. For example the LAN may utilize the dynamic host configuration protocol DHCP to dynamically assign private DHCP internet protocol IP addresses to each mobile device e.g. IP addresses that are accessible to devices connected to the service provider network as facilitated via a router.

In certain embodiments users may utilize a computing device e.g. laptop desktop web appliance netbook etc. to access platform via service provider portal . Service provider portal provides for example a web based user interface to allow users to access the services of platform .

According to one embodiment the alphabet conversion service may be part of managed services supplied by a service provider e.g. a wireless communication company as a hosted or subscription based service made available to users of the mobile devices through a service provider network . As shown platform may be a part of or connected to the service provider network . According to another embodiment platform may be included within or connected to the mobile devices a computing device etc.

As mentioned users can be met with some confusion or misunderstandings in trying to spell out words names or addresses over a communication session such as a telephonic connection. For example in cases where a service provider utilizes external resources to process service calls e.g. outsourcing to a foreign call center the foreign agents who may possess differing levels of language skills and dialects may have difficulty communicating with the users. Further some of the words utilized by the users may not immediately be known to the agent.

To address this issue the system of introduces the capability to spell out words or phrases with the assistance of platform . By way of example a user of mobile device is engaged in a communication session e.g. voice session with a user of another mobile device mobile device may receive a selection of words to spell out on the mobile device screen containing frequently spelled words e.g. name of user address of user etc. and or words relating to the other user associated with mobile device . Further platform may be configured to generate an audio signal of code words representing each letter in a spelling of a word to generate an utterance of the spelling e.g. emit the characters and code words as vocal sound to the user of mobile device . For example a user establishes a connection using mobile device to a service provider via a voice station and platform opens an application on mobile device that displays options to spell out information about the user e.g. name of user address of user etc. and information associated with the service provider e.g. an account number . Further once the platform determines a word to spell out e.g. Main Street platform causes or generates an utterance of a code word representing each character of the word e.g. M Mike A Alpha etc. . In another embodiment the platform determines one or more words to read a word or phrase e.g. Main Street and causes the utterance of the word or phrase. Such utterances may be generated for example by outputting an audible signal using a speaker located on a mobile device a speaker located on a wired wireless headset tethered or paired to a mobile device and the like. It is contemplated that an audible signal may be further processed e.g. amplified before uttering.

As used herein a communication session in some embodiments includes voice based communications e.g. voice calls audio streams media streams etc. In one embodiment user devices e.g. mobile devices computing device are configured to transmit and receive audio signals and access the one or more networks to utilize the services of platform to identify and utter code words e.g. B as in Bravo . For example such devices e.g. a netbook a tablet PC may communicate with a user associated with a plain old telephone service device e.g. voice station with access to only telephony network . In another embodiment the devices may initiate a communication session via a video conferencing or video telephony protocol and or application e.g. SKYPE GOOGLE TALK FACETIME etc. . In this instance the devices may receive input via a touch screen or keyboard mouse etc. causing the platform to generate and produce utterances of code words into the communication session. By way of example platform causes an output of audible sound corresponding to an audio file representing code words on one of the devices via a loud speaker and another of the devices via a bone conduction headset. Additionally or alternatively the devices may send and receive a graphical representation of the determined input. For example a name can be input into the netbook and displayed on the screen on the device . It is contemplated that a graphical representation of identifying a spelling of words and phrases may be transmitted via for example one or more networks Short Messaging Service SMS text a connection associated with the communication session and the like.

In certain embodiments platform may include or have access to templates in a template database . For example a template can include fields e.g. user name user address etc. allowing an input of values e.g. John Doe West Street etc. . In one embodiment a template can be pre filed to contain words or values to be spelled out and the user selects a word. For example the template database may have stored a template with values previously input by the user. In another embodiment a template contains fields that a user may input words to be spelled. In this manner a template associated with a product service or organization may be retrieved to enable a user to input values e.g. words addresses etc. associated with the user. Users or subscribers may create or modify e.g. add delete modify fields in a template. It is contemplated that a user may have access to templates associated with more than one group family corporation etc. as shown in and a device can be associated with more than one user as shown in .

In certain embodiments platform may include or have access to code words stored in a code word database . For example platform may access the code word database to select a code word starting with a character to be spelled. By way of example platform generates the code word alpha for the character a. Code words may be customized or selected in real time to enable the use of code words commonly used by the recipient. For example a code word S Sierra may be customized or selected to be S Shanghai when it is determined the recipient e.g. call center is based in China.

Additionally platform in some embodiments may include or have access to a record of use of one or more services provided by platform stored in a history database . That is platform may access the history database to identify words spelled during a conversation identify parties to a communication session a date and time of the conversation and the like. By way of example platform spells out the street Main as M Mike A Alpha I India N November and the history database may store the spelled out word e.g. Main the code words used M Mike A Alpha etc. the parties and a date and time of the conversation.

Furthermore it is contemplated that some or all functions and processes of platform can be executed by other devices e.g. anyone of mobile devices or computer .

In some embodiments platform the mobile devices and other elements of the system may be configured to communicate via the service provider network . According to certain embodiments one or more networks such as the data network the telephony network and or the wireless network may interact with the service provider network . The networks may be any suitable wireline and or wireless network and be managed by one or more service providers. For example the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN the Internet or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network such as a proprietary cable or fiber optic network. For example computing device may be any suitable computing device such as a VoIP phone skinny client control protocol SCCP phone session initiation protocol SIP phone IP phone personal computer softphone workstation terminal server etc. The telephony network may include a circuit switched network such as the public switched telephone network PSTN an integrated services digital network ISDN a private branch exchange PBX or other like network. For instance voice station may be any suitable plain old telephone service POTS device facsimile machine etc. Meanwhile the wireless network may employ various technologies including for example code division multiple access CDMA long term evolution LTE enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS mobile ad hoc network MANET global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like.

Although depicted as separate entities the networks may be completely or partially contained within one another or may embody one or more of the aforementioned infrastructures. For instance the service provider network may embody circuit switched and or packet switched networks that include facilities to provide for transport of circuit switched and or packet based communications. It is further contemplated that the networks may include components and facilities to provide for signaling and or bearer communications between the various components or facilities of the system . In this manner the networks may embody or include portions of a signaling system 7 SS7 network Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS or other suitable infrastructure to support control and signaling functions.

While specific reference will be made thereto it is contemplated that the system may embody many forms and include multiple and or alternative components and facilities.

The controller may execute at least one algorithm for executing functions of platform . For example the controller may interact with the communication interface to identify a communication session and an associated contacted party e.g. a product or service provider . Using information regarding the contacted party e.g. a phone number the template module may identify templates that are available to a user and related to the contacted party. The controller may then interact with the code word module to select a set or list of code words using a geographical location associated with the contacted party and the controller may then further cause the transaction history module to store a transcript of the communication session.

The provisioning module may deliver mobile content to the mobile device to enable a spelling or reading of words and phrases over a communication session. The provisioning module may also update for example the version language settings or type of installation for platform . By way of example mobile device may detect an initiation of a communication session e.g. a dialing of a contact number and cause the retrieval of a template associated with the communication session e.g. a template associated with the contact number. .

The template module may create modify or select a template stored in the template database . In one embodiment a first user or subscriber generates a template containing one or more fields e.g. name address phone number etc. and a second user or subscriber inputs values e.g. a user name a user address etc. into the fields. In this manner a group service provider product manufacturer and the like may generate template forms used by other users e.g. customers . In another embodiment a user generates a template by inputting fields and values. Additionally a template may be shared by multiple users e.g. a group and such a template may have group fields e.g. fields that are shared by users of the group and user fields e.g. fields that are unique to users or not universally shared by users .

Templates may be created or modified during before or after a communication session. In one embodiment a user can receive a template before a communication session and may pre fill the template by entering values into fields. In another embodiment a communication session starts and the platform sends a template to the user device which fills or auto populates the field values. In yet another embodiment a communication session ends and the platform sends the template to a user with values filled for that user based on user preferences or user profile. That is the platform determines the values based on the communication session for example by use of voice recognition or by detecting an input by another user. In this manner templates can be automatically pre filled. It is noted that security questions may be used to validate the response before engaging into service related questions.

According to one embodiment platform may include a code word module for selecting code words. As noted code words are selected to represent a character of a spelling of a word e.g. the code word begins with a character identical to the character represented . As mentioned code words may be stored in the code word database . The code word module may be configured to select a list or set of code words based on a default setting a determined location a detected error or settings associated with a user. In one embodiment a code word is selected from a predetermined or default list such as a NATO phonetic alphabet. In another embodiment a code word list is selected first and a code word is selected from the code word list. By way of example a user calling a call center located in a foreign country can select a code word list that contains words commonly used or known in that country e.g. S for Shanghai . In another embodiment a code word list can be customized based on a user input or based on a failed to acknowledge message. For example a user may customize or select a code word e.g. B for Bob . In another example the platform determines that a code word has failed to be interpreted by another e.g. by an input indicating a failed attempt and the platform selects another code word to represent the character e.g. S Shanghai rather than S Sierra . It is contemplated that the platform can be configured to replace code words e.g. select a different code word in real time e.g. within a communication session .

According to one embodiment platform may include a transaction history module for preserving a record of the services provided by the platform . In one embodiment the platform may generate a transcript of words spelled during a conversation. In another embodiment the platform may generate and send a portion or all of a transcript to another user. For example the platform may generate an e mail indicating the words spelled out during a conversation with a service provider and send the e mail to the user or subscriber the service provider and another user e.g. friend family member supervisor etc. . It is contemplated that the transaction history module can be configured to store all the words spelled during a conversation all the code words used during a conversation and their corresponding characters an indication of the parties of the conversation e.g. contact number name address etc. a time and date of the conversation and the like. In this manner a user can check words spelled during a conversation e.g. communication session face to face meeting etc. and may notify a respective customer service agent to make necessary corrections.

The platform may further include a communication interface to communicate with other components of platform the mobile devices and other components of the system . The communication interface may include multiple means of communication. For example the communication interface may be able to communicate over short message service SMS multimedia messaging service MMS internet protocol instant messaging voice sessions e.g. via a phone network email near field communications NFC QR code or other types of communication. Additionally communication interface may include a web portal e.g. service provider portal accessible by for example mobile device computing device and the like.

It is contemplated that to prevent unauthorized access platform may utilize an authentication identifier when transmitting signals to mobile devices . For instance control messages may be encrypted either symmetrically or asymmetrically such that a hash value can be utilized to authenticate received control signals as well as ensure that those signals have not been impermissibly alerted in transit. As such communications between the mobile devices and platform may include various identifiers keys random numbers random handshakes digital signatures and the like.

After the template has been determined the process determines as in step a character and generates a first audio signal representing a phonetic utterance of the character. In one embodiment the character is determined by an input e.g. selection of a key on a hard keyboard selection of a key on a soft keyboard or a drawing into mobile device . In another embodiment the determined template includes one or more characters or words to be spelled out and the character is determined based on a detection of an input into computing device indicating a selection of a character or word to be spelled out. For example a screen displaying Last Name White causes the character W to be determined along with a first audio signal representing the utterance of W followed by the character H to be determined along with a first audio signal representing the utterance of H and so forth. In this manner a user can avoid multiple key strokes to spell out details. It is contemplated that the words may also be read rather than spelled out.

The process then determines as in step a code word representing the determined character. In one embodiment a code word is selected based on the first character of the code word being identical to the determined character. For example a code word Alpha is determined for a character A a code word Bravo is determined for a character B and so forth. In another embodiment more than one code word has a first character that is identical to the determined character and the code word is determined based on for example a determined template a determined geographical location an indication of a failed attempt to detect a character from the code word or a combination thereof. By way of example the process may determine code words Delta and Delhi for the character D and select Delta based on a determination that the template prefers the use of the NATO phonetic alphabet Delta is a code word in the NATO phonetic alphabet . In another embodiment the determined geographical location of a called party e.g. the call center service provider etc. is India and the process determines Delhi based on an association with the code word to the geographical location India e.g. the process prefers the use of Delhi over Delta when the called party is located in India. . In another example the code word module determines that a receiver e.g. a called party has failed to acknowledge Alpha corresponds to the character A and thus step determines another code word to represent the character A to the receiver e.g. Apple. It is contemplated that code words and their priority may be customized by groups users templates receivers and the like. Also other context information can be used in lieu of or in addition to geographical location to select the particular code words.

The platform then generates as in step a second audio signal representing a phonetic utterance of the code word. The audio signal representing a phonetic utterance may be in any form that may be used to generate a speech synthesis representing the code word including text to speech files audio e.g. MP3 WMA ACC etc. text files and the like. In one embodiment a single device detects inputs selecting characters and produces utterances of audible sound using one or more speakers e.g. headset and a loudspeaker without an establishing of a communication session. Such an embodiment may be used during face to face conversations for example when a customer goes to an appointment to the hospital an application may be configured to read out details with or without spelling out the selected words. In another embodiment multiple devices of a communication session are utilized wherein one device e.g. mobile device detects an input selecting characters to produce utterances and another device e.g. mobile device or voice station outputs an utterance or audible sound via a speaker located on a headset wirelessly connected e.g. paired or bonded to the another device. Such an embodiment may be used when parties to a communication session are remote from each other.

It is contemplated that a user can customize an output from the platform . For example the platform may be configured to utter a word character a code word representing the character or a combination thereof. For example the platform may cause an uttering or reading aloud the word e.g. MAIN followed by uttering each character e.g. M A I N . In another example the platform causes an uttering of the word e.g. MAIN followed by uttering each character and code word e.g. M Mike A Alpha I India N November. Alternatively or additionally the platform may be configured to display on a screen an output to be read by the user rather than to generate an audio signal.

It is contemplated that a user may customize an utterance or audible output from the platform . In one embodiment an utterance is produced once the platform generates an audio signal. For example platform generates an audio output for M Mike and inserts a signal into a communication session that causes M Mike to be output on speakers located on all devices to the communication session e.g. mobile device computing device voice station etc. . Additionally or alternatively the platform may truncate mute or otherwise remove other signals such as those detected by microphones located on devices to the communication session to facilitate a detection of utterances. In another embodiment platform generates an audio signal and waits for an event e.g. an expiration of a timer a muting of a microphone an input indicating to cause an utterance etc. before causing an utterance. By way of example platform generates an audio output for 114 Main Street and inserts a signal that causes devices of a communication session e.g. all devices except a device used to select the phrase 114 Main Street to utter 114 Main Street upon a detection of silence in the communication session e.g. microphones on devices in the communication session detect no audible sound or an expiration of a timer e.g. 10 seconds . In this manner platform may be configured to utter or output sound in a manner that is not disruptive to users. As illustrated in the foregoing examples platform may also be configured to cause only a portion or set of devices to a communication session to utter a selected phrase for example all devices except a device used to select the phrase to utter. It is contemplated that other features may be customized such as a delay between spelling each code word e.g. one second delay a type of synthetic voice e.g. male female and the like.

The processes for uttering the spelling of words and phrases over a communication session described herein may be implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. Additional output mechanisms may include haptics audio video etc. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball touch screen or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for adjusting cursor movement on the display .

According to an embodiment of the invention the processes described herein are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiment of the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an embodiment of the invention through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium or non transitory e.g. non volatile media and volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the embodiments of the invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to enable the uttering of a spelling over a communication session. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

According to exemplary embodiments user interface may include one or more displays keypads microphones and or speakers . Display provides a graphical user interface GUI that permits a user of mobile device to view dialed digits call status menu options and other service information. Specifically the display may allow viewing of for example a template. The GUI may include icons and menus as well as other text and symbols. Keypad includes an alphanumeric keypad and may represent other input controls such as one or more button controls dials joysticks touch panels etc. The user thus can construct templates enter field values initialize applications select options from menu systems and the like. Specifically the keypad may enable the inputting of characters and words. Microphone coverts spoken utterances of a user or other auditory sounds e.g. environmental sounds into electronic audio signals whereas speaker converts audio signals into audible sounds or utterances. A camera may be used as an input device to detect images for example a QR code.

Communications circuitry may include audio processing circuitry controller location module such as a GPS receiver coupled to antenna memory messaging module transceiver coupled to antenna and wireless controller coupled to antenna . Memory may represent a hierarchy of memory which may include both random access memory RAM and read only memory ROM . Computer program instructions and corresponding data for operation can be stored in non volatile memory such as erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM and or flash memory. Memory may be implemented as one or more discrete devices stacked devices or integrated with controller . Memory may store information such as contact lists preference information and the like. As previously noted it is contemplated that functions performed by platform may be performed by the mobile device .

Additionally it is contemplated that mobile device may also include one or more applications and thereby may store via memory data associated with these applications for providing users with browsing functions business functions calendar functions communication functions contact managing functions data editing e.g. database word processing spreadsheets etc. functions financial functions gaming functions imaging functions messaging e.g. electronic mail IM MMS SMS etc. functions multimedia functions service functions storage functions synchronization functions task managing functions querying functions and the like. As such signals received by mobile device from for example platform may be utilized by API s and or controller to facilitate the sharing of information and improving the user experience.

Accordingly controller controls the operation of mobile device such as in response to commands received from API s and or data stored to memory . Control functions may be implemented in a single controller or via multiple controllers. Suitable controllers may include for example both general purpose and special purpose controllers and digital signal processors. Controller may interface with audio processing circuitry which provides basic analog output signals to speaker and receives analog audio inputs from microphone .

Mobile device also includes messaging module that is configured to receive transmit and or process messages e.g. enhanced messaging service EMS messages SMS messages MMS messages instant messaging IM messages electronic mail messages and or any other suitable message received from or transmitted to platform or any other suitable component or facility of system . As such messaging module may be configured to receive transmit and or process information shared by the mobile device . For example platform can send an SMS information relating to a template code word and the like.

It is also noted that mobile device can be equipped with wireless controller to communicate with a wireless headset not shown or other wireless network. The headset can employ any number of standard radio technologies to communicate with wireless controller for example the headset can be BLUETOOTH enabled. It is contemplated that other equivalent short range radio technology and protocols can be utilized. While mobile device has been described in accordance with the depicted embodiment of it is contemplated that mobile device may embody many forms and include multiple and or alternative components.

While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly the invention is not limited to such embodiments but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements.

