---

title: Conditional cell placement
abstract: Among other things, one or more techniques for conditional cell placement are provided herein. In an embodiment, a conditional boundary is created for a first cell. For example, the conditional boundary enables the first cell to be placed relative to a second cell based on a conditional placement rule. In an embodiment, the first cell is placed in a first manner relative to the second cell based in a first scenario. In a second scenario, different than the first scenario, the first cell is placed in a second manner relative to the second cell. In this manner, conditional cell placement is provided, thus providing flexibility and improved layout efficiency with regard to semiconductor fabrication, for example.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08560997&OS=08560997&RS=08560997
owner: Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited
number: 08560997
owner_city: Hsin-Chu
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20120725
---
Generally cells of a semiconductor device are laid out according to a place and route boundary prBoundary . For example a first cell is abutted against a second cell along prBoundaries for the respective cells. However a prBoundary is not flexible and placement of cells is not efficient in some scenarios when cells are placed or abutted according to a prBoundary. For example such cell placement is associated with a decrease in power performance and area PPA . Moreover prBoundary cell placement wastes space in some scenarios at least because the first cell is separated from the second cell by decap cells or filler cells.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to be an extensive overview of the claimed subject matter identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more techniques and systems for conditional cell placement in a semiconductor layout are provided herein. In an embodiment a conditional boundary is created for a first cell. For example the conditional boundary is created in addition to a place and route boundary prBoundary . The conditional boundary is a boundary configured to enable flexible cell placement within a semiconductor layout environment. In an embodiment the conditional boundary is a place and route boundary configured to facilitate positioning between cells based on a cell layout of a neighboring cell. In an embodiment the first cell is placed relative to a second cell neighboring the first cell based at least in part on the conditional boundary of the first cell. For example if a first cell comprises a first prBoundary and a first conditional boundary and a second cell comprises a second prBoundary and a second conditional boundary conditional cell placement is enabled according to at least one of the first conditional boundary or the second conditional boundary. In an embodiment the conditional boundary of the first cell enables placement of the first cell relative to the second cell in a manner such that the first prBoundary overlaps the second prBoundary. Therefore conditional cell placement is provided in an efficient manner at least because cell placement is not limited merely by the prBoundary as a constraint.

The following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects are employed. Other aspects advantages or novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It is evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Generally cells of a semiconductor device such as an AND cell OR cell NAND cell NOR cell flip flop cell XOR cell INV cell etc. are laid out in a semiconductor layout environment such that respective cells are abutted according to a place and route boundary prBoundary . However use of such a prBoundary does not provide for flexible cell placement at least because cells are generally abutted against a prBoundary of another cell. For example if a first cell is on a left side and a second cell is on a right side a prBoundary placement configuration generally requires a prBoundary for the first cell to be abutted against a prBoundary for the second cell during cell placement.

It will be appreciated that in some scenarios the first cell and the second cell are capable of being compacted such that the prBoundary of the first cell overlaps the prBoundary of the second cell thus breaking a limitation of the respective prBoundaries. Accordingly space on a semiconductor device is wasted if such an overlap is not provided in a layout associated with the first cell and the second cell. Additionally power performance and area PPA are affected in a negative manner if cell placement is abutted merely based on the respective prBoundaries. In an embodiment a method for conditional cell placement in a semiconductor layout is provided comprising creating a conditional boundary for a first cell and placing the first cell relative to a second cell based at least in part on the conditional boundary of the first cell. For example the conditional boundary of the first cell is abutted against a conditional boundary of the second cell such that a prBoundary of the first cell overlaps a prBoundary of the second cell.

In an embodiment a conditional boundary for a first cell is created based at least in part on a relationship between a first cell and a second cell. In an embodiment the first cell is placed relative to the second cell based at least in part on the conditional boundary and a conditional placement rule. For example if a first cell is laid out in a first manner relative to the second cell in a first scenario and laid out in a second manner relative to the second cell in a second scenario the first cell is placed relative to the second cell in a corresponding manner based on the conditional boundary and the conditional placement rule.

In an embodiment a system for conditional cell placement is provided comprising a boundary component configured to create a first conditional boundary and a first place and route boundary prBoundary for a first cell. In an embodiment the boundary component is configured to create a second conditional boundary and a second prBoundary for a second cell. Additionally the conditional cell placement system comprises a placement engine configured to place the first cell relative to the second cell based at least in part on at least one of the first conditional boundary or the second conditional boundary and at least one of the first prBoundary or the second prBoundary. Therefore the first cell is placed relative to the second cell according to at least one of the conditional boundaries and at least one of the prBoundaries. For example in an embodiment the first cell is placed relative to the second cell such that the first conditional boundary abuts the second conditional boundary. In another embodiment the first cell is placed relative to the second cell by rotating an orientation of the first cell or flipping the first cell according to a line of symmetry.

In other embodiments it will be appreciated that a conditional boundary is used to provide additional separation between cells rather than to a compact cell arrangement. For example if a first cell comprises a first prBoundary and a second cell comprises a second prBoundary a first conditional boundary for the first cell is larger than the first prBoundary and a second conditional boundary for the second is larger than the second prBoundary. For example in another embodiment of is the conditional boundary rather than . Accordingly if the cell is abutted to another cell at the conditional boundary additional separation is provided by spaces and .

For at least some of the Figs. it will be appreciated that the first prBoundary the second prBoundary the first conditional boundary and the second conditional boundary comprise a same height such that a top of the first prBoundary the second prBoundary the first conditional boundary and the second conditional boundary are at line . In other words the first prBoundary the second prBoundary the first conditional boundary and the second conditional boundary are drawn with different heights merely for illustrative purposes and are not necessarily drawn to scale. That is because dashed and dotted lines are used to represent different boundaries if the dashed and dotted lines were drawn on top of one another they would not be distinguishable in the Figs. Accordingly dimensions of some of these boundaries are drawn to be taller or shorter than needed so that the different boundaries are visible in the Figs. for example.

In an embodiment according to a first cell on the left is abutted against a second cell on the right based on prBoundaries and for the cells. In this example the first cell on the left is abutted against the second cell on the right such that respective drain sides and are closer than the respective source sides and . In other embodiments the first cell on the left is abutted against the second cell on the right such that respective source sides and are closer than the respective drain sides and .

It will be appreciated that space comprises a gap where no source and no drain exists. Therefore if the space between the first cell and the second cell is removed in the layout the first cell and the second cell are operationally unaffected. In an embodiment a first conditional boundary encompasses gate at least a portion of gate at least a portion of PMOS source a PMOS drain at least a portion of NMOS source and NMOS drain . In an embodiment a second conditional boundary encompasses gate at least a portion of gate at least a portion of PMOS source a PMOS drain at least a portion of NMOS source and NMOS drain . First conditional boundary for the first cell and second conditional boundary for the second cell are created based at least in part on such a relationship between the first cell and the second cell. For example since removal of space does not affect logical operation of the first cell or the second cell the first conditional boundary and the second conditional boundary are created according to space . In an embodiment the first conditional boundary and the second conditional boundary are created based at least in part on at least one of removal of space an effect of the removal of space on the first cell or the second cell or a relationship between the first cell and the second cell. In an example the relationship between the first cell and the second cell is associated with removing an amount of space such as space such that operation of the first cell operation of the second cell and interaction between the first cell and the second cell are logically unaffected.

It will be appreciated that space of is removed at least because the first cell is abutted against the second cell based on the first conditional boundary and the second conditional boundary . Additionally the first cell and the second cell of are operationally unaffected by the removal of space from in comparison to the first cell and the second cell of . In an embodiment a unit tile comprises a unit tile width and a unit tile height. For example a cell width generally follows a multiple of the unit tile width. Similarly a cell height generally follows a multiple of the unit tile height. In an embodiment if space is a multiple of at least one of the unit tile width or unit tile height the first cell is abutted against the second cell by abutting the first conditional boundary against the second conditional boundary . In this way the space is removed thus saving space from being used within the semiconductor layout environment and being filled with decap cells or filler cells for example.

In an embodiment the first cell is placed relative to the second cell based at least in part on a conditional placement rule. For example the conditional placement rule enables the first cell to be placed relative to the second cell based on the first conditional boundary and the second conditional boundary in a first scenario and places the first cell relative to the second cell based on the first prBoundary and the second prBoundary in a second scenario. For example in the first scenario if the first cell is abutted against the second cell based on the first conditional boundary and the second conditional boundary functionality of the first cell and functionality of the second cell are not affected. That is the first cell and the second cell operate as intended when abutted in a compacted manner associated with removal of space such as in . However in the second scenario if the first cell is abutted against the second cell based on the first conditional boundary and the second conditional boundary functionality of the first cell and functionality of the second cell are affected in a negative manner. That is the first cell and the second cell do not operate as intended when abutted in a compacted manner associated with removal of space such as in . Therefore the first cell is placed relative to the second cell based on the first prBoundary and the second prBoundary in a second scenario rather than the first conditional boundary and the second conditional boundary . In an embodiment the conditional placement rule checks for appropriate functionality to determine a conditional boundary for example. The conditional placement rule is based on a relationship between the first cell and the second cell in some embodiments. For example the conditional placement rule enables abutting of cells based on conditional boundaries if a first cell interacts with a second cell in a same manner as when the cells are abutted based on prBoundaries. In other words in an embodiment a conditional placement rule checks for the first cell and the second cell of to comprise a same functionality as the first cell and the second cell of for example. In an embodiment the first cell is placed relative to the second cell by abutting the first cell against the second cell based on at least one of a unit tile width or a unit tile height a distance from the first conditional boundary to the second conditional boundary and no cells between the first conditional boundary and the second conditional boundary . In an embodiment the first cell is abutted against the second cell if the distance from the first conditional boundary to the second conditional boundary such as space of is a multiple of the unit tile width. In another embodiment the first cell is abutted against the second cell based on no source regions and no drain regions between the first conditional boundary and the second conditional boundary . In an embodiment the first cell is placed relative to the second cell based on a design rule check DRC .

It will be appreciated that in some embodiments a computer aided design CAD layer is created for at least one of the first prBoundary second prBoundary first conditional boundary or second conditional boundary . For example one or more coordinates are associated with at least one of the first prBoundary second prBoundary first conditional boundary or second conditional boundary . Additionally the first conditional boundary and the second conditional boundary are associated with one or more offsets from the first prBoundary and the second prBoundary respectively. In this way the first conditional boundary and the second conditional boundary are referenced by using offsets and the first prBoundary and the second prBoundary .

It will be appreciated that in some scenarios PMOS source and NMOS source of the first cell are capable of being abutted to PMOS source and NMOS source of the second cell. In an embodiment the PMOS source of the first cell is abutted to the PMOS source of the second cell and the NMOS source of the first cell is abutted to the NMOS source of the second cell. In an embodiment the first cell is capable of being abutted to the second cell based on a conditional placement rule. In an example a conditional placement rule checks for at least one of the PMOS source or the PMOS source to be connected to a first power domain or a supply voltage Vdd and at least one of the NMOS source or the NMOS source to be connected to a second power domain or a ground VSS and abuts the first cell against the second cell accordingly.

In an embodiment according to the first cell is placed relative to the second cell based on the first prBoundary and the second prBoundary . In an embodiment a first cell on the left is abutted against a second cell on the right based on prBoundaries and for the cells. In this example the first cell on the left is abutted against the second cell on the right such that respective source sides and are closer than the respective drain sides and .

It will be appreciated that space comprises a gap where an additional gate separates source regions and and and for the first cell and the second cell respectively. In an embodiment if the space between the first cell and the second cell is removed in the layout the first cell and the second cell are operationally unaffected. First conditional boundary for the first cell and second conditional boundary for the second cell are created or defined based at least in part on this relationship between the first cell and the second cell. For example since removal of space does not affect logical operation of the first cell or the second cell the first conditional boundary and the second conditional boundary are created according to space . In an embodiment the first conditional boundary and the second conditional boundary are created based at least in part on removal of space an effect of the removal of space on the first cell or the second cell or a relationship between the first cell and the second cell. In an example the relationship between the first cell and the second cell is associated with removing an amount of space such as space such that operation of the first cell operation of the second cell and interaction between the first cell and the second cell are logically unaffected.

It will be appreciated that space of is removed at least because the first cell is abutted against the second cell based on the first conditional boundary and the second conditional boundary . Additionally the first cell and the second cell of are operationally unaffected by the removal of space from in comparison to the first cell and the second cell of . In this way the space is removed thus mitigating use of an additional unit tile width within the semiconductor layout environment. In an embodiment a conditional placement rule checks for the first cell and the second cell of to comprise a same functionality as the first cell and the second cell of for example. Therefore the conditional placement rule enables conditional cell placement based at least in part on a relationship between the first cell and the second cell. In an embodiment a first cell is a neighboring cell relative to a second cell. For example in an embodiment a first cell is adjacent to a second cell if no cells are located between a first conditional boundary of the first cell and a second conditional boundary of the second cell.

For at least some of the Figs. it will be appreciated that a first conditional boundary and a second conditional boundary are formed at edges and respectively. Additionally the first conditional boundary and the second conditional boundary comprise a same width as a first prBoundary and a second prBoundary respectively. In other words the conditional boundaries and are drawn with a different width than prBoundaries and merely for illustrative purposes and are therefore not necessarily drawn to scale. That is because dashed and dotted lines are used to represent different boundaries if the dashed and dotted lines were drawn on top of one another they would not be distinguishable in the Figs. Accordingly dimensions of some of these boundaries are drawn to be wider or narrower than needed so that the different boundaries are visible in the Figs. for example.

It will be appreciated that in some embodiments the first cell is defined by a first conditional boundary and the second cell is defined by a second conditional boundary . In an embodiment a first cell is placed relative to a second cell by at least one of rotating an orientation of the first conditional boundary or flipping the first conditional boundary according to a line of symmetry. For example in the line of symmetry is Vdd . Accordingly in an embodiment of the first cell is flipped over Vdd such that space of is removed and the first cell is abutted against the second cell. For example in the first P portion is above the first N portion while in the first P portion is below the second N portion . In another embodiment the cell of is rotated 180 degrees and placed in . In this way a height of the semiconductor device is reduced from four unit tiles in to three unit tiles in . For example the height of the semiconductor device is four unit tiles in at least because space is unoccupied.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An example embodiment of a computer readable medium or a computer readable device that is devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium such as a CD R DVD R flash drive a platter of a hard disk drive etc. on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In an embodiment the processor executable computer instructions are configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of or at least some of exemplary method of for example. In another embodiment the processor executable computer instructions are configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media are devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components residing within a process or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter is implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions are distributed via computer readable media as will be discussed below. Computer readable instructions are implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions are combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device includes additional features or functionality. For example device also includes additional storage such as removable storage or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In an embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein are in storage . Storage also stores other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions are loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media is part of device .

The term computer readable media includes communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal includes a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device includes input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers or any other output device are also included in device . Input device s and output device s are connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In an embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device are used as input device s or output device s for computing device . Device also includes communication connection s to facilitate communications with one or more other devices.

According to an aspect a method for conditional cell placement in a semiconductor layout is provided comprising creating a conditional boundary for a first cell. The method comprises placing the first cell relative to a second cell based at least in part on the conditional boundary of the first cell.

According to an aspect a computer readable storage medium is provided comprising computer executable instructions which when executed at least in part via a processing unit on a computer perform a method for conditional cell placement in a semiconductor layout comprising creating a conditional boundary for a first cell based at least in part on a relationship between the first cell and a second cell. In an embodiment the method comprises placing the first cell relative to the second cell based at least in part on the conditional boundary and a conditional placement rule.

According to an aspect a system for conditional cell placement in a semiconductor layout is provided comprising a boundary component and a placement engine. In an embodiment the boundary component is configured to create a first conditional boundary and a first place and route boundary prBoundary for a first cell. In an embodiment the boundary component is configured to create a second conditional boundary and a second prBoundary for a second cell. In an embodiment the placement engine is configured to a placement engine configured to place the first cell relative to the second cell based at least in part on at least one of the first conditional boundary or the second conditional boundary and at least one of the first prBoundary or the second prBoundary.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter of the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance illustration etc. and not necessarily as advantageous. As used in this application or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . In addition a and an as used in this application are generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B. Furthermore to the extent that includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising .

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims.

