---

title: Method and system for network failover and network selection with multi-mode modem in remote access points
abstract: The present disclosure discloses a method and network device for network failover and/or network selection with a multi-mode modem in remote access points. A RAP initially is set to allow the modem's firmware to select an ISP-preferred available network. Then, the RAP collects network selection attributes, including RSSI, for the selected network, derives a NSC value based on the attributes, and determines whether the derived NSC value is within an expected range. If so, the device establishes a secure tunnel connection through the modem on the modem-selected network. Otherwise, the RAP commands the modem connect to an alternative network, and derives the NSC value for the alternative network selected by the RAP. If the NSC value for the alternative network is within an expected range, the RAP establishes a secure connection on the alternative network. On rebootstrap, the RAP repeats the above operations until a stable network is selected.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08537715&OS=08537715&RS=08537715
owner: Aruba Networks, Inc.
number: 08537715
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121030
---
The present disclosure relates to wireless network selection. In particular the present disclosure relates to a system and method for network failover and network selection with multi mode modem in remote access points.

Mobility in the corporate world is increasing at an incredible rate with users traveling around the globe and working partially or fully at home. The ability to move and remain fully connected is the paramount concern. The office connection needs to be pervasive and available no matter where the user is physically located. Productivity shall not be hindered simply because the user is not in the corporate office.

Remote Access Point RAP solutions involve configuring a thin access point to provide certain level of services to a remote client by tunneling securely back to the corporate network. The same Service Set Identifiers SSIDs encryption and authentication requirements that exist on the corporate network are present on the RAP. The client device at a remote node or branch will automatically associate with the RAP as it would in the central node or corporate network and allows for centralized management of a truly mobile edge. Thus RAP is an extension of the corporate network in a similar fashion to a branch office with simplified configurations and integrated security.

A RAP can connect to a corporate network through a multi mode modem that supports multiple types of networks e.g. 2G networks 3G networks 4G networks etc. Usually the multi mode modem is configured with a factory default setting indicating an Internet Service Provider ISP preferred network. If the multi mode modem fails to establish a connection over the ISP preferred network it will select a secondary network. However in some cases the multi mode modem is able to establish a connection on the ISP preferred network. Nonetheless the quality of connection over the ISP preferred network between the RAP and the control device on the corporate network may not be good enough for establishing a secured tunnel e.g. a Generic Routing Encapsulation GRE tunnel for secure data transmission. As a result remote users will fail in their attempt to connect to the corporate network due to the poor signal quality of the connection on the ISP preferred network.

Hence conventional RAP solutions cannot assure quick selection of a stable network with a multi mode modem over which a secure data transmission tunnel can be successfully established with the corporate network. At best a network administrator has to track all available networks at the location of RAP deployment. If the network administrator observes that the network signal coverage on the ISP preferred network is not good enough and assuming that an alternative network at the location has better coverage the network administrator will need to manually provision or re provision the RAP with the parameters corresponding to the alternative network and reboot the RAP if needed such that the clients at the remote node branch can establish a secure communication path with the corporate network through the modem over the alternative network.

In the following description several specific details are presented to provide a thorough understanding. While the context of the disclosure is directed to channel scanning in discovery stage of fast roaming in wireless network one skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the concepts and techniques disclosed herein can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or in combination with other components etc. In other instances well known implementations or operations are not shown or described in details to avoid obscuring aspects of various examples disclosed herein. It should be understood that this disclosure covers all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

Embodiments of the present disclosure relate to wireless network selection. In particular the present disclosure relates to a system and method for network failover and network selection with multi mode modem in remote access points.

According to embodiments of the present disclosure the multi mode modem is initially set in factory default mode e.g. an automatic mode allowing the modem firmware to select the available network. Then for the selected network e.g. a 4G network collect primary and secondary network selection attributes derive a network selection criteria NSC value and determine whether the derived NSC value is within an expected range.

If the NSC value is within the expected range the RAP will establish secure tunnel connection through the multi mode modem on the modem selected network. If however the NSC value is not within the expected range then the RAP will set the multi mode modem to an alternative network e.g. 3G network . The RAP will then derive the NSC value for the alternative network and determine whether the derived NSC value is within an expected range. If so the RAP will establish secure tunnel connection through the multi mode modem on alternative network. On subsequent rebootstrap events the RAP will repeat the above operations until a stable network with good quality for secured tunnel connection to the corporate network is selected.

Central node has a plurality of digital devices including both network devices that provide network services and client devices that consume network services. The network devices include one or more control devices e.g. control device .

In addition to optional data traffic forwarding control device handles a variety of traffic on the control plane including Bridge Protocol Data Units BPDUs routing updates Hot Standby Router Protocol HSRP process switched packets Address Resolution Protocol ARP and management traffic such as Secure Shell SSH Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP Remote Authentication Dial In User Service RADIUS etc.

Moreover control device may be communicating with a plurality of other network devices such as access points. Each network device such as access point can be communicatively coupled to zero or more client devices via one or more wired and or wireless interfaces. Trusted communications among various digital devices at central node are typically secured by a firewall or similar security policies and mechanisms.

Remote node on the other hand typically needs to establish a secure communication path such as a Generic Routing Encapsulation GRE tunnel for a digital device at the remote node to communicate to digital devices at central node . In some embodiments the secure communication path can be established over a network connection through a network device at an Internet Service Provider ISP e.g. a modem device such as modem .

Modem may support multiple modes and thus allow selections from multiple available types of networks when a access point such as access point attempts to establish a connection through modem . For example networks supported by a multi mode modem may include 2G networks e.g. a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA network etc. 3G networks e.g. an Evolution Data Optimized EVDO network a High Speed Packet Access HSPA etc. 4G networks e.g. a Long Term Evolution LTE network a Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX etc. and so on. After the access point e.g. access point establishes the connection tunnel through modem all clients including client can use the connection tunnel for traffic transmissions.

In some embodiments an Internet Service Provider ISP providing the modem may pre configure a preferred network e.g. a 4G network among all of the available networks that the modem supports. Thus if the modem detects that a preferred network e.g. a 4G network is available the firmware of the modem will select the preferred network e.g. the 4G network over other available networks e.g. 2G or 3G networks to connect to.

Moreover remote access node also includes a remote access point e.g. access point . Access point usually is a thin access point that provides services to a remote client through a secure communication path to the corporate network. The same Service Set Identifiers SSIDs encryption and authentication requirements that exist on the corporate network may present on access point . The client device will automatically associate with the RAP as it would in the corporate network and allows for centralized management of a truly mobile edge.

Furthermore access point at remote node communicatively coupled with multi mode modem is generally capable of one or more of the followings 

Central node depicted in may operate on a private network including one or more local area networks. The local area networks may be adapted to allow wireless access thereby operating as a wireless local area network WLAN . Moreover the network may include a wired or wireless distribution system.

In addition networks at central node and or remote node may include multiple other network control plane devices such as network controllers switches routers etc. that transmits at least control plane traffic. Network control plane devices can provide functions such as creating and enforcing network policies providing adaptive radio management intrusion prevention quality of service mobility etc. Furthermore networks at central node and or remote node may also include a plurality of servers and or client devices.

In a typical embodiment when client connects with access point and requests connection to a corporate network at central node access point can establish a secure communication path through multi mode modem which supports multiple types of networks e.g. 2G networks 3G networks 4G networks etc. Modem usually is configured with a factory default setting indicating an Internet Service Provider ISP preferred network for example a 4G network. If modem fails to establish a connection over the ISP preferred network e.g. the 4G network it will select a secondary network e.g. a 3G network .

However in some cases modem may be able to establish a non secure connection on the ISP preferred network e.g. the 4G network . Nonetheless the quality of the connection between access point and control device at central node may not be good enough for establishing a secure communication path e.g. an encapsulated tunnel such as a Generic Routing Encapsulation GRE tunnel for secure data transmission between client and digital devices at central node . Accordingly client will not be able to connect to the corporate network on the ISP preferred network although client may access other Internet resources through modem on the ISP preferred network.

According to embodiments of the preset disclosure access point can determine a network selection or failover among multiple available networks supported by modem based on a plurality of attributes which help identifying a stable network. First the method and or system exploit the factory default mode e.g. the ISP preferred network selection according to modem s firmware settings.

Also access point will be set with a pre determined bootstrap threshold time period e.g. 30 seconds. The threshold time period can be configured and or adjusted by a network administrator based on the deployment location of access point the provider of modem service requirements from client etc. In some embodiments the network administrator can configure multiple access points with the same threshold time period at the same time in a group. In some embodiments the threshold time period value can be determined based shared network requirements and or attributes.

If within the pre determined bootstrap threshold time period modem fails to connect to the ISP preferred network or cannot successfully maintain a stable connection with the ISP preferred network the firmware of modem will usually use its built in mechanism to select to connect to a secondary network.

If a connection either to the ISP preferred network or to a secondary network has been established by modem access point will start communication exchanges with control device at central node . In some embodiments control device monitors connection attributes associated with the connection between remote node and central node via a series of heartbeats. The heartbeats are periodic message which helps in monitoring the health of the remote node s uplink connectivity. If access point fails to receive a signal such as a heartbeat from control device at central node within the pre determined bootstrap threshold time period the absence of heartbeat reception may indicate a connection issue with the uplink of access point . For example the connection may be dropped due to poor connectivity.

Next access point will obtain a plurality of primary and secondary network selection attributes for the selected network by modem . The primary and secondary network selection attributes are related to criteria that are not typically used by multi mode modem vendors and thus not considered in the network selection or failover decision by the modem firmware. The primary and secondary network selection attributes will be described in details in sections below.

Furthermore access point derives a network selection criteria NSC value associated with the network selected by modem . Furthermore access point determines whether the NSC value for the network selected by modem if any is within an expected range. If so access point will connect to the network selected by modem .

If the NSC value of the network selected by modem is not within the expected range then access point will communicate to modem to set modem to an alternative network that is different from the prior selected network by modem . After modem selects the alternative network as communicated by access point access point derives the NSC value and determines whether the NSC value for the network selection communicated by access point is within an expected range. If so access point will connect to the alternative network communicated to modem by access point .

In some embodiments if an established connection between remote node and central node may not stable or may fail subsequently e.g. when access point is located on a moving object that moves from a 4G network coverage area into a 3G network coverage area the subsequent poor connectivity after initial connection establishment may make it necessary for access point to be re provisioned and reboot. In those scenarios on each subsequent rebootstrap event access point will repeat the operations described above. These operations allow access point at remote node to be able to select a stable network among available networks within a short duration and without changing modem s firmware network selection in scenarios where no change is needed.

According to embodiments of present disclosure additional provisioning parameters will need to be configured on access point to support for network selection or network failover by access point . The additional provisioning parameters include but are not limited to a 4G network type selection parameter e.g. 4g usb type a 3G network type selection parameter e.g. usb type etc.

The 4G network type selection parameter such as 4g usb type can be configured with any of a plurality of options including but not limited to beceem wimax 2. ether lte pantech lte etc. Moreover the 3G network type selection parameter such as usb type can be configured with any of a plurality of options including but not limited to ether 3g pantech 3g etc.

In some embodiments if only the 4G network type selection parameter is configured and the 3G network type selection parameter is not configured access point will connect on a 4G network only. Likewise if only the 3G network type selection parameter is configured and the 4G network type selection parameter is not connected access point will connect on a 3G network only.

In some embodiments when both the 4G network type selection parameter and the 3G network type selection parameter are configured on access point access point can be provisioned in both 4G and 3G mode and thus allowing for automatic network selection between 3G network and 4G network.

In addition additional command line interface CLI commands will also be supported by access point . The additional CLI commands may include but are not limited to a command for providing modem s USB modem state such as show ap debug usb ap name. The results of the command may indicate but are not limited to the following USB modem states Active Standby Backup Error Not plugged etc. Moreover the additional CLI command may also include e.g. a command whose execution results indicate one or more available network services a command whose execution results indicate the current network service a command whose execution results indicate a version corresponding to firmware of modem etc.

Primary attributes includes but is not limited to received signal strength indicator RSSI . Based on the value of RSSI the operating Signal Strength Level SSL can be classified into multiple grades for example Grade I or Great Grade II or Good Grade III or Moderate and Grade IV or Poor. Table 1 below shows an exemplary RSSI mapping and or classification.

In some embodiments access point at remote node will connect to a particular type of wireless network only if the RSSI value detected on the particular network is higher than a required threshold value e.g. a moderate signal strength level.

Furthermore secondary network selection attributes may include but are not limited to a current network service type ST network conditions NC system performance SP remote access point capabilities RC user preference policy UP cost of service CS etc.

According to embodiments of the present disclosure access point at the remote node may derive a network selection criteria NSC value by giving primary attributes and secondary attributes various weights. In some embodiments primary attributes are given more weights than secondary attributes . A remote user may alter the weights assigned to various network selection attributes based on user requirements.

The exemplary formula given below describes one way of deriving network selection criteria NSC value. NSC RSSI ST NC SP RC UP CS where 

Note that typically w pa is greater than w sa . For example a network administrator may assign 60 to w pa and 40 to w sa . After the Network Selection Criteria NSC value is calculated by applying the above formula the NSC value will be compared to a required or expected threshold limit. The RAP will select a nominal network mode only if the NSC value is above the required expected threshold limit.

In some embodiments secondary attributes such as Network Conditions NC System Performance SP RAP Capabilities RC User preferences policy UP and Cost of Service CS are controlled by an external entity whether derived or provisioned. Therefore by default such parameters are set to 0 null or its equivalent.

In an example for illustration purposes only consider that a RAP is deployed with a multi mode modem e.g. UML290 with default setting on good RSSI LTE coverage and no additional user preference provisioned Also the example assumes that primary attributes are given 60 of weight and secondary attributes are given 40 of weights. Hence the NSC value for this RAP deployment will be calculated as 0.6 0.9 1 0.4 0.94.

Multi mode modems using different versions of firmware may require access points to communicate with the modems differently. For example when a RAP is provisioned with only 4G network selection parameter e.g. setting 4g usb type as pantech lte then the modem will be locked in LTE only mode and thus the RAP will try to connect to 4G LTE network only. As another example if the RAP is provisioned with other 3G network selection parameter e.g. setting usb type as pantech 3g and if the 4G network selection parameter is not provisioned e.g. setting 4g usb type to none then the modem will be locked in the 3G only mode either in CDMAX1 or EVDO . As a result the RAP will try to connect to 3G CDMA network even when 4G network is available.

Table 3 below shows an exemplary RAP provisioning for 3G 4G network selection failover support for one type of multi mode modem e.g. Verizon 4G LTE UML 290 . In Table 3 it is assumed that the multi mode modem uses a firmware version of L0290VWB522F.242 or above and supports at least a USB interface and a QMA interface that allows dynamic communications of network selection commands from the remote access point.

In some embodiments where different types of multi mode modem is used when a RAP is provisioned with only 4G network selection parameter e.g. setting 4g usb type as ether lte then the modem will be locked in LTE only mode and thus the RAP will try to connect to 4G LTE network only. As another example if the RAP is provisioned with other 3G network selection parameter e.g. setting usb type as ether 3g and if the 4G network selection parameter is not provisioned e.g. setting 4g usb type to none then the modem will be locked in the 3G only mode either in CDMAX1 or EVDO . As a result the RAP will try to connect to 3G CDMA network even when 4G network is available. If however the RAP is provisioned with both 4G and 3G network selection parameters then the modem will be put in 4G LTE only mode initially. Subsequently if the 4G network coverage is not available then the RAP will try to select a network based on derived NSC value which is calculated based on one or more network selection parameters including RSSI if firmware fails to select a stable network within a pre determined threshold time period.

Table 4 below shows an exemplary RAP provisioning for 3G 4G network selection failover support for another type of multi mode modem e.g. MC551L . In Table 3 it is assumed that the multi mode modem uses a firmware version of 1.23.01 SVN 0 or above and supports at least a USB interface and a QMA interface that allows dynamic communications of network selection commands from the remote access point.

The following use case scenario demonstrates an exemplary usage of embodiments disclosed herein for illustration purposes only. A large variety of commands and settings can be used in the alternative without departing from the spirit of the invention. In the exemplary use case scenario first the control device at the central node can provision 4G network selection parameters e.g. by setting 4g usb type value as lte pantech usb type value as pantech 3g and set celluar link priority to be higher than ehternet link priority. This provisioning infers that 3G 4G network will be given higher preference compared to Ethernet. With the above setting the RAP will try connecting through its USB link first based on the NSC value derived as disclosed above. If the RAP fails to connect to any cellular network e.g. 3G network or 4G network within a specific amount of time the RAP fails over to Ethernet. If on the other hand the provisioned RAP successfully connects to a 4G network or 3G network the control device at the central node will subsequently show the result of CLI command show ap database as Remote AP R and Cellular C . In addition execution results of commands such as show ap database usb will show information including but not limited to RSSI value network service currently being used etc.

During operations the disclosed system initially selects through multi mode modem firmware a first network among available networks based on the default modem configuration operation . Next the disclosed system collects network selection attributes including both primary attributes and optionally secondary attributes operation .

The disclosed system then calculates a network selection criteria NSC value operation and determines whether the NSC value is within a required expected range associated with the first network operation . If so the system connects to the selected network operation . If not the system set through the modem s firmware an alternate network in available networks operation and repeats the calculating and determining operations operations .

Furthermore the disclosed system can determine whether a signal associated with secure communication path e.g. a GRE tunnel establishment is received from a central network node within a pre determined period of time operation . If so the disclosed system proceeds to establish a secure communication path e.g. a GRE tunnel between a remote access point at the remote node and a control device at the central node operation . If however no signal is received from the central node within the pre determined period of time the disclosed device will determine a secondary network to connect to operation . The selection of the secondary network can be performed by a remote access point based on a NSC value derived from a plurality of network selection parameters including both primary attributes and optionally secondary attributes as described above.

Next the disclosed system will command the multi mode modem to select the secondary network operation . After the secondary network is selected by the multi mode modem the disclosed system may establish a secure communication path e.g. a GRE tunnel between a remote access point at the remote node and a control device at the central node operation . Thereafter the system may repeat operations until a stable network connection has established not shown .

Network device includes at least one or more radio antennas capable of either transmitting or receiving radio signals or both a network interface capable of communicating to a wired or wireless network a processor capable of processing computing instructions and a memory capable of storing instructions and data. Moreover network device further includes a receiving mechanism a transmitting mechanism and a network selection mechanism all of which are coupled to processor and memory in network device . Network device may be used as a client system or a server system or may serve as node in a distributed or a cloud computing environment.

Radio antenna may be any combination of known or conventional electrical components for receipt of signaling including but not limited to transistors capacitors resistors multiplexers wiring registers diodes or any other electrical components known or later become known.

Network interface can be any communication interface which includes but is not limited to a modem token ring interface Ethernet interface wireless IEEE 802.11 interface e.g. IEEE 802.11n IEEE 802.11ac etc cellular wireless interface satellite transmission interface or any other interface for coupling network devices. In some embodiments network interface may be software defined and programmable for example via an Application Programming Interface API and thus allowing for remote control of the network device .

Processor can include one or more microprocessors and or network processors. Memory can include storage components such as Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM Static Random Access Memory SRAM etc.

Receiving mechanism generally receives one or more network messages via network interface from a network or a client or radio antenna from a wireless client over a wireless communication channel. The received network messages may include but are not limited to requests and or responses beacon frames management frames control path frames and so on. Each message may comprise one or more data packets for example in the form of IP packets.

Transmitting mechanism generally transmits messages which include but are not limited to requests and or responses beacon frames management frames control path frames and so on.

Network selection mechanism generally selects one of a plurality of available networks supported by a multi mode modem associated with network device .

Specifically network selection mechanism connects from network device to a first network selected by a multi mode modem that supports a plurality of networks. Also network selection mechanism derives a network selection criterion value which is based at least in part on a received signal strength level of a signal received on the first network. If the derived network selection criterion value corresponding to the first network is not within an expected range network selection mechanism commands the multi mode modem to select a second network from the plurality of networks. If on the other hand the derived network selection criterion value corresponding to the first network is within the expected range the network selection mechanism establishes a secure communication path through the multi mode modem to a central corporate network. In one embodiment the secure communication path includes a Generic Routing Encapsulation GRE tunnel.

Note that in some embodiments the first network is determined by a firmware associated with the multi mode modem and the second network is determined by the network device. Furthermore in some embodiments the network selection criterion value corresponding to the first network not being within the expected range indicates that the network device is unlikely to establish the secure communication path to the central network through the multi mode modem.

In some embodiments network selection mechanism further initiates a timer with a predefined time period. If the network selection criterion value corresponding to the first network is not within the expected range and the timer expires network selection mechanism further connects to an alternative network selected by the multi mode modem. Note that in these embodiments network selection mechanism commands the multi mode modem to select the second network if the network selection criterion value corresponding to the alternative network selected by the multi mode modem is not within the expected range.

In some embodiments network selection mechanism further collects a plurality of network selection attributes including but not limited to one or more of the following a current network service type a network condition a system performance measure a remote access point capability a user preference a user policy a cost of service etc. Furthermore the network selection criterion value may be determined based on a weighted average value of the collected plurality of network selection attributes above.

Specifically the current network service type includes but is not limited to one or more of a 4G network comprising one or more of a Long Term Evolution LTE network a Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX network a 3G network comprising one or more of an Evolution Data Optimized EVDO network a High Speed Packet Access HSPA network a 2G network comprising one or more of a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA network etc.

Moreover the network condition includes but is not limited to one or more of a data transmission rate an amount of network access delay a pre defined Quality of Service QoS parameter associated with each network service type etc.

Also the system performance includes but is not limited to one or more of a path loss parameter a Bit Error Rate BER a round trip time RTT etc. The remote access point capability generally indicates at least the network device s capability to control the multi mode modem. The user preference generally indicates at least a remote user s preference on the network service. The user policy generally indicates a network administration policy applicable to the remote user. And the cost of service generally includes a traffic plan cost amount.

Therefore receiving mechanism transmitting mechanism and network selection mechanism often collectively operate with each other to provide support for network failover and or network selection with multi mode modem in remote access points.

According to embodiments of the present disclosure network services provided by wireless network device solely or in combination with other wireless network devices include but are not limited to an Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.1x authentication to an internal and or external Remote Authentication Dial In User Service RADIUS server an MAC authentication to an internal and or external RADIUS server a built in Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP service to assign wireless client devices IP addresses an internal secured management interface Layer 3 forwarding Network Address Translation NAT service between the wireless network and a wired network coupled to the network device an internal and or external captive portal an external management system for managing the network devices in the wireless network etc.

The present disclosure may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The present disclosure may be realized in a centralized fashion in one computer system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems coupled to a network. A typical combination of hardware and software may be an access point with a computer program that when being loaded and executed controls the device such that it carries out the methods described herein.

The present disclosure also may be embedded in non transitory fashion in a computer readable storage medium e.g. a programmable circuit a semiconductor memory such as a volatile memory such as random access memory RAM or non volatile memory such as read only memory power backed RAM flash memory phase change memory or the like a hard disk drive an optical disc drive or any connector for receiving a portable memory device such as a Universal Serial Bus USB flash drive which comprises all the features enabling the implementation of the methods described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these methods. Computer program in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form.

As used herein digital device generally includes a device that is adapted to transmit and or receive signaling and to process information within such signaling such as a station e.g. any data processing equipment such as a computer cellular phone personal digital assistant tablet devices etc. an access point data transfer devices such as network switches routers controllers etc. or the like.

As used herein access point AP generally refers to receiving points for any known or convenient wireless access technology which may later become known. Specifically the term AP is not intended to be limited to IEEE 802.11 based APs. APs generally function as an electronic device that is adapted to allow wireless devices to connect to a wired network via various communications standards.

As used herein the term interconnect or used descriptively as interconnected is generally defined as a communication pathway established over an information carrying medium. The interconnect may be a wired interconnect wherein the medium is a physical medium e.g. electrical wire optical fiber cable bus traces etc. a wireless interconnect e.g. air in combination with wireless signaling technology or a combination of these technologies.

As used herein information is generally defined as data address control management e.g. statistics or any combination thereof. For transmission information may be transmitted as a message namely a collection of bits in a predetermined format. One type of message namely a wireless message includes a header and payload data having a predetermined number of bits of information. The wireless message may be placed in a format as one or more packets frames or cells.

As used herein wireless local area network WLAN generally refers to a communications network links two or more devices using some wireless distribution method for example spread spectrum or orthogonal frequency division multiplexing radio and usually providing a connection through an access point to the Internet and thus providing users with the mobility to move around within a local coverage area and still stay connected to the network.

As used herein the term mechanism generally refers to a component of a system or device to serve one or more functions including but not limited to software components electronic components electrical components mechanical components electro mechanical components etc.

As used herein the term embodiment generally refers an embodiment that serves to illustrate by way of example but not limitation.

It will be appreciated to those skilled in the art that the preceding examples and embodiments are exemplary and not limiting to the scope of the present disclosure. It is intended that all permutations enhancements equivalents and improvements thereto that are apparent to those skilled in the art upon a reading of the specification and a study of the drawings are included within the true spirit and scope of the present disclosure. It is therefore intended that the following appended claims include all such modifications permutations and equivalents as fall within the true spirit and scope of the present disclosure.

While the present disclosure has been described in terms of various embodiments the present disclosure should not be limited to only those embodiments described but can be practiced with modification and alteration within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Likewise where a reference to a standard is made in the present disclosure the reference is generally made to the current version of the standard as applicable to the disclosed technology area. However the described embodiments may be practiced under subsequent development of the standard within the spirit and scope of the description and appended claims. The description is thus to be regarded as illustrative rather than limiting.

