---

title: Apparatus for mixing contents enclosed within a container
abstract: An apparatus for mixing contents within an enclosed container, which includes a mixing element composed of a magnetically interactive material, which is configured for placement within the enclosed container, a movable member disposed outside of the enclosed container, the movable member being magnetically engageable with the mixing element, a base member for positioning the movable member proximate the enclosed container, and a motor adapted for driving the movable member in a continuous, reciprocating or oscillating motion relative to the enclosed container, wherein the movable member interacts with and urges the mixing element to translate between a first position and a second position within the container, and one of the mixing element or an end portion of the armature is a magnet.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08657484&OS=08657484&RS=08657484
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08657484
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120118
---
The present invention relates to mixing devices and more particularly to apparatus adapted for mixing contents enclosed within a container by magnetic action.

Magnetic stirring or mixing devices used for mixing fluids such as slurries solutions or suspensions are commercially available in the market. Such magnetic stirrers generally employ a magnetic stir bar immersed in a liquid filled container such as a beaker and a rotating magnetic field to cause the stir bar to spin rapidly. The resulting spinning action stirs the liquid continuously. A magnetic stirrer typically includes the magnetic stir bar a flat platform or base supporting thereon the container of liquid and a rotating magnet assembly or set of stationary magnets disposed within the base to create the rotating magnetic field below the container. The magnetic stir bar is usually a bar magnet coated with a plastic porcelain or glass material to make it chemically inert.

Although true solutions do not usually require constant mixing suspensions containing small particles e.g. biological cells micro solids protein must be constantly mixed to prevent the particles from separating out over time due to gravitational settling especially in enclosed containers. Absent constant mixing uniformity in the concentration and distribution of the particles diminishes over time. Magnetic stirrers are particularly useful for maintaining uniform mixtures. However it becomes problematic where the container is positioned or mounted on devices such as in a syringe pump assembly in a manner that access to the container by conventional magnetic stirrers is unavailable.

Accordingly there is a need in the art to develop an apparatus for mixing contents enclosed within a container with enhanced flexibility and efficiency. There is a further need for such an apparatus that can be implemented for use with enclosed containers arranged in various embodiments and configurations including elongated containers such as syringes.

The present invention relates generally to an apparatus for mixing contents enclosed within a container such as a syringe by magnetic action. The apparatus of the present invention is designed with enhanced flexibility and portability useful for accommodating different container configurations and placements thereof. In particular the apparatus of the present invention is especially useful where the container is positioned or mounted on devices such as in a syringe pump assembly and access to the container by the conventional magnetic stirrer is problematic.

The apparatus of the present invention includes a continuous oscillating or reciprocating member which can be selectively positioned proximate an accessible portion of a container and a mixing element freely movable within the container and magnetically engageable with the continuous oscillating or reciprocating member. During operation the continuous oscillating or reciprocating member moves in a manner causing the mixing element to shift or translate between a first position and a second position within the container. The apparatus of the present invention is relatively simple and cost effective to make and implement.

In one aspect of the present invention there is provided an apparatus for mixing contents within an enclosed container which comprises 

a movable member disposed outside of the enclosed container the movable member being magnetically engageable with the mixing element 

a motor adapted for driving the movable member in a continuous reciprocating or oscillating motion relative to the enclosed container wherein the movable member interacts with and urges the mixing element to translate between a first position and a second position within the container.

The present invention is directed to an apparatus for mixing contents enclosed within a container such as a syringe by magnetic action. The apparatus of the present invention is designed with enhanced flexibility and portability useful for accommodating different container configurations and placements thereof. In particular the apparatus of the present invention is especially useful where the container is positioned or mounted on devices such as in a syringe pump assembly and access to the container by the conventional magnetic stirrer is problematic.

The apparatus of the present invention includes a continuous oscillating or reciprocating member which can be selectively positioned proximate an accessible portion of a container and a mixing element freely movable within the container and magnetically engageable with the continuous oscillating or reciprocating member. During operation the continuous oscillating or reciprocating member moves in a manner causing the mixing element to shift or translate between a first position and a second position within the container. The apparatus of the present invention is relatively simple and cost effective to make and implement.

There is provided an apparatus for mixing contents within an enclosed container which includes a mixing element configured for placement within the enclosed container a movable member disposed outside of the enclosed container where the movable member is magnetically engageable with the mixing element a base member for positioning the movable member proximate the enclosed container and a motor adapted for driving the movable member in a continuous reciprocating or oscillating motion relative to the enclosed container wherein the movable member interacts with and urges the mixing element to translate between a first position and a second position within the container.

In reference to there is shown an apparatus identified generally by reference numeral useful for magnetically mixing contents enclosed within a container in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. As noted above the apparatus is especially useful where the container is positioned or mounted on devices such as for example a syringe pump assembly and access to the container by the conventional magnetic stirrer is problematic. Although the apparatus will be described in context of its usage with a container in the form of a syringe mounted on a syringe driver or pump assembly it will be understood that the present invention can be used with any container which may or may not be mounted on a device and that its use with the syringe pump assembly is made specifically for purposes of illustrating the operation of the apparatus and not intended to limit the scope of the present invention.

As shown in the apparatus is implemented to mix the contents of the syringe supported on the syringe pump assembly . The apparatus includes a mixing element disposed within the syringe a rotatably movable member magnetically engageable with the mixing element a motor axially coupled to the movable member and a base member attached to the motor at an opposite end from the movable member . The motor is powered by a voltage source not shown via a switch not shown .

The mixing element of the apparatus is able to move freely from one end of the syringe to the other to effectively agitate the fluid content retained in the syringe . In a preferred embodiment of the present invention the mixing element is ball shaped with a diameter preferably about half the inner diameter of the syringe . The mixing element includes optionally a protective or chemically inert coating selected for example from nickel gold polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE and combinations thereof. As will be understood the present invention facilitates mixing of the contents within the container with little or no interference with the operation of the container and the device to which the container is affixed.

In a further preferred embodiment of the present invention the movable member and the mixing element is composed of a magnetically interactive material. The term magnetically interactive material is intended to refer to any material exhibits attraction to a magnet or one that can be magnetized to generate a persistent magnetic field. The magnetically interactive material can be selected from a ferromagnetic material such as for example iron nickel cobalt rare earth metals and combinations thereof. Preferably the magnetically interactive material is a neodymium based material. It is noted that in the present invention at least one of the mixing element and the movable member is magnetized e.g. permanent magnet for inducing magnetic engagement therebetween.

The syringe with a plunger and a nozzle is affixed in position to the syringe pump assembly via a syringe barrel clamp . The syringe pump assembly includes a support base and a pusher mechanism disposed on a top portion of the support base . The pusher mechanism includes a motor for driving a movable pusher via screw rod . The movable pusher rides on a pair of guide rails . The pusher is affixed to the syringe plunger for actuating infusion or withdrawal of a volume fluid through the syringe nozzle .

The base member disposed at the lower portion of the motor comprises a mounting plate with a pair of fastener holes each for receiving a fastener . The mounting plate is adapted to affix the apparatus to a side portion of the support base via the fasteners and securely position the movable member proximate the syringe . The motor is configured to rotate the movable member at the upper portion thereof. It is noted that the base member is not limited to the form of a mounting plate and that it is contemplated that the base member can encompass any fixed or adjustable device or mechanism such as a clamp a strap a stand a rod clamp suitable for selectively positioning or fastening the movable member at a location proximate an accessible portion of a container.

The movable member includes an armature with a pair of opposed elongate arms extending from a center coupling portion thereof. A flexible joint located at a point along the length of the respective arm allows the arm to be suspended slightly downward. The center coupling portion and the arms driven by the motor are adapted to rotate about a central axis . The distal ends of the arms are composed of a magnetically interactive material and configured to magnetically engage the mixing element disposed within the syringe .

During operation the syringe is positioned at an incline relative to the horizontal plane so that the plunger is elevated. This can be achieved by tilting the syringe pump assembly . With the syringe positioned at an angle the mixing element moves under gravity to a neutral resting position proximate the syringe nozzle . Each of the rotating arms moving in succession over the length of the syringe from the nozzle to the plunger magnetically engages the mixing element and pulls it up through the fluid contents to the opposite elevated end of the syringe with each pass thus agitating the fluid contents in the process. At the end of each pass the mixing element drops back down to its neutral resting position at the lower or non elevated end of the syringe proximate the nozzle at which point it is picked up again for a next pass by the opposite rotating arm . The mixing element completes two cycles of travel for every revolution of the armature .

In reference to the mounting plate of the base member is rigidly attached to the base of the motor via suitable means such as for example welding. The motor includes a drive shaft attached to the center coupling portion of the armature . A cross beam is disposed through the center coupling portion which is attached to the arms at the respective ends thereof via the flexible joints . The flexible joints are composed of a resilient or elastomeric tubular material such as for example polyvinyl chloride PVC polyurethane low density polyethylene rubber latex silicone and the like.

The arms are preferably selected from a cylindrical elongated magnetically interactive material. The length of the arms are selected for sufficient reach to the non elevated lower portion of the container or syringe . The motor of the apparatus is preferably selected from a high speed direct current motor utilizing a high ratio gear arrangement not shown to provide reduced rotation speed and enhanced torque.

Alternatively where the syringe is positioned flat or parallel with the ground the motor can be set to drive the armature in an oscillating manner. In this mode the arm is moved backward and forward over the length of the syringe . Thus the mixing element is magnetically pulled through the syringe to one end and back to the other end repeatedly to ensure continuous mixing. The oscillating operation of the motor can be implemented by reversing the polarity of the voltage applied in a periodic manner. This polarity change can be effected through the use of microswitches not shown in operative engagement with the armature or through the use of a simple timing device not shown that reverses the polarity every selected point in the cycle e.g. half revolution . Although rotation speed is a secondary consideration a potentiometer not shown can be used to adjust the voltage levels to the motor thereby controlling the speed of the armature .

The forgoing discussion discloses and describes merely exemplary embodiments of the present invention. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from such discussion and from the accompanying claims that various changes modifications and variations can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the following claims.

