---

title: Apparatus and method for elimination of polarization-induced fading in fiber-optic sensor system
abstract: The invention is an apparatus and method of eliminating polarization-induced fading in interferometric fiber-optic sensor system having a wavelength-swept laser optical signal. The interferometric return signal from the sensor arms are combined and provided to a multi-optical path detector assembly and ultimately to a data acquisition and processing unit by way of a switch that is time synchronized with the laser scan sweep cycle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09009003&OS=09009003&RS=09009003
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
number: 09009003
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120503
---
This invention described hereunder was made in the performance of work under a NASA contract and is subject to the provisions of Public Law 96 517 35 U.S.C. 202 in which the Contractor has elected not to retain title.

The present invention relates to optical fiber interferometric sensing systems and more particularly to an apparatus and method for the elimination of polarization induced fading in such systems.

Stress strain and fatigue often lead to failure in static and dynamic structural systems. Strain monitoring of such systems can provide an indication of the structural health of the system and predict failures providing time to alter the system to potentially avoid the failure. Implementation of fiber optics strain sensors in structural health monitoring is advantageous over traditional strain gauges due to the compactness of fiber optics sensors the ability to cascade multiple fiber sensors onto a single fiber as opposed to individual cabling for each strain gauge and the inherent immunity of optical systems to electromagnetic interference. This technology has been implemented in both and static structures such as bridges roads and tunnels and dynamic structures such as airframes and sea vessels for real time health monitoring. A particularly useful feature of fiber optic sensors is that they can provide distributed sensing spanning very large distances.

Optical fibers can be used as sensors to measure strain temperature pressure and other quantities by modifying a fiber so that the quantity to be measured modulates the intensity phase polarization wavelength or transit time of light in the fiber. Interferometric fiber optic sensors measure the phase change of light traveling in an optical fiber due to the strains developed in the fiber by an applied pressure. Interferometric fiber optic sensors are extremely sensitive allowing detection of fiber length variations on the order of a few hundred femtometers.

Several schemes are currently deployed to interrogate distributed optical fiber sensors including Wavelength Division Multiplexing WDM Optical Time Domain Reflectometry OTDR and Optical Frequency Domain Reflectometry OFDR .

WDM multiplexes a number of optical interrogation signals onto a single optical fiber by using different wavelengths colors of laser light. Each optical sensor is given a dedicated operating wavelength and the wavelengths of the gratings are varied so as to be individually distinguished each reflects a different wavelength of light from a broad band or swept wavelength laser source . A demultiplexer at the receiver splits the reflected signals apart for analysis. WDM achieves high spatial resolution but the number of possible sensors able to be deployed is limiting since the wavelength bandwidth is finite and there is greater complexity in fiber manufacture.

OTDR is based on the premise of sending a pulse of laser light through the fiber and tracking the time at which the reflected signals are detected in order to distinguish the spatial location of each sensor. OTDR is effective for sensing over long distances but suffers from limited spatial resolution.

Some schemes combine OTDR and WDM to increase the number of addressable sensors but retain similar limitations.

With OFDR interrogation a tunable laser wavelength scans a distributed optical system under test. The resulting internal reflections from the optical system interfere with the reflection from a reference reflector producing a composite modulation of the interferometric signal where the beat frequencies of the modulation are directly related to the position of the internal reflections. Taking the Fourier transform of the interferometric signal it is possible to determine the magnitude and position of the internal reflections. OFDR has shown great promise to interrogate hundreds and even thousands of distributed optical fiber sensors.

These fiber optics strain sensors are typically composed of numerous optical fibers and numerous Fiber Bragg gratings FBGs interposed along the length of each fiber. Each Bragg grating creates a periodic variation of the optical refractive index in the core of the optical fibers and is capable of detecting strain individually through change in its resonant wavelength i.e. the wavelength at which each grating has its maximum reflectance .

With OFDR all the FBGs are written at the same central wavelength and their positions along the fiber are detected by measuring the beat frequency of any individual grating s reflection with the reflection from a reference arm of the interferometer having a known length. As the laser wavelength and therefore frequency is scanned a small but measurable difference in the time for light to travel from the reference arm and from each grating is observed causing variation in the interference pattern between the signal from the reference arm and the sensor arm the frequency components of which are linearly related to the distance along the fiber of the grating reflector. This wavelength or frequency domain interference pattern is presented as an interferogram a graph of the variation of the output signal in the wavelength domain which encodes all beat frequencies of the sensor . A Fast Fourier Transform FFT signal processing method is applied to convert the wavelength frequency domain to the spatial time domain so that the beating frequency for each FBG encoded within the interferogram can be separated. The Fourier transform of the reflected interferogram gives the signal reflectance as a function of time which in this case is equivalent to distance along the fiber. Thus the reflectivity of each grating can be measured. To transform the wavelength and strain information of a particular sensor from the spatial domain back to the wavelength domain a windowing function is first taken to lock in the desired beating frequency in spatial domain. Then an inverse Fourier Transform is taken to identify the resonant wavelength of the particular sensor. Since strain information is linearly proportional to the wavelength shift relative to the initial resonant wavelength of the fiber grating the strain information can be correlated from the wavelength shift information.

Other techniques to decode a particular sensor from the multitude of beat frequency information have been developed. However regardless of the techniques used to determine the beat frequency there is an inherent limitation of fiber interferometer sensing technology. Because an interferometric fiber optic sensor combines the light beams from two optical paths and causes them to interfere to produce an interference pattern that is proportional to the property being sensed the interference between the light beams from the two paths can fade due to polarization drifts. If the states of polarizations of the two interfering beams from the two arms of the interferometer are co directional the interference is at a maximum and the sensitivity of the sensor is greatest. However if the states of polarizations of the beams from the two arms are orthogonal to each other the light from the two arms do not interfere and the sensitivity of the sensor is zero. It is well known that the single mode fiber SMF used in fiber sensors is a highly bi refringent optical waveguide and that physical perturbation such as induced strain temperature or rotation between the arms of the interferometer can cause changes in the polarization of the waveguide. As a result random fluctuations in the state of polarization SOP of the interfering beams guided in the nominally circular fiber core can lead to fading of the interference signal. This phenomenon is known commonly as polarization induced fading PIF .

An inherent solution to eliminate PIF is replacing the highly bi refringent single mode fiber with polarization maintaining fiber PMF . A PMF does not exhibit any polarization related intensity change due to physical perturbation and so the effect of PIF can be eliminated by utilizing PMFs throughout the fiber network. Unfortunately this approach is not practical because PMFs are significantly more expensive than the SMF based fiber networks and so fiber strain sensors based on PMF has not been realized nor commercialized. Other techniques have been proposed to overcome the effect of polarization induced signal fading ranging from the use of polarization controllers in the arms of the fiber interferometer to polarization input controllers to polarization diversity detection schemes based on output polarization state selection. In the case of polarization controllers active controllers such as those based on Faraday rotators or rotatable fiber wave plates can be inserted into one or both of the fiber arms. While this approach is well suited for use in laboratory sensor systems it is not a practical solution for a deployable sensor and in any event is incompatible with a FBG based system as the gratings already act as reflectors. With respect to changing the source input polarization control such systems involve additional components such as polarization state controllers to continuously alter the source polarization and may not be a practical solution for systems having thousands of sensors needed to match every single sensors polarization based on feedback from an output detector

In the case of polarization diversity detection fading can be overcome by appropriately selecting a polarization mode at the output of the interferometer. Most polarization diversity detection schemes include three photo detectors which are 60 degrees apart from one another in terms of their angle of polarization rotation. The advantage of this approach is to ensure that a completely faded signal caused by PIF will not occur. However because PIF causes each fiber sensor in a multisensory network to experience randomly different degrees of polarization using polarization diversity detection to selectively choose the best output of the network does not work. Consequently a more effective apparatus and method for eliminating polarization induced fading from all sections of the fiber sensor is needed.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide an apparatus and method capable of eliminating polarization inducted fading from fiber optic interferometric sensing systems.

It is another object of the present invention to provide an apparatus and method capable of eliminating polarization inducted fading requiring only a single analog to digital A D channel for data collection.

It is yet another object of the present invention to provide a system and method that can be retrofitted into existing interferometric sensing systems with minimal disruption.

According to the present invention the above described and other objects are accomplished by an optical fiber interferometric sensing system having a wavelength swept laser light source providing an optical signal to both a reference arm and a sensing arm having a series of Bragg gratings disposed along its length. The return signals from each arm are combined and provided to a multi optical path detector assembly and ultimately to a single channel of a data acquisition and processing unit by way of a switch that is time synchronized with the laser scan sweep cycle. In a preferred embodiment each of three optical paths in the detector assembly is provided with a polarizing element and a photodetector and receives the combined signal from the sensing and reference arms which encodes in the interference pattern information regarding the beat frequency of the Bragg gratings encoded in the wavelength domain. On each successive laser sweep cycle the switch advances to the next photodetector and passes the output to a signal processor which converts the wavelength domain signal to the spatial domain and stores the information in a memory buffer. The buffered spatial domain signal from each of the three photodetectors are averaged to generate polarization induced signal fading compensated signal data from which the strain data for a particular Bragg grating on the sensing arm can be obtained by inverse Fourier Transform since there is no loss of overall information in the system. On each subsequent laser sweep cycle the oldest buffered signal data is discarded to make room for newly acquired data in a first in first out buffering scheme.

For the purposes of promoting an understanding of the principles of the invention reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated in the drawings and described below. The embodiments disclosed are not intended to be exhaustive or limit the invention to the precise form disclosed in the following detailed description. Rather the embodiments are chosen and described so that others skilled in the art may utilize its teachings. It will be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended. The invention includes any alterations and modifications in the illustrated device the methods of operation and further applications of the principles of the invention which would normally occur to one skilled in the art to which the invention relates. The present invention is an apparatus and method for eliminating polarization induced fading in an interferometric sensor system.

With specific reference to the embodiment having two optical detectors i.e. a two channel system as shown in the detector assembly includes a broadband beam splitter having a wavelength range cooperatively selected for use with the swept source laser . Beam splitter may preferably be a polarizing beam that separates the S and P polarization components of the incoming signal from the coupler and distributes the component signals one each to two optical detectors . Alternatively a non polarizing beam splitter may be used in conjunction with separate polarizing elements not shown as described and depicted in a subsequent embodiment below. The optical detectors are high speed photo detectors that translate the output signal from optical to electronic and may preferably be common optical detector such as JDSU ETX 100Rxx InGaAs photodetector series with 1.5 GHz bandwidth and responsivity of 0.75 A W. The optical detectors are connected to the data acquisition and processing unit on a single input channel by way of an analog switch . Analog switch is clock synchronized with the scan cycle of swept laser so as to sequentially switch between the output of the two detectors on successive scan cycles as will be described below. The data acquisition and processing unit preferably combines a conventional data acquisition system DAS or DAQ capable of converting the analog electrical waveforms into digital values for processing and a controller for processing the result. The components of the data acquisition system may include signal conditioning circuitry to filter or amplify the sensor signals and an analog to digital A D converter for converting conditioned sensor signals to digital values. The controller may comprise any general purpose computer or programmable microcontroller such as having a processor memory and at least one input channel coupled to the A D converter. In certain embodiments one or more controller or field programmable gated array FPGA may be implemented to perform certain functions such as FFT iFFT calculations.

With reference to a three channel embodiment of the optical fiber interferometric sensing system according to the present invention is depicted. The three channel embodiment is also provided with a light source reference arm a sensing arm a detector assembly and a data acquisition unit as with the two channel system of . However the system of is provided with a three channel detector system in which the polarizing beam splitter is replaced with a 1 3 non polarizing broadband optical coupler and a series of polarizers one each in combination with optical detectors . In a preferred embodiment the optical axes of the three polarizers are oriented at 60 relative to one another. The optical detectors are again connected to the data acquisition unit on a single input channel by way of an analog switch . Here analog switch is clock synchronized with the scan cycle of swept laser so as to sequentially cycle between the output of the three detectors on successive scan cycles as will also be described below. The data acquisition unit is again preferably a general purpose computer or programmable microcontroller as described above.

With reference to the present approach to mitigating polarization induced fading PIF in multiple cascaded fiber sensors using diversity detection by equally combining all signals in the Fourier frequency or wavelength domain is herein described in the context of the three channel optical fiber interferometric sensing system of . On initialization of the sensing system at step the clock frequency of the swept laser is synchronized with the analog switch and the switch is set to the first analog data channel to pass the electrical output of optical detector to the data acquisition unit . At step the swept laser completes a first wavelength swept cycle of the optical sensing network and at step the optical sensing network creates a wavelength domain interference pattern between the reference arm and the sensing arm in which the x axis represents the wavelength domain and the y axis represents the amplitude of the beating interference. The wavelength domain interference pattern contains information regarding the beat frequency of all gratings on the sensing arm . The coupler distributes the signal equally to all polarizers without regard to polarimetry of the signal. At step after passing through the polarizers the amplitude of the interference pattern of the optical signal is sensed by the photodiodes of the optical detectors and converted to an electrical signal. The electrical signal from the first optical detector is passed to the data acquisition unit which converts the analog signal to digital and converts the signal from the wavelength domain to the spatial domain using a Fourier Transform where the x axis now represents the relative distance along the interfering arms and y axis represents the amplitude signal strength of the reflection from each Bragg grating. At step the data acquisition system stores the Fourier signal in a first buffer position in memory as depicted in . The electronic signals from the second and third optical detectors are discarded.

At step the swept laser begins a second sweep cycle of the optical network and the analog switch is set at step to the second analog data channel in synchronization with a signal indicative of the laser clock cycle. At step the laser completes the second wavelength swept cycle and the wavelength domain interference pattern from the optical sensing network is again distributed to all three polarizers by coupler without regard to signal polarimetry. At step after passing through the polarizers the amplitude of the interference pattern of the optical signal is sensed by the photodiodes of the optical detectors and converted to an electrical signal. The electrical signal from the second optical detector is passed to the data acquisition via switch and the signals from the first and third photodiodes are discarded. At step the data acquisition system converts the analog signal to a digital signal and converts the digital signal from the wavelength domain to the spatial domain using a Fourier Transform. At step the data acquisition system stores the Fourier signal in a second buffer position in memory as depicted in .

At step the swept laser begins a third sweep cycle and the analog switch is set at step to the third analog data channel in synchronization with a signal indicative of the laser clock cycle. At step the laser completes the second wavelength swept cycle and the wavelength domain interference pattern from the optical sensing network is again distributed to all three polarizers by coupler without regard to signal polarimetry. At step after passing through the polarizers the amplitude of the interference pattern of the optical signal is sensed by the photodiodes of the optical detectors and converted to an electrical signal. The electrical signal from the third optical detector is passed to the data acquisition unit via switch and the signals from the first and second photodiodes are discarded. At step the data acquisition system converts the analog signal to digital and converts the digital signal from the wavelength domain to the spatial domain using a Fourier Transform. At step the data acquisition unit stores the Fourier signal in a third buffer position in memory as depicted in .

At step the data acquisition system averages the first second and third buffered signals in the Fourier Domain and at step outputs the averaged signal as polarization compensated signal in the Fourier Domain. By averaging all channels in the spatial domain all of the spatial relation for all channels of the diversity detectors can be retained thereby compensating for signal loss at each channel stemming from PIF related losses. At step the strain data for a particular Bragg grating on the sensing arm can be obtained from the polarization compensated signal through analysis by an inverse Fourier Transform related technique since there is no loss of overall information in the system. At step the analog switch is again set to the first analog data channel in synchronization with the laser clock cycle and the wavelength swept cycle is repeated as at step . As seen in the Fourier signal stored in the first buffer position at step is discarded and replaced by the newly received Fourier signal from channel optical detector at which point the data acquisition system generates a new average of the buffered Fourier Domain signals and outputs it as a new polarization compensated output. The cyclic synchronized network interrogation repeats for the duration of the testing monitoring period with the switch continuously cycling through detector positions in a round robin fashion. Similarly on each new interrogation the oldest buffered signal is discarded in favor of the newly acquired signal in a first in first out FIFO buffering process.

With reference to the interferogram generated by the optical sensing network over a single wavelength swept cycle of the laser is depicted in . In the output from the first photodetector is depicted in the spatial domain. Observe that portions of the signal have significantly reduced signal amplitude due at least in part to fading as a result of a polarization mismatch between the sensing and reference signals. and depict the digitized output from the second the third photodiodes in the spatial domain for which the plane of polarization of the respective polarizing elements have been rotated 60 and 120 degrees respectively. Here again portions of the signal are degraded by polarization induced fading. however depicts the combined averaged of the signals from the three channels in which polarization induced fading is greatly minimized or eliminated. Note that while a three channel system is depicted in a greater or lesser number of channels may be utilized in practice such as for example a four channel system or the two channel system described above the output of which is depicted in .

In an alternate embodiment of the invention. A three channel diversity detector is considered in which the detector comprises only a single optical path and a single optical detector. Also eliminated is the analog switch although the signal processing steps remain unchanged. In this embodiment the polarizing element before the optical detector is provided with a variable axes of polarization such as for example by rotating a polarizing filter. The rate of rotation of the filter is synchronized with the clock frequency of the swept laser such that the axes of rotation preferably turns in this three channel embodiment 60 degrees with each laser interrogation cycle. On each scan cycle the optical sensing network creates a wavelength domain interference pattern between the reference arm and the sensing arm in which the x axis represents the wavelength domain and the y axis represents the amplitude of the beating interference. The amplitude of the interference pattern of the optical signal is sensed by the photodiode of the optical detector and converted to an electrical signal which is passed directly to the data acquisition unit which converts the analog signal to digital and converts the signal from the wavelength domain to the spatial domain using a Fourier Transform where where the x axis now represents the relative distance along the interfering arms and y axis represents the amplitude signal strength of the reflection from each Bragg grating. The data acquisition unit stores the Fourier signals sequentially in a buffer according to the FIFO scheme previously described and averages the buffered signals after each successive scan to produce PIF compensated data.

Having now fully set forth the preferred embodiment and certain modifications of the concept underlying the present invention various other embodiments as well as certain variations and modifications of the embodiments herein shown and described will obviously occur to those skilled in the art upon becoming familiar with said underlying concept. It is to be understood therefore that the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically set forth in the appended claims.

