---

title: Method and design of an RF thru-via interconnect
abstract: In summary, a vertical metalized transition in the form of a via goes from the back side of a high thermal conductivity substrate and through any semiconductor layers thereon to a patterned metalized strip, with the substrate having a patterned metalized layer on the back side that is provided with a keep away zone dimensioned to provide impedance matching for RF energy coupled through the substrate to the semiconductor device while at the same time permitting the heat generated by the semiconductor device to flow through the high thermal conductivity substrate, through the back side of the substrate and to a beat sink.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09024326&OS=09024326&RS=09024326
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 09024326
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120718
---
This Application claims rights under 35 USC 119 e from U.S. application Ser. No. 61 508 799 filed Jul. 18 2011 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The invention was made with United States Government assistance under contract no. W15P7T 07 C P437 awarded by the US Army. The United States Government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to semiconductor connections and more specifically to a vertical via through a silicon carbide substrate for coupling RF energy through the silicon carbide substrate and a gallium nitride layer to a contact pad on the gallium nitride to take advantage of the high thermal conductivity heat dissipating capability of silicon carbide for high power amplifiers without having to use wire bond connections for the RF energy.

In the past microwave devices such as Monolithic Microwave Integrated Circuits MMICs have been utilized in a wide variety of RF power amplifier applications and more specifically in the military for towed or expendable jammers that use a large number of wideband high power solid state amplifying devices. Such amplifiers and their applications are discussed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 924 097 and 8 076 975 issued to Robert Actis et al. assigned to the assigned hereof and incorporated by reference. In these devices multiple transistors are placed on a substrate and in general each generate 2 watts of RF power with an associated 2 watts of DC power that must be dissipated. The problem when large numbers of high power transistors are used in amplifiers is the ability of the substrate to dissipate the heat that is generated generally at the gate electrodes of the high power transistors.

It has been found that the silicon carbide host substrate of GaN transistors with its high thermal conductivity provides an excellent way of transferring the heat away from the vicinity of the gate electrode to a heat sink whereby the approximate 2 watts of waste heat that is generated in the operation of the power transistor is effectively dissipated.

High power gallium nitride transistors commonly have their gallium nitride layer on top of a silicon carbide substrate the bottom of which is metalized and in contact with a heat sink that provides an excellent thermal ground plane structure for an array of high power MMIC RF amplifiers.

The problem with such amplifiers is the fact that the RF energy is applied to or coupled out of the transistor utilizing wire bonds. However wire bonding techniques are non optimal due to discontinuities at the points of the attachment of the wire bond where power is lost and reliability is sacrificed. Aside from the awkwardness of having to provide a number of wire bonds the associated parasitics of multiple wire bonds limits the usable bandwidth performance of the wideband amplifying MMICs.

Thus while silicon carbide as a substrate has excellent thermal conductivity to be able to dissipate the heat in the vicinity of the gate structure for high power transistors the use of wire bonds to contact the gallium nitride transistors make the use of these wire bonded high power amplifiers less desirable from an optimal power bandwidth performance perspective.

It will be noted that in these types of devices the power level for each individual 400 micron device with a power density of 5 watts per millimeter results in the generation of 2 to 3 watts of RF power. When 40 90 of these individual devices are placed in a circuit the amount of heat that must be dissipated is for instance 90 times that associated with a single one of these devices. While the heat associated with the above devices is associated with RF power one nonetheless has to dissipate DC currents and for a 50 efficient device one needs for instance to dissipate 2 watts of waste heat for every 2 watts of RF output power.

In order to be able to use the GaN on silicon carbide semiconductor technology it has been suggested to utilize a flip chip die attach approach which is a very cost effective technique for connecting to integrated circuits.

However when amplifiers in the form of MMICs are to be connected utilizing solder balls and flip chip attachment techniques there is a problem because when the chip is flipped upside down such that the silicon carbide base now has a top surface open to the air all of the heat dissipated through the silicon carbide has nowhere to go as there is no heat sink available at this top surface of the silicon carbide. It is noted that power flip chip components may have additional solder pads or metal bumps in the vicinity of the heat generating components e.g. the source contacts of a field effect transistor to dissipate heat. However this complicates the design of the module base limits the circuit architecture that can be applied to the modular integrated circuit and may compromise then al management.

In summary while flip chip attachment of RF semiconductor components is often desired for the purpose of eliminating wire bonds and the accompanying ill defined parasitics it is difficult to draw heat out of the chip in an efficient manner due to the lack of a heat sink on top of the bare silicon carbide substrate.

Rather than using a flip chip RF connection technique for inputting and extracting RF energy from an RF amplifier and rather than utilizing wire bonds in the subject technique a via is formed through the silicon carbide substrate which has its walls metalized. These metalized walls form a transmission line which contacts a microstrip or other metallization on the top of the gallium nitride layer with the metalized via offering a vertical transition through the semiconductor chip that serves as a 50 ohm port for the amplifier. The metalized walls of the via thus provides a backside connection that allows RF signals to connect through the back of the semiconductor chip while at the same time permitting a heat sink to abut the backside of the chip for extracting heat.

As part of the vertical transition the backside of the silicon carbide is metalized with the exception of a patterned keep away zone around the via. The center conductor of a coaxial transmission line in the form of a pin is inserted into the metalized via and in one embodiment is cemented into place utilizing a conductive epoxy. The ground braid or outer conductor of the coax end is connected to the metallization surrounding the via with the coax being provided in one embodiment by a rectilinear coax transmission line manufactured by Nuvotronics LLC of Radford Va.

It has been found by proper dimensioning of the via walls and the positioning of the pin relative to the surrounding metallization that the return loss at the connection is minimized in effect providing a 50 ohm connection to the RF amplifier. In one embodiment in order to provide for the 50 ohm impedance the metalized walls of the via are spaced 100 microns on three sides from the surrounding metallization on the back of the silicon carbide to provide a safe area with the remaining side spaced at 70 microns. The dimension of the internal walls of the via are 100 microns on a side. The pin itself is 100 microns 100 microns.

it has been found that the subject via provides a less than 20 dB return loss across a wide bandwidth from 2 to 18 gigahertz to provide excellent impedance matching.

In order to control the impedance of the vertical transition transmission line the majority of the impedance matching is done by the patterning of the keep away area so that the input impedance looks like 50 ohms.

In short by providing a vertical metalized via transition from the base of the silicon carbide through the gallium nitride one provides a good impedance match between a 50 ohm transmission line feeding the bottom of the device and the RF amplifier formed in the gallium nitride with the 50 ohm impedance existing over a wide bandwidth. The net result is that one can efficiently couple RF energy into and out of an RF power amplifier by utilizing a vertical transition via with the appropriate impedance matching thus to enable not only RF connections to the RF amplifier but also to take advantage of the thermal conductivity of silicon carbide which contacts a heat sink on its back side to dissipate the heat generated by the transistors.

While the subject invention has been described in terms of silicon carbide metalized vertical transition vias are useful in any type of high thermal conductivity substrate material to couple impedance matched transmission lines to an RF circuit while at the same time being able to extract heat.

Referring now to in a prior art configuration involving a die having a GaN layer on top of a silicon carbide substrate what is shown is a transistor that is patterned onto a gallium nitride layer that is deposited on a silicon carbide substrate which is provided with a metallization layer under which is a heat sink is located.

On top of gallium nitride layer is a gate electrode which is coupled off die by a wire bond here generally illustrated by reference character .

What will be appreciated that a large majority of the heat from the transistor is generated at gate and as illustrated radiates or dissipates through the silicon carbide substrate as illustrated by arrows . This heat dissipates outwardly from the gate area through the metallization area to heat sink which effectively removes or dissipates the heat generated by RF amplifier circuit.

As has been mentioned before wire bonding is a non optimal method of contacting to the elements of the transistor due to lack of reliability and power loss associated with the variable parasitics that limit the bandwidth performance.

Referring to in order to effectively couple RF energy into and out of the transistor fabricated with the GaN SiC architecture a gate is patterned onto gallium nitrite layer that has been previously deposited on silicon carbide substrate . As will be appreciated the gate is soldered to a printed circuit board having a conductive stripe thereon utilizing a solder ball which is part of the flip chip technology in which solder balls are patterned onto various areas before the chip is turned over. Thereafter the solder is melted when the GaN SiC die is in place.

Here as can be seen at heat efficiently flows through the silicon carbide. However the dissipated heat ends up at a free air top surface of the silicon carbide substrate which carries no heat sink. Thus the removal of heat from the RF amplifier stymied at the free air surface with the die heating up in the absence of a heat sink.

Referring to the outline of a typical high power RF amplifier includes a gate structure with associated fingers surrounding a drain with grounded source electrodes to either side of the gate drain structure. If an RF signal as indicated by is applied to a vertically transitioning metalized via then a microstrip or patterned conductor is utilized to convey the energy from the center pin of a coax transmission line in this case to gate structure with the vertically transitioning wall metalized via running from the bottom of the silicon carbide substrate up through an etched hole in the gallium nitride layer where it contacts conductor in order to couple RF signals as illustrated at to gate .

It will be appreciated that sources may be grounded by a metalized via shown in dotted outline at to the underside of the bottom metalized silicon carbide substrate to form a dc connection to the ground plane of the substrate.

It is the purpose of the subject invention to provide an impedance match between a coaxial transmission line normally a 50 ohm coax to the input and output from the power RF amplifier in such a way as to reduce parasitic problems while at the same time providing an excellent impedance match between the coaxial transmission line and the RF power transistor.

Referring now to a via is provided with metalized walls into which is inserted a coax pin which is bonded to the interior of wall in one embodiment with conductive epoxy.

In one embodiment the pin is rectilinear in configuration and extends as the center conductor of a 50 ohm coax transmission line also having a rectilinear configuration which is fed by RF signal as described above.

Here the GaN layer is deposited onto a silicon carbide substrate with a metallization layer patterned onto the bottom of the silicon carbide substrate. However the patterning of the metallization layer is done in such a way that a keep away zone is provided spaced from the bottom edge of via the purpose of which is to provide 50 ohm impedance.

Here it can be seen that via wall extends out to the top surface of silicon carbide substrate whereupon a hole is etched into the gallium nitrate layer . Thereafter the hole is metalized as illustrated at such that there is an electrical conductivity from the metalized lower edge of via up through the silicon carbide substrate and through the gallium nitride layer to a position on top of the silicon carbide layer. The metallization of the etched hole in the GaN layer may be performed concurrently with the patterned metallization on the bottom of the silicon carbide substrate . The result is that the microstrip contacts with the top portion of the metalized via through the gallium nitride layer.

As seen the microstrip is connected to gate electrode whereby connecting gate electrode is coupled to coaxial cable through a 50 ohm port established by the dimensions of the metalized via and the keep away region in the bottom metalized layer as well calculated spacings that are maintained between metalized via and the periphery of keep away region .

Referring to in more detail the gallium nitride layer on top of the silicon carbide layer is shown provided with the aforementioned bottom metallization layer Here the insertion of pin into the metalized vertically transitioning via is as shown by dotted outline . As can be seen pin is insertable into via whereas the top surface of coax can be bonded to metallization layer to complete the connection of the coaxial table to the RF power transistor.

Referring now to in one embodiment of the subject invention rectilinear coax is shown having a center conductor that extends outwardly of the proximal end of the coax where it is inserted into vertically transitioning via . The top portion of via is coupled to circuits on top of the GaN layer by metalizing a via . Through the gallium arsenide layer whereupon electrical connection is made between the center pin of the coax and a microstrip that runs to Port here illustrated at .

As mentioned before it is the purpose of the vertically transitioning via to present a 50 ohm impedance at the bottom of the silicon carbide layer. In order to do so as illustrated in which views via from the bottom via has side walls spaced at 100 microns from the periphery of the keep away region with a via side wall spaced from periphery by 70 microns in one embodiment. This spacing assures a 50 ohm port having return losses less than minus 18 dB across the entire operational bandwidth of namely from 2 gigahertz to 18 gigahertz.

Referring to the vertically extending via has sidewalls 120 microns in width as illustrated at . Three of the sidewalls are spaced at 100 microns from periphery of keep away zone in bottom metallization layer with the 100 micron distances of being shown in . The distance of sidewall to periphery is as illustrated in via 70 microns.

With the above configuration and referring now to it can be seen that the measured return loss from for instance 2 gigahertz through 18 gigahertz is less than minus 18 dB meaning that the VSWR at this port is approximately less than 1 3 to 1 to establish a 50 ohm impedance.

Referring to when a die is provided with numbers of RF amplifying transistors forming a large periphery amplifier MMIC and when the only RF connection to this MMIC is through wire bonds then output power bandwidth performance is degraded from the parasitic due to wire bonds. However by replacing the wire bonds with RF connections utilizing a vertical transitioning metalized via through the silicon carbide substrate one can achieve a proper impedance RF connection with minimal connection parasitic while at the same time effectuating efficient heat removal from the die.

More particularly die is provided with groups A F of amplifiers. While each group has tight amplifiers only four are called out for each group. Thus each group has at least the four amplifiers as described in U.S. Pat. No. 8 076 975 assigned to the assignee hereof and incorporated by reference. For instance Group A has amplifiers and Group B has amplifiers . Groups C D F and F are similarly constructed with connections to these amplifiers shown at . In one embodiment this die holds 64 amplifying devices and 2 connections to the die facilitated by the subject vertical transitioning metalized vias. Dissipating the heat from 6 amplifying devices is a daunting task but is accomplished with the subject technology which at the same time provides an ideal impedance connection to the amplifiers without using wire bonds.

While the present invention has been described in connection with the preferred embodiments of the various figures it is to be understood that other similar embodiments may be used or modifications or additions may be made to the described embodiment for performing the same function of the present invention without deviating therefrom. Therefore the present invention should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the recitation of the appended claims.

