---

title: Association biasing for a heterogeneous network (HetNet)
abstract: A method for association biasing at a mobile device in a heterogeneous network (HetNet) is disclosed. The method can include the mobile device receiving coordination set information from a macro node in the HetNet. The coordination set information can include at least one low power node (LPN) identifier of at least one LPN. The mobile device can receive a request from the macro node to apply a specified reference signal (RS) biasing. The mobile device can apply the specified RS biasing to an LPN RS measurement derived from a LPN RS received from an LPN having an LPN identifier in the received coordination set information. The mobile device can associate the mobile device with the LPN when the LPN RS measurement with the specified RS biasing exceeds an association threshold.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09271249&OS=09271249&RS=09271249
owner: INTEL CORPORATION
number: 09271249
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120803
---
Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a transmission station and a wireless mobile device. Some wireless devices communicate using orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM combined with a desired digital modulation scheme via a physical layer. Standards and protocols that use OFDM include the third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard e.g. 802.16e 802.16m which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi.

In 3GPP radio access network RAN LTE systems the transmission station can be a combination of Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and Radio Network Controllers RNCs which communicates with the wireless mobile device known as a user equipment UE . A downlink DL transmission can be a communication from the transmission station or eNodeB to the wireless mobile device or UE and an uplink UL transmission can be a communication from the wireless mobile device to the transmission station.

In homogeneous networks the transmission station also called macro nodes can provide basic wireless coverage to mobile devices in a cell. Heterogeneous networks HetNets are used to handle the increased traffic loads on the macro nodes due to increased usage and functionality of mobile devices. HetNets can include a layer of planned high power macro nodes or macro eNBs overlaid with layers of lower power nodes micro eNBs pico eNBs femto eNBs or home eNBs HeNBs that can be deployed in a less well planned or even entirely uncoordinated manner within the coverage area of the macro nodes. The macro nodes can be used for basic coverage and the low power nodes can be used to fill coverage holes to improve capacity in hot zones or at the boundaries between the macro nodes coverage areas and improve indoor coverage where building structures impede signal transmission. Inter cell interference coordination ICIC or enhanced ICIC eICIC may be used for resource coordination to reduce interference between the transmission stations or nodes such as macro nodes and low power nodes. In ICIC an interfering node or an aggressor node may give up use of some resources in order to enable control and data transmissions between a victim node or victim mobile device.

The transmission stations such as the macro nodes and or lower power nodes LPN can also be grouped together with other transmission stations in a Coordinated MultiPoint CoMP system where transmission stations from multiple cells can transmit signals to the mobile device and receive signals from the mobile device.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

A heterogeneous network HetNet can include a macro node and at least one low power node LPN . The macro node can be grouped with the at least one LPN in a coordination set. The macro node can provide inter cell interference coordination ICIC enhanced ICIC eICIC or coordinated multi point CoMP transmission for the LPNs or other macro nodes in the coordination set. The macro node may not provide ICIC eICIC or CoMP for the LPNs or other macro nodes outside the coordination set. A mobile device in communication with the macro node or within a coverage area of the macro node can receive coordination set information from the macro node. The coordination set information can include identifiers of LPNs in the coordination set including at least one LPN identifier of the at least one LPN.

The macro node can request that mobile devices in communication with the macro node apply a specified reference signal RS biasing. The macro node may request the application of the specified RS biasing when the macro node is experiencing a heavy traffic load in an attempt to offload traffic to the LPNs within the HetNet. The mobile device may receive reference signals such cell specific reference signals CRS or channel state information reference signals CSI RS from LPN located nearby the mobile device. The mobile device can measure a power or quality of a macro node s RS and can measure a power or quality of LPNs RS. A RS measurement can include a reference signal received power RSRP a reference signal received quality RSRQ or a combination of RSRP and RSRQ. The mobile device can compare the macro node s RS measurements with the LPNs RS measurements. The mobile device may associate with the macro node or the LPN with a higher power quality RS measurement. The mobile device can apply the specified RS biasing or RS power offset or RS quality offset to either effectively lower the macro node s RS measurements or effectively raise the LPN s RS measurements so that some LPNs with a lower power or lesser quality measurement prior to the biasing can appear to have a higher power or better quality measurement than the macro node after the biasing. With the application of specified RS biasing some mobile devices may be handed over or offloaded from the macro node to the LPNs that appeared to have a higher power or better quality measurement than the macro node. As a result of the specified RS biasing the LPN s range expands and more mobile devices re associate with LPN instead of maintaining the association with the macro node. Also as a result of the specified RS biasing the macro node can reduce the mobile devices in direct communication with the macro node and offload mobile devices to the LPNs. The mobile device may apply the specified RS biasing to an LPN RS measurement when an LPN identifier representing the LPN is within the received coordination set information. The mobile device can associate with the LPN when the LPN RS measurement with the specified RS biasing exceeds an association threshold. ICIC eICIC or CoMP may be applied to the nodes within the coordination set to manage the low power conditions of the LPN enhance the signal of the LPN and or reduce the interference from other nodes and devices. The mobile device may ignore the specified RS biasing to an LPN RS measurement when an LPN identifier for the LPN is not within the received coordination set information. If the LPN in not with the same coordination set as the macro node ICIC eICIC or CoMP may be less effective to manage the low power conditions of the LPN enhance the signal of the LPN and or reduce interference from other nodes and devices.

The following provides additional details of the examples. illustrates a heterogeneous network HetNet with a first high power macro node A or macro eNB with a first backhaul communication link A with a first lower power node A micro eNBs pico eNBs femto eNBs home eNBs HeNBs remote radio head RRH or relay node . The HetNet can include a second high power macro node B or macro eNB with a second backhaul communication link B with a second lower power node B micro eNBs pico eNBs femto eNBs home eNBs HeNBs remote radio head RRH or relay node . The backhaul communication link can be a wired wireless or optical fiber connection. The backhaul communication link may use X2 signaling. The backhaul communication link can be used to apply interference mitigation or signal coordination between the macro node and the LPNs in a coordination set. HetNets can be used to optimize performance particularly for unequal user or traffic distribution and improve spectral efficiency per unit area of a cell. HetNets can also achieve significantly improved overall capacity and cell edge performance. Enhanced inter cell interference coordination eICIC can be used to coordinate resources between the macro node and the low power node LPN in the HetNet and reduce interference. Generally eICIC can allow interfering nodes to coordinate on transmission powers and or spatial beams with each other in order to enable control and data transmissions to their corresponding mobile devices. Enhanced biasing for HetNet systems can be used with interference mitigation techniques such as CoMP or eICIC.

The HetNet and homogeneous network can include regular planned placement of macro nodes A and B that can typically transmit at high power level for example approximately 5 watts W to 40 W to cover the macro cell A and B. The HetNet can be overlaid with low power nodes LPNs A and B which may transmit at substantially lower power levels such as approximately 100 milliwatts mW to 2 W. In an example an available transmission power of the macro node may be at least ten times an available transmission power of the low power node. A LPN can be used in hot spots or hot zones referring to areas with a high wireless traffic load or high volume of actively transmitting wireless devices. A LPN can be used in a microcell a picocell a femtocell and or home network. The microcell can be located in a mall a hotel or a transportation hub. The picocell can be located in small to medium size structures such as offices shopping malls train stations stock exchanges or in aircraft. The femtocell can be located in small structures such as a home or a small business.

In an example a microcell can have a range less than two kilometers km and a picocell can have a range within 200 meters m . In another example a femtocell can support up to 16 active mobile devices and can have a range within 50 m. In an example a LPN may have a power less than 24 decibels relative to 1 milliwatt dBm for 1 antenna less than 21 dBm for 2 antennas and less than 18 dBm for 4 antennas. The decibel dB is a logarithmic unit that indicates the ratio of a physical quantity usually power or intensity relative to a specified or implied reference level. A ratio in decibels is ten times the logarithm to base 10 of the ratio of two power quantities. The power relative to 1 milliwatt mW can be represented by dBm dB mW . In another example a HeNB may have a power less than 20 dBm for 1 antenna less than 17 dBm for 2 antennas and less than 14 dBm for 4 antennas. The HeNB can perform many of the functions of the eNodeB but the HeNB can be optimized or designed for use in a home or an office. A RRH may be used in a centralized cooperative or cloud radio access network C RAN where the transmission station or eNodeB functionality can be subdivided between a base band unit BBU processing pool and a remote radio unit RRU or a remote radio head RRH with optical fiber connecting the BBU to the RRU. A relay node may be used to decode and forward or repeat the signaling of a macro node.

A LPN A or B can have a standard cell range A or B or inner cell range or a cell range expansion A or B or cell range extension edge cell range or cell edge range . Due to the closer proximity of the mobile device to the LPN the mobile device within the standard cell range of the LPN may experience less interference from the macro node and other sources than a mobile device within the cell range extension but outside the standard cell range. The standard cell coverage or range or center cell range can represent an area in space a geographic area near the transmitting station where the transmission power and signal can be strong and a co channel interference can be minimal. A cell range expansion CRE can be area near to the boundary of the cell where the transmission power and signal is weaker than a signal in the standard cell and the co channel interference can be more significant. In an example the first macro node A can generate a cell range expansion in the first LPN A and the second LPN node by requesting that mobile devices within the first macro node s coverage area perform biasing such as RS biasing.

The cell range expansion of LPNs can be due to RS biasing requested by the macro nodes. RS biasing can apply an offset to the RS measurements allowing a LPN with a signal strength weaker than the macro node to associate with the mobile device. In an example the RS biasing can have a range greater than 0 dB to about 6 dB. In another example the RS biasing can have a range greater than 0 dB to about 16 dB.

Association or handover biasing can be an effective means to achieve the load balancing in non uniform heterogeneous network deployments. The load balancing can be provided by coverage or range expansion at LPNs low transmission power nodes . The range expansion can be virtually achieved by biasing of the mobile device association metric for LPNs by some value which may be signaled from the macro node to the mobile device via higher layers such as radio resource control RRC signaling. The mobile device association metric can include a reference signal received power RSRP or a reference signal received quality RSRQ . The load balancing can introduce sever interference conditions for mobile devices located in the range expansion zone. In order to provide reasonable throughput performance for such mobile devices interference mitigation schemes such as DL eICIC or CoMP can be applied at the macro node an overlay high transmission power node or aggressor node .

The association can refer to the mobile device s direct wireless communication with a node either a macro node or LPN. A re association can include transferring a mobile device s direct wireless communication from one node to another node. The both nodes in the re association may be within a coordination set or the nodes in the re association may be in different coordination sets. A handover can refer to a transfer of the mobile device s direct wireless communication from a first node in a first coordination set to a second node in a second coordination set.

In an example association biasing may not account for interference mitigation scheme parameters such as a coordination set. In particular association biasing applied at the mobile device for LPNs regardless of the coordination set that the LPNs belong to can reduce the effectiveness of the interference mitigation such as DL eICIC or CoMP. The coordination set or cluster can be defined as a set of nodes connected with each other via backhaul link and performing coordinated transmissions.

Association biasing and hence range expansion of LPNs may be applied to LPNs within the macro node s coordination set without applying association biasing to LPN outside the macro node s coordination set to improve performance of the mobile devices after the re association with the LPNs. In an example the macro node can inform the mobile devices of a specified association biasing value such as a RS biasing value and the LPNs belonging to the same coordination set as the macro node in the coordination set information . The range expansion can be applied at the mobile for a restricted set of LPNs belonging to the same coordination set or cooperation set of the macro node. LPNs outside the restricted set may not receive the range expansion.

For example illustrates a second mobile device A applying range expansion A for the first LPN node A in a same coordination set as the first macro node A and a first mobile device B not applying range expansion or maintaining a standard range B for the second LPN node B in a different coordination set as the first macro node. The first mobile device may receive a first macro node to first mobile device transmission A from the first macro node and a second LPN transmission B from the second LPN. The second mobile device may receive a first macro node to second mobile device transmission A from the first macro node and a first LPN transmission A from the first LPN. Both the first mobile device and the second mobile can receive the coordination set information for a first coordination set for the LPNs or other nodes associated with the first macro node. Both the first mobile device and the second mobile can receive a request to apply a specified RS biasing. The request can include the specified RS biasing value or the mobile device can apply a predetermined RS biasing value stored within the mobile device. For example the specified RS biasing can be a 3 dB value to be applied to a RSRP measurement. An RSRP can be measured in dBm and can have a range of 140 dBm to 44 dBm. The first mobile device can generate through a measurement a first RSRP for the first macro node to be 80 dBm and generate a second RSRP for the second LPN to be 82 dBm. Because the first RSRP has a higher value than the second RSRP the first mobile device associates with the first macro node. The second mobile device can generate through a measurement a third RSRP for the first macro node to be 81 dBm and generate a fourth RSRP for the first LPN to be 83 dBm. Because the third RSRP has a higher value than the fourth RSRP the second mobile device associates with the first macro node. Since the first LPN is in the same coordination set as the first macro node the specified RS biasing can be applied to the first LPN. Thus the RS biasing increases the apparent or virtual fourth RSRP value to 80 dBm 83 dBm RSRP measurement plus the 3 dB offset of the specified RS biasing . Since the fourth RSRP value is now greater than the third RSRP of 81 dBm the second mobile device may re associate with the first LPN by transferring communication from the first macro node to the first LPN.

In the example since the second LPN B is in a different coordination set as the first macro node A the first mobile device B may not apply the specified RS biasing to the second LPN B. Thus the first RSRP value for the first macro node of 80 dBm remains higher than the second RSRP value for the second LPN of 82 dBm. Thus no re association from the first macro node to the second LPN may occur. The first mobile device may remain associated A with the first macro device and the second LPN may have a standard range no range expansion as illustrated in . The second mobile device A may be re associated A with first LPN A with a range expansion.

In an LTE network a UE can measure as least two parameters on a reference signal including a reference signal received power RSRP and a reference signal received quality RSRQ . RSRP can be defined as a linear average over the power contributions in W of the resource elements that carry cell specific reference signals CRS within a considered measurement frequency bandwidth. For RSRP determination the CRS R may be used. If the mobile can reliably detect that R is available R in addition to R may be used to determine RSRP. The reference point for the RSRP may be an antenna connector of the mobile device. RSRQ can be defined as the ratio N RSRP E UTRA carrier RSSI where N is the number of resource blocks RBs of an evolved universal terrestrial radio access E UTRA carrier received signal strength indicator RSSI measurement bandwidth. The measurements in the numerator and denominator can be made over the same set of resource blocks. The E UTRA carrier RSSI can comprise the linear average of the total received power in W observed in OFDM symbols containing reference symbols for an antenna port in the measurement bandwidth over N number of resource blocks by the UE from all sources including co channel serving and non serving cells adjacent channel interference and or thermal noise. The reference point for the RSRQ may be the antenna connector of the UE.

Association biasing can also be used in a Coordinated MultiPoint CoMP system also known as multi eNodeB multiple input multiple output MIMO to improve interference mitigation. illustrates an example of an inter site CoMP system . The CoMP system can be illustrated as a plurality of cooperating transmitting stations outlined with a bold line surrounded by a plurality of non cooperating transmitting stations. In a CoMP system the transmitting stations can be grouped together as cooperating transmitting stations A C in adjacent cells where the cooperating transmitting stations from multiple cells can transmit signals to the mobile device and receive signals from the mobile device. Each transmitting station can serve multiple cells or sectors A K A K and A K. The cell can be a logical definition generated by the transmitting station or geographic transmission area or sub area within a total coverage area covered by the transmitting station which can include a specific cell identification ID that defines the parameters for the cell such as control channels reference signals and component carriers CC frequencies. By coordinating transmission among multiple cells interference from other cells can be reduced and the received power of the desired signal can be increased. The cooperating transmitting stations can coordinate transmission reception of signals from to the mobile device. The transmitting stations outside the CoMP system can be non cooperating transmitting stations D K. The cooperating transmitting stations of each CoMP system can be included in a coordinating set which can be used in association biasing.

In an intra site CoMP example illustrated in LPNs or RRHs of a macro node A may be located at different locations in space and CoMP coordination may be within a single macro similar to HetNet. A cell A of a macro node may be further sub divided into sub cells and . LPNs or RRHs and may transmit and receive signals for a sub cell. LPNs or RRHs and may transmit and receive signals for a cell A and A. A mobile communication device can be on a sub cell edge or cell edge and intra site CoMP coordination can occur between the LPNs or RRHs .

Downlink DL CoMP transmission can be divided into two categories coordinated scheduling or coordinated beamforming CS CB or CS CBF and joint processing or joint transmission JP JT . With CS CB a given subframe can be transmitted from one cell to a given mobile communication device UE and the scheduling including coordinated beamforming is dynamically coordinated between the cells in order to control and or reduce the interference between different transmissions. For joint processing joint transmission can be performed by multiple cells to a mobile communication device UE in which multiple transmitting stations transmit at the same time using the same time and frequency radio resources and dynamic cell selection. Two methods can be used for joint transmission non coherent transmission which uses soft combining reception of the OFDM signal and coherent transmission which performs precoding between cells for in phase combining at the receiver. By coordinating and combining signals from multiple antennas CoMP allows mobile users to enjoy consistent performance and quality for high bandwidth services whether the mobile user is close to the center of a cell or at the outer edges of the cell.

Another example provides a method for association biasing at a mobile device in a heterogeneous network HetNet as shown in the flow chart in . The method includes the operation of receiving coordination set information from a macro node in the HetNet at the mobile device wherein the coordination set information includes at least one low power node LPN identifier of at least one LPN as in block . The operation of receiving a request from the macro node at the mobile device to apply a specified reference signal RS biasing follows as in block . The next operation of the method can be applying the specified RS biasing at the mobile device to an LPN RS measurement derived from a LPN RS received from an LPN having an LPN identifier in the received coordination set information as in block . The method further includes associating the mobile device with the LPN when the LPN RS measurement with the specified RS biasing exceeds an association threshold as in block .

Associating the mobile device with the LPN can include associating the mobile device with the LPN when the LPN RS measurement with the specified RS biasing exceeds a macro node RS measurement by a predetermined amount. The predetermined amount can include a tolerance or margin to reduce a likelihood of a re association between the macro node and LPN with a minor fluctuation in the RS measurement either LPN RS measurement or the macro node RS measurement. The predetermined amount can reduce an excessive re association between the macro node and the LPN. The mobile device can measure the LPN RS from the LPN to generate the LPN RS measurement. The mobile device can measure a macro node RS from the macro node to generate the macro node RS measurement. At least one LPN in a coordinating set can have coordinated signaling with the macro node in the coordinating set. The request from the macro node at the mobile device to apply the specified RS biasing can be used to offload traffic at the macro node. The mobile device applying the specified RS biasing to the LPN RS measurement can expand a range for the mobile device to associate with the LPN. The mobile device can associate with the LPN and send a re association request from the mobile device to the macro node to associate with the LPN. The re association request instructs the macro node to offload communication with the mobile device to the LPN. The re association request can include a LPN RS measurement taken by the mobile device. The mobile device can associate with the LPN and transfer communication from the macro node to the LPN.

The mobile device or UE can be in communication with a macro node or macro eNodeB or a low power node or micro eNodeB pico eNodeB femto eNodeB or HeNB . In an example an available transmission power of the macro node may be at least ten times an available transmission power of the LPN.

The mobile device can include a transceiver and a processing module . The transceiver of the mobile device can be configured to receive coordination set information from a macro node in the HetNet and receive a request from the macro node to apply a specified RS biasing. The coordination set information can include at least one LPN identifier of at least one LPN having coordinated signaling with the macro node. The processing module of the mobile device can be configured to apply the specified RS biasing to a LPN RS measurement when a LPN has a LPN identifier in the received coordination set information and trigger an association with the LPN when the LPN RS measurement with the specified RS biasing exceeds an association threshold by a predetermined amount. The predetermined amount can have a value of zero. The association threshold can be based on a macro node RS measurement. The processing module can be further configured to measure a LPN RS to generate a LPN RS measurement and or measure a macro node RS to generate a macro node RS measurement.

In another example a transmission station can be in wireless communication with a mobile device. provides an example illustration of the mobile device such as a user equipment UE a mobile station MS a mobile wireless device a mobile communication device a tablet a handset or other type of mobile wireless device. The mobile device can include one or more antennas configured to communicate with a node macro node low power node LPN or transmission station such as a base station BS an evolved Node B eNB a base band unit BBU a remote radio head RRH a remote radio equipment RRE a relay station RS a radio equipment RE or other type of wireless wide area network WWAN access point. The mobile device can be configured to communicate using at least one wireless communication standard including 3GPP LTE WiMAX High Speed Packet Access HSPA Bluetooth and WiFi. The mobile device can communicate using separate antennas for each wireless communication standard or shared antennas for multiple wireless communication standards. The mobile device can communicate in a wireless local area network WLAN a wireless personal area network WPAN and or a WWAN.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The base station and mobile device may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

