---

title: Role based history in a modular learning system
abstract: A modular learning system provides user histories to a viewing user. The modular learning system maintains a database of activity items associated with a set of user roles allowed to view and interact with the activity items. The activity items are generated as users perform actions on the modular learning system. The modular learning system receives a request for a user history from a viewing user. The modular learning system verifies a viewing user's role and identifies activity items that are accessible to the viewing user based on the viewing user role. The identified activity items are then used to generate histories that are provided to the viewing user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09563676&OS=09563676&RS=09563676
owner: Monk Akarshala Inc.
number: 09563676
owner_city: Sacramento
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120912
---
This application is a U.S. National Stage of International Application No. PCT US2012 054696 titled Role Based History in a Modular Learning System filed on 12 Sep. 2012 which claims the benefit of Indian Provisional Specification No. 2579 MUM 2011 titled Role Based History in a Learning System filed on 13 Sep. 2011 both of which are incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The present invention relates generally to modular learning systems and more particularly to systems and methods of generating role based histories in a modular learning system.

The current education environment includes various members like learners teachers tutors coaches lecturers content authors schools educational boards professional standards authorities admission testing authorities placement organizations recruiters publishers and various governments. These members maintain transactional and functional relationships with each other. Members are unaware of each other s activities in their respective activities through an organized medium except for isolated activity such as bulletin boards newsletters circulars as well as journalistic articles. Such services though useful do not enable the said members to view a comprehensive activity history of other members especially those who play another role in the current educational environment.

Each of a plurality of kinds of users on the modular learning system are not able to grant granular access to each such user s activity history on the modular learning system to one or a subset of the plurality of other users in a variety of other user roles on the said modular learning system through a user role history management interface generated and displayed with corresponding interface items and input areas to each such requested user on the said user s preferred user device and for each corresponding viewing user to view each such user s activity history through an exemplary user role history viewing interface generated and displayed with corresponding interface items to each such viewing user on the user s user device.

A system and a computer implemented method for providing role based histories to a requested user in a modular learning system is disclosed. A modular learning system provides user histories to a viewing user. The modular learning system maintains a database of activity items associated with a set of user roles allowed to view and interact with the activity items. The activity items are generated as users perform actions on the modular learning system. The modular learning system receives a request for a user history from a viewing user. Upon receiving the request the modular learning system verifies a viewing user s role and identifies activity items that are accessible to the viewing user based on the viewing user role. The identified activity items are then used to generate histories that are provided to the viewing user.

In an aspect the invention further provides a non transitory computer readable storage medium having tangibly embodied thereon a program of instructions executable by a processor for performing a method for generating role based histories in a modular learning system

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Additional features and advantages will be made apparent from the following detailed description of embodiments that proceeds with reference to the accompanying drawings.

The Figures FIGS. and the following description relate to embodiments by way of illustration only. It should be noted that from the following discussion alternative embodiments of the systems methods figures diagrams and interfaces disclosed herein will be readily recognized as viable alternatives that may be employed without departing from the principles of what is claimed.

Reference will now be made in detail to several embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying figures. It is noted that wherever practicable similar or like reference numbers may be used in the figures and may indicate similar or like functionality. The figures depict embodiments of the disclosed system or method for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following description that alternative embodiments of the systems methods figures diagrams and interfaces illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the various embodiments may be practiced without these specific details.

A system and method for generating role based activity histories in a modular learning system environment is provided. In one embodiment a role based activity history management module is used in a modular learning system and comprises a plurality of modules and generators like a purchase items module a performance items module a user databases module a user role preferences module a user role validation module a history items module a summary updation module an activity monitoring module and a user role history interface generator. A method for generating role based activity histories in a modular learning system environment may comprise receiving a history items display request from a viewing user determining the viewing user s user role in the modular learning system determining if the viewing user is same as the user whose history is requested determining requested user s user role in the modular learning system displaying the history access request to the requested user retrieving items relevant to the requested user s user role generating history items for the requested user based on the user s user role in the modular learning system and displaying the requested history items to the viewing user.

Modular learning system allows a learning user to manage the purchase and performance of each module of a single microlearning service stack for a learning application e.g. Breaststroke or a group of learning applications e.g. Breaststroke Freestyle Butterfly and Swimming Safety . Tutor access such as access to a swimming instructor may be purchased in various increments such as in hours. Learning content applications such as a breaststroke application with attached instructional media and other data may be purchased in timed access quantities or may be permanently purchased. Learning facility access such as an Olympic Sized Swimming Pool may be purchased in increments of hours or learning application performances such as ten laps. Learning tools or materials such as Swimming Goggles may be purchased as well. Each of these modules may be separately purchased and interacted with through an interface displayed on user device . In case of a learning performance which can be completed on the user device itself the learning application content is not only purchased and managed but also performed through an interface displayed on the user device . A learning user may manage the purchase and performance of groups of microlearning performances in the form of learning visits and learning workshops through an interface displayed on user device . Learning user may manage an individual learning identity or learning profile and offer details of microlearning application performances completed by the learning user as well as the personal learning metrics scores and reviews. This learning identity may be provided to recruiting users for the purpose of placement.

The modular learning system manages regulates and supervises the purchase sale preview performance and review of a plurality of microlearning applications each comprised modularly of a tutoring service a learning application learning facility access and or learning tools or infrastructure access a learning visit and or a workshop as described in further detail below. The modular learning system manages transactional and functional relationships between users of the modular learning system . These various users interact with the modular learning system to modify learning applications and provide learning services as described below.

The modular learning system may enable various other users including but not limited to tutors authors tool material suppliers learning application template developers translators certifying user learning facility administrators learning event organizers recruiters and funders to modularly manage at least one of micro tutoring services associated with specific learning applications microlearning content applications microlearning application templates translation of microlearning content applications certification of microlearning content applications access to learning facilities access to learning workshops organization of learning visits associated with specific learning applications supply of tools aids and or materials recruitment services as well as granular funding services.

The modular learning system enables a tutoring user to provide micro tutoring services to learning user . Tutoring user are typically individuals with credentials or other knowledge in the area of learning applications. The tutoring user may associate themselves with particular pieces of content to and may indicate qualifications to teach each learning application as is described further below. The modular learning system manages the sale of micro tutoring services and associated tutoring user with specific learning applications to learning user . Tutoring user assist the learning user with learning the subject matter of the learning application. The tutoring user may provide tutoring to the learning user by meeting the learning user in person to assist the learning user in performing the learning application. As such the modular learning system facilitates the meeting and communication of tutors and learners. Tutoring user may also provide learning performance data to the modular learning system . The learning performance data may indicate for example the level of the learner s mastery or proficiency through scoring or other metrics for reviewing performance at a learning performance task. The tutoring user provides input to the modular learning system using a plurality of learning applications through an interface displayed on the tutoring user s user device .

The modular learning system enables a learning application authoring user to manage the drafting editing testing publishing sale and updates of learning content in applications through an interface displayed on user device . That is the learning application authoring user authors individual pieces of learning content which may be purchased and used by a learning user. For example a learning application authoring user may create instructional content for learning the backstroke. The instructional content may comprise instructions and multimedia as well as directions for the learning user to practice aspects of the backstroke in a suitable pool. The learning application authoring user may use a pre existing application template to create the learning application.

The modular learning system enables a learning application template developing user to create learning templates for use in creating learning applications. The learning application templates provide a framework for creating various types of learning applications. For example learning application templates may comprise a quiz simulation role play experiment multimedia material and other types of learning frameworks. The learning application template developing user may manage the development testing and sale of the learning application templates to learning content application authoring users through an interface displayed on a user device .

The modular learning system enables a learning application translating user to manage the translation and translation updates of learning content in applications and sale of such services to microlearning content application authors through an interface displayed on a user device . The translations are provided to the modular learning system and may be stored with the corresponding learning application to enable providing instructions to learning users in a variety of languages.

The modular learning system enables a learning application certifying user to certify various learning applications according to standards applied by the certifying user . Such certifying users may include boards of education at various levels universities professional standards groups and other certification authorities. Certifying users may or may not be formal institutions. For example a certifying user may include a company establishing a set of learning applications to prepare a candidate for a job with the company. The certifying user manages the certification of each learning content application as a part of their respective curricula or syllabi and manages the sale of such certification services to learning content application authoring users through an interface displayed on user device .

The learning facility facilitates the performance of specific learning applications available on the modular learning system . Learning facilities may comprise any location suitable for performing types of learning applications. For example learning facilities may comprise an athletic club a chemistry lab a science lab a university a library or a tutor s home. In some embodiments the modular learning system enables a facility administering user to determine the compatibility of various learning applications which can be performed within learning facility by picking the learning infrastructure available in the learning facility and associating the learning facility with each learning application e.g. Breaststroke compatible with the learning infrastructure e.g. Olympic sized Swimming Pool . In one embodiment rather than expressly associating the learning facility with individual learning applications the learning facility administering user indicates to the modular learning system the specific infrastructures and amenities available at the learning facility . In this embodiment the modular learning system enables a learning user or learning application authoring user to identify a learning facility which is compatible with the learning application based on the infrastructure available at the learning facility . The modular learning system may also identify compatible learning facilities based on metadata associated with the learning application and the infrastructure indicated by the learning facility administering user .

The learning facilities may comprise a variety of types of learning facilities such as an independent learning facility institutional learning facility workplace learning facility and temporary learning facility. The modular learning system enables an administrator of an independent learning facility owned managed or franchised by the modular learning system to manage the sale of learning facility access for performances of specific microlearning applications as well as sale of learning tools and materials e.g. sulphuric acid or swimming goggles or access to the same in micro increments of time and money six hour or five learning application performance depending on multiple factors like the learning infrastructure to be accessed e.g. Swimming Pool Computers Chemistry Lab number of hours of access and the like through an interface displayed on a user device .

The modular learning system enables an administrator of an institutional learning facility like a preschool school college or university e.g. Bangalore University associated partnered or linked with the modular learning system to in addition to managing the sale associated with the independent learning facility e.g. learning facility access for performances of specific microlearning applications manage the learning performances of a plurality of learners students or outsiders across a plurality of learning applications available on the system with the learning user s explicit consent optionally delegated to a plurality of teachers professors lecturers or coaches registered as tutoring users on the modular learning system through an interface displayed on a user device .

The modular learning system enables an administrator of a workspace learning facility associated partnered or linked with the modular learning system to in addition to managing the sale associated with the independent learning facility e.g. learning facility access for performances of specific microlearning applications manage the learning performances of a plurality of learners employees across a plurality of learning applications available on the system with the learning user s explicit consent optionally delegated to a plurality of Human Resource Managers Trainers and or immediate superiors registered as tutoring users on the modular learning system through an interface displayed on a user device .

The modular learning system enables an administrator of a temporary learning facility e.g. a Cricket Ground available for net practice on Saturdays and Sundays from six in the morning to twelve in the midnight to in addition to managing the sale associated with the independent learning facility e.g. learning facility access for performances of specific microlearning applications manage the hours of accessibility to the designated learning facility through an interface displayed on a user device . In addition to managing the sale and performance of microlearning applications an administrator of an independent institutional workspace or temporary learning facility may manage the modular purchase of learning infrastructure e.g. chemistry equipment computers cricket stumps as well as learning tools aids and materials e.g. sulphuric acid swimming goggles cricket bat from the modular learning system or a third party topic wise subject wise location wise or otherwise based on the learning applications intended to be offered in the designated learning facility through an interface displayed on a user device .

The modular learning system enables a learning visit organizing user to manage the organization of learning visits and the sale of learning visits to learning users . The learning visit organizing user may also associate a learning visit with compatible microlearning applications. Such learning visits may comprise for example a visit to a factory or industrial area a museum or a trip to a city. The learning visit organizing user may associate the learning visit with learning applications and manage the learning performances during the learning visits. The management of performances of associated learning applications may be optionally provided by tutoring users . The learning visit organizing user communicates with the modular learning system through an interface displayed on a user device .

The modular learning system enables a learning workshop organizing user to manage the organization of workshops available to learning users . A workshop comprises a plurality of specific microlearning applications to be performed in the workshop and a sequence of the microlearning applications to be performed at the workshop. The workshop may also specify learning tools a designated learning facility and a tutoring user or tutoring users to perform the workshop. As such the workshop user organizes performance and modules of learning applications to be performed together with a group of learning users . The learning workshop organizing users also manage the sale of such microlearning workshop access and manage the learning performances for a plurality of learners. The learning workshop organizing users communicate with the modular learning system through an interface displayed on a user device .

The modular learning system enables a learning tools supplying user to provide learning tools and materials such as chemicals biology samples computer software and other materials for use with learning applications to learning users . The learning tools supplying user manages the organization and sale of the learning tools and materials or optionally access to the same to learning users and administrators of learning facilities . The learning tools supplying user may also associate learning tools with particular learning applications stored on modular learning system . Alternatively the learning tools supplying user may designate the tools available and the modular learning system may determine which learning applications may require the tools provided by the learning tools supplying user . The learning tools supplying user communicates with the modular learning system through an interface displayed on a user device .

The modular learning system enables a recruiter of learning users to manage the recruitment of learning users through the modular learning system . The recruiter may view and filter learning users by specific learning applications performed on the system scores metrics and reviews generated in relation to the learning applications performed by learning users . The recruiter may access and filter learning users based on demographic data like the language used in performing the learning application. Recruiting user may also operate as a certifying user to certify particular learning applications that may be desirable to the recruiting user . The recruiting user may use the certified application as a filter prior considering learning users for a position. The recruiting user manages recruiting access to the modular learning system through an interface displayed on a user device .

The modular learning system enables a funding user of learning users to provide funding and scholarship funds and other support to learning users . Such funding users may comprise a parent sibling friend spouse relative university employer or scholarship grant offering institution. The funds may be provided for the funding of specific learning users or of specific learning applications or of specific microlearning goods and services associated with the specific learning applications in small increments through an interface displayed on a user device .

Although the modular learning environment is described as being composed of various user devices e.g. personal computer a network e.g. internet intranet world wide web learning facilities e.g. an Independent Learning Facility an Institutional Learning Facility it would be appreciated by one skilled in the art that fewer or more kinds of users e.g. a Learning Application Fact Checking User a Web Based Offsite Tutoring User user devices e.g. a mobile phone device a portable gaming console device a tablet device a learning console device gaming console device or server device attached to a television or other screen networks e.g. an intranet at a preschool school college university educational board professional standards authority coaching tuition class a social or professional network an intranet at a company HR department training department and at a training organization and learning facilities may comprise the modular learning environment with the present disclosure still falling within the scope of various embodiments.

A user database is configured for receiving storing updating and retrieving a plurality of data fields of each user such as the user s name address and contact details. Depending on the user s role in the modular learning system the user database maintains additional information on the user. For example for a learning user the user database maintains learning history outside the modular learning system learning application performance history on the modular learning system purchase history of learning applications as well as purchase history of a host of related microlearning purchase items like for example timed access to learning facility timed access to tutor and purchase of access to a learning tool from learning tools database . In some embodiments the data fields are used to determine purchase compatibility using purchase management module and to determine performance compatibility using performance management module .

The user database may maintain information about each type of user based on the user s role in the system. The user information may be stored in a plurality of databases each database associated with a user role or the user roles may be stored in a single user database . For example the additional user roles include learning application authoring users learning facility administering users learning visit organizing users learning facility administering users and other types of users of the modular learning system .

In one embodiment a distinct Learning User Database is configured for receiving storing updating and retrieving a plurality of data fields of each learning user comprising the learning user s name address contact details as well as learning related data fields like learning history outside the modular learning system learning application performance history on the modular learning system purchase history of learning applications as well as purchase history of a host of related microlearning purchase items like for example access to learning facility access to tutor and purchase of access to an learning tool. In one embodiment a distinct Learning Application Authoring User Database is configured for receiving storing updating and retrieving a plurality of data fields of each learning application authoring user say user . In one embodiment a distinct Independent Learning Facility Administering User Database is configured for receiving storing updating and retrieving a plurality of data fields of each independent learning facility administering user say user . In one embodiment a distinct Learning Tools Supplying User Database is configured for receiving storing updating and retrieving a plurality of data fields of each learning tools supplying user say user . In one embodiment a distinct Learning Visit Organizing User Database is configured for receiving storing updating and retrieving a plurality of data fields of each learning visit organizing user . In one embodiment a distinct Learning Application Translating User Database is configured for receiving storing updating and retrieving a plurality of data fields of each learning application translating user say user . In one embodiment a distinct Learning Application Certifying User Database is configured for receiving storing updating and retrieving a plurality of data fields of each learning application certifying user say user . In one embodiment a distinct Learning Application Template Developing User Database is configured for receiving storing updating and retrieving a plurality of data fields of each learning application template developing user say user . In one embodiment a distinct Learning Workshop Organizing User Database is configured for receiving storing updating and retrieving a plurality of data fields of each learning workshop organizing user say user . In one embodiment a distinct Recruiting User Database is configured for receiving storing updating and retrieving a plurality of data fields of each recruiting user say recruiting user . In one embodiment a distinct Funding User Database is configured for receiving storing updating and retrieving a plurality of data fields of each funding user say funding user .

In one embodiment a distinct Institutional Learning Facility Administering User Database is configured for receiving storing updating and retrieving a plurality of data fields of each institutional learning facility administering user say user . In one embodiment a distinct Workspace Learning Facility Administering User Database is used to is configured for receiving storing updating and retrieving a plurality of data fields of each workspace learning facility administering user say user . In one embodiment a distinct Temporary Learning Facility Administering User Database is configured for receiving storing updating and retrieving a plurality of data fields of each temporary learning facility administering user say user . In one embodiment a distinct Learning Facility Database is configured for receiving storing updating and retrieving a plurality of data fields of a plurality of kinds of learning facilities say facility as received from a plurality of kinds of learning facility administering users say user . In one embodiment a distinct Learning Visits Database is configured for receiving storing updating and retrieving a plurality of data fields of each learning visit from the respective learning visit organizing user say user . In some embodiments the data fields of the databases in the above embodiments are used to determine purchase compatibility using purchase management module and to determine performance compatibility using performance management module .

The learning application database is configured for receiving storing updating and retrieving all the learning application metadata of all learning applications whose purchase is managed through the module . Optionally all purchase related metadata of learning application like number of copies accessed per day segmented by location language learning facility user device as well as other learning related purchase analytics metadata that may be generated during the purchase process may be received stored and updated by the microlearning purchase management module in the learning application database .

In one embodiment database is configured for receiving storing updating and retrieving all the learning application metadata of all learning applications whose performance is managed through the module . Optionally all performance related metadata of the learning application like number of copies performed per day segmented by location language learning facility user device as well as other learning related performance analytics metadata that may be generated during the performance process may be received stored and updated by the microlearning performance management module in the learning application database .

A subject database is configured for receiving storing updating and retrieving a plurality of data fields of each subject linked or tagged to each learning application in Subject Metadata . The subject database provides a categorization system for the learning applications and enables learning application authoring users like user to categorize learning applications as belonging to one or more subjects by associating them with one or more subjects such subjects then stored in subject metadata of each authored learning application . The subject database also allows users to search for learning applications according to particular subjects using the subjects associated with the learning applications. For example a tutoring user with a mathematics specialty may search the learning applications using the subject database to identify mathematics learning applications for the tutor to associate his services with.

A tutor database is configured for receiving storing updating and retrieving a plurality of data fields of each tutoring user comprising the tutoring user s name address contact details as well as learning related data fields like learning users to whom microlearning services have or are being provided performance data and performance review data for the tutoring services tutoring history outside the modular learning system and remittance history. In some embodiments the data fields are used to determine purchase compatibility using purchase management module and to determine performance compatibility using performance management module .

A learning facility database is configured for receiving storing updating and retrieving a plurality of data fields of a plurality of kinds of learning facilities such as learning facility as received from learning facility administering users . In some embodiments the data fields are used to determine purchase compatibility using purchase management module and to determine performance compatibility using performance management module .

A learning tools database is configured for receiving storing updating and retrieving a plurality of data fields of each learning tool or material from each learning tools supplying user . In some embodiments the data fields are used to determine purchase compatibility using purchase management module and to determine performance compatibility using performance management module .

Each of these databases such as the tutor database facilities database and learning tools database may also include information relating to purchase and performance compatibility. For example a tutor in the tutor database may specify the tutor is only willing to teach students aged thirty to forty or a learning facility may indicate it is only willing to allow entry to learning users who are a member of the facility.

A purchase management module is configured for managing the purchase of learning applications and associated application services as a microlearning stack by the learning user .

A performance management module is configured for managing the performance of learning applications and associated application services as a microlearning stack by the learning user .

A role based activity history management module is configured for generating role based histories in a modular learning system. The role based histories are generated based on the activities occurring within the modular learning system and the roles of various viewing users. The role based activity history management module identifies user roles that are permitted to view each type of activity that occurs on the modular learning system and creates histories responsive to history access requests. The histories provided for history access requests are created by determining the applicable user role of the requesting user and identifying activities accessible by the user role and for the user.

In one embodiment the tutor database learning facilities database tools database and other application services databases form a single consolidated application services database in modular learning system .

Although the modular learning system is described as being composed of various components like databases and modules the modular learning system may comprise fewer or more databases components and other modules. For example the modular learning system may include a Learning Application Genre Database a Locational Learning Facility Price Range Database a Learning Workshop Database a Multilingual Dictionary Database a Concept Tags Database a Learning Objectives Outcomes Database and a Micro tutoring Services Database and a Skill and Ability Tags Database. The modular learning system may also include an Age Compatibility Module a Learner Ranking Module a Tutor Ranking Module a Learner Billing Module a Tutor Remittance Module a Profile Management Module a User Roles Management Module a Learning Tools Management Module a Learning Facility Management Module Metadata Management Module a Notification Module a Recruitment Module a Funding Module a Map Module a Learning Application Template Programming Interface Module an Age Compatibility Module or a Translation Interface Module with the present disclosure still falling within the scope of various embodiments. In some embodiments an individual or group may play a plurality of user roles on the modular learning system e.g. tutoring user learning new applications as a learning user through another tutoring user a learning application authoring user translating the authored application or developing the application template with the present disclosure still falling within the scope of various embodiments.

In various embodiments the modular learning system may be any of a web application a mobile application or an embedded module or subsystem of a social networking environment a learning content management system a learning management system a professional networking environment an electronic commerce system an electronic payments system a mobile operating system a computer based operating system or of a tablet based operating system with the present disclosure still falling within the scope of various embodiments.

In one embodiment a distinct roles management module is configured for managing and authorizing different roles associated with the various users of the modular learning system and in the respective user databases. For example the roles management module may provide distinct feature tabs and functionalities to each user based on the role associated with him or her. It can be noted that the roles management module may enable a user to have one or more roles for accessing the modular learning system . For example a tutoring user can avail the functionality and interface tabs of a learning user and also of a translating user if authorized by the modular learning system .

In one embodiment a distinct metadata management module is configured for managing metadata associated with a plurality of specific learning applications like learning application . In one embodiment the metadata management module is configured for receiving storing updating and retrieving various types of metadata associated with each learning application in the learning application database . In another embodiment the metadata management module is configured for receiving and storing updated metadata of a specific learning application in database at regular intervals of time as updated by different users in authorized user roles and retrieving the required metadata when requested by the purchase management module and the performance management module for determining compatibility and performance compatibility of requested microlearning service stack respectively. In yet another embodiment the metadata management module enables various users of the modular learning platform to update metadata associated with specific learning applications in the learning application database according to their user role.

It is appreciated that in some embodiments various databases like and modules and as well as the databases engines modules and components of the above embodiments may be stored in the form of machine readable instructions in the memory of the modular learning system and executed by a processor of the modular learning system to perform one or more embodiments disclosed herein. Alternatively the various databases like and modules and as well the databases engines modules and components of the above embodiments may be implemented in the modular learning system in the form of an apparatus configured to perform one or more embodiments disclosed herein.

The Certification Metadata is used to receive store retrieve display and update certification history as well as live certifications of the learning application including for example a certification from educational board and another educational board in another state present as a certifying user in database or a distinct certifying user database. In some embodiments the certification metadata is also used to determine purchase compatibility in the microlearning purchase management module through learning application database and to determine performance compatibility in the microlearning performance management module through learning application database .

The Scoring Metrics Metadata is used to receive store retrieve display and update a plurality of metrics for quantitative and qualitative scoring as defined and updated for learning application by learning content application authoring user . In some embodiments the quantitative scoring of each metric is conducted during the performance by a dedicated module within the learning application itself while in other embodiments of a performance especially a non screen based praxis or poeisis performance the quantitative and optionally qualitative score for each metric is received through a user device from the learning user and or the tutoring user . In some embodiments the scoring metrics metadata is also used to determine purchase compatibility in the microlearning purchase management module through learning application database and to determine performance compatibility in the microlearning performance management module through learning application database .

The Language Metadata is used to receive store retrieve display and update a plurality of translations of all user viewable application metadata for learning application translated by for example learning application translating user into Bengali comprising of media metadata like instructional text subtitles to audio and video instructions and all other linguistic content for the preview performance and review of learning application by learning user and preview and review of the learning performance by tutoring user . In some embodiments metadata further comprises translations in at least one other language of performance type metadata duration metadata subject links and tags metadata age level metadata learning facility metadata authoring metadata sequence metadata tool metadata mode metadata medium metadata and job skill metadata . In some embodiments the language metadata is also used to determine purchase compatibility in the microlearning purchase management module through learning application database and to determine performance compatibility in the microlearning performance management module through learning application database .

The Performance Type Metadata is used to receive store retrieve display and update the performance type of the learning application . For example the metadata could indicate a theoria to think a theory based application using primarily memory reasoning logic like a Biomechanics of Swimming Pop Quiz performance type or a praxis performance type to do a practical performance type like an eight hundred meter Freestyle Swim as per Olympic performance guidelines or a poeisis performance type to make a creation oriented performance type like a 5 minute Synchronized Swimming Choreography such that the learning user is already aware of the task or performance type before purchasing and performing the learning application . In some embodiments the performance type metadata is also used to determine purchase compatibility in the microlearning purchase management module through learning application database and to determine performance compatibility in the microlearning performance management module through learning application database .

The Duration Metadata is used to receive store retrieve display and update the suggested duration of the learning application . In some embodiments the metadata indicates a fixed duration like fifteen minutes or thirty minutes or one hour while in other embodiments the metadata indicates a variable duration with optionally a predetermined minimum or maximum duration depending on the duration metadata set by the learning application authoring user . In some embodiments the duration metadata is also used to determine purchase compatibility in the microlearning purchase management module through learning application database and to determine performance compatibility in the microlearning performance management module through learning application database .

The Subject Metadata is used to receive store retrieve display and update a plurality of subject links and tags attached to the learning application by the learning content application authoring user from among the subject links and tags present in the Subject Database . In some embodiments the subject links and tags are attached to specific concepts or terms within the Media Metadata . In some embodiments the subject link tag metadata is also used to determine purchase compatibility in the microlearning purchase management module through learning application database and to determine performance compatibility in the microlearning performance management module through learning application database .

The Age Level Metadata is used to receive store retrieve display and update the suggested age level of the learning user for performance of the learning application . In some embodiments the age level is set as a minimum suggested age say for example over ten years old by the learning content application authoring user . In other embodiments a range of suggested learner ages is set by the learning application content authoring user . In some embodiments the age level metadata is also used to determine purchase compatibility in the microlearning purchase management module through learning application database and to determine performance compatibility in the microlearning performance management module through learning application database .

The Learning Facility Metadata is used to receive store retrieve display and update the suggested learning infrastructure required in a learning facility for performance of the learning application . In some embodiments such learning facilities and infrastructure e.g. Olympic Sized Swimming Pool required for the performance of the learning application e.g. eight hundred meter Freestyle to Olympic Guidelines is received and updated by the learning content application authoring user by picking the same from a learning facility database available on the modular learning system . In other embodiments the metadata is received and updated by the administering user of learning facility . In some embodiments the learning facility metadata is also used to determine purchase compatibility in the microlearning purchase management module through learning application database and to determine performance compatibility in the microlearning performance management module through learning application database .

The Authoring Metadata is used to receive store retrieve display and update the authoring metadata received by the learning content application author including for example the name signature contact details intellectual property disclaimer and other information of the user or user group. In some embodiments the metadata also includes metadata generated by the modular learning system during the authoring user s editing process including the version history tracked changes and time stamps of edits and updates to the learning content application. In some embodiments the metadata may also include citations to other learning content applications or other learning content application authoring users made by the user .

The Sequence Metadata is used to receive store retrieve display and update the suggested sequence of performance of the learning application relative to another learning application. The sequence metadata may indicate if the learning application should be performed before after instead of or with another learning application by learning content application authoring user . The user may wish for any learning user say to perform an advanced microbiology learning application only after performing a corresponding beginner s microbiology learning application irrespective of the learning user s age or quality of performance. In other embodiments wherein the learning application authoring user is not the author of the suggested beginner s application the user may input a sequence suggesting to the learning user to perform the learning application before or after a learning application authored by another learning application authoring user. In some embodiments the sequence metadata is also used to determine purchase compatibility in the microlearning purchase management module through learning application database and to determine performance compatibility in the microlearning performance management module through learning application database .

The Tool Metadata is used to receive store retrieve display and update the compatible tools or learning materials to the learning application . In some embodiments the tool compatibility is received from and updated by the learning application authoring user by accessing the tool database . In other embodiments the tool compatibility is received and updated by the learning tools supplying user by accessing the learning application database . In still other embodiments the tool compatibility may be updated by the modular learning system . In some embodiments the tool metadata is used to determine purchase compatibility in the microlearning purchase management module through learning application database and to determine performance compatibility in the microlearning performance management module through learning application database . In some embodiments wherein the learning tool is a peripheral input device which can be connected to the user device during the learning application performance e.g. Electric Guitar attached to a user device during an Introduction to Hard Rock learning application the Tool Metadata includes the compatibility to the user device . In other embodiments wherein the learning material is not material to the user device e.g. Sulphuric Acid during a Chemistry Experiment the Tool Metadata may not include any additional user device compatibility.

The Mode Metadata is used to receive store retrieve display and update the available modes of performance of the learning application. In some embodiments the mode metadata is determined by the modes chosen by the learning content application authoring user from the learning application template chosen. In various embodiments the learning application may comprise an individual learner performance mode a learner plus learner cooperative performance mode a learner versus learner competitive performance mode a learner plus tutor cooperative performance mode a learner versus tutor competitive performance mode a limited plurality of learners e.g. four learners cooperative performance mode a limited plurality of learners e.g. four learners competitive performance mode a tutor plus limited plurality of learners e.g. nine learners cooperative performance mode a typical classroom mode . Although the Mode Metadata is described as being composed of various available modes as chosen by the learning application authoring user various other modes e.g. a limited plurality of learners vs. a limited plurality of learners competitive performance mode may comprise the Mode Metadata and still fall within the scope of various embodiments. In some embodiments the various Media Metadata for the preview performance and review screens for each mode of the same learning application and the sequence of the same especially wherein the learning application is performed by multiple users from the same user device and optionally by viewing the same display device is received stored retrieved displayed and updated in the Media Metadata . In some embodiments the mode metadata is also used to determine purchase compatibility in the microlearning purchase management module through learning application database and to determine performance compatibility in the microlearning performance management module through learning application database .

The Media Metadata is used to receive store retrieve display and update text image audio video animation links and other interactive elements of the learning content application as received and updated by the learning application authoring user during the publishing and revision of the learning content application . In other embodiments the learning application Media Metadata may comprise the theoria praxis or poeisis task or optionally plurality of tasks to be completed during the performance their sequence and optionally the learning outcomes and objectives of the same. In some embodiments the media metadata is also used to determine purchase compatibility in the microlearning purchase management module through learning application database and to determine performance compatibility in the microlearning performance management module through learning application database .

The Medium Metadata is used to receive store retrieve display and update the medium of access to the learning application preview review and performance screen during the microlearning performance. For example for a Beginner s Kathak Dancing microlearning Application in addition to requiring a compatible learning facility and tutoring user the learning application authoring user or optionally modular learning system may require the preview and review screen to be viewable only on a display device connected to a learning console user device or the display device of a computer device but not a mobile device screen to ensure an optimum learning experience. In another case for a Kathak Quiz microlearning application the learning application authoring user or optionally modular learning system may require the performance screen preview screen and review screen to be viewable only on a mobile device screen but not on a display device connected to a learning console user device or the display device of a computer device. In some embodiments the medium metadata may further comprise the compatibility to a plurality of software platforms and optionally runtime environments as determined by the modular learning system . In some embodiments the medium metadata is also used to determine purchase compatibility in the microlearning purchase management module through learning application database and to determine performance compatibility in the microlearning performance management module through learning application database .

The Job Skill Metadata is used to receive store retrieve display and update the skills and abilities tagged to the learning application by the learning application authoring user the recruiting user or optionally the modular learning system from the skills and abilities database provided by the modular learning system . In some embodiments the metadata is used by a recruiting user to post the completion of the learning application optionally in a controlled testing environment or group of applications as a minimum requirement for a particular job role to a plurality of potentially employable learning users. In other embodiments the metadata is used by the recruiting user to post the requirement of completion of the learning application optionally in a controlled testing environment or group of applications as a minimum requirement for a promotion to a higher post in a particular organization to a plurality of potentially employable learning users. In some embodiments the job skill metadata is also used to determine purchase compatibility in the microlearning purchase management module through learning application database and to determine performance compatibility in the microlearning performance management module through learning application database .

The Error Metadata is used to receive store retrieve display and update the potential errors which can be made by the learning user e.g. ten potential errors in an auditing microlearning application as determined by the learning application authoring user . In some embodiments wherein the learning application e.g. a Karnataka History Quiz is performed through an input device on a user device itself the error metadata may be synchronized to each potential input point during the learning application performed through the user device by the learning application authoring user . In some embodiments wherein the learning application e.g. a Karate kata s error metadata is outside the recordable boundaries of the user device the potential errors may be entered with reference to each instructional step of the performance by the learning application authoring user such that at the time of the performance the tutoring user or in some modes the learning user himself another learning user or the recruiting user may note errors in each observable step of the performance and confirm the same on user device to generate the score. In other embodiments wherein the error observed by the observing user say tutoring user is not part of the potential errors in the Error Metadata of the application the tutoring user may update such errors to the Errors Metadata or optionally send the same to the learning application authoring user to be updated after review. In some embodiments the error metadata is also used to determine purchase compatibility in the microlearning purchase management module through learning application database and to determine performance compatibility in the microlearning performance management module through learning application database .

The Template Metadata is used to receive store retrieve display and update the default script formatting and media modules of the learning application template used to author the learning application . In some embodiments wherein a particular sequence and format of the same has been chosen by the learning content application authoring user from the options offered in the template developed by the learning application template developing user the chosen setting may be a part of the Template Metadata . In various embodiments the learning application templates may comprise a quiz role play simulation project experiment essay recital research paper race challenge problem game question exercise or problem set. In some embodiments the templates may be for performances conducted and supervised in front of a display device with an input device connected to the user device while in other embodiments the templates may be for previews reviews and guidelines for performances conducted without the input device with the user device merely placed next to the performance area or learning station e.g. for Praxis Tasks in Dance Applications as a reference point. Although the Template Metadata is described as being composed of various available templates as developed by the learning application template authoring user and chosen by the learning application authoring user various other templates e.g. a Swimming Race Template a Patent Drafting Template may comprise the Template Metadata and still fall within the scope of various embodiments. In some embodiments the template metadata is also used to determine purchase compatibility in the microlearning purchase management module through learning application database and to determine performance compatibility in the microlearning performance management module through learning application database .

The Tutor Metadata is used to receive store retrieve display and update the compatibility of tutoring users to learning content application. In some embodiments the tutoring user compatibility is received from and updated by the tutoring user by updating the tutor database e.g. a Mathematics Tutoring User whose medium of instruction is Mandarin updating compatibility to a plurality of Mathematics microlearning applications available in Mandarin in the tutor database . In other embodiments the tutoring user compatibility metadata is received from and updated by the tutoring user by accessing the learning application database . In still other embodiments the tutoring user compatibility metadata may be updated by the modular learning system . In some embodiments the Tutor Metadata is also used to determine purchase compatibility in the microlearning purchase management module through learning application database and to determine performance compatibility in the microlearning performance management module through learning application database .

In various embodiments the metadata of learning application is retrieved displayed to and updated by a plurality of kinds of users as may be applicable to the kind of metadata and the kind of user. Optionally in addition to receiving and storing the metadata the modular learning system may update the learning application metadata as and when generated in the system through a dynamic metadata update module or through a dedicated administering user. In some embodiments the learning content application authoring user may further play the role of the learning application template developing user. In some embodiments the modular learning system may play the role of the learning content application authoring user and optionally the role of the learning application template developing user to author and update the media and template metadata of the learning application .

In some embodiments the microlearning purchase management module and microlearning performance management module retrieve some or all of the above metadata associated with the learning application from a learning application database in a repository module of the modular learning system .

In some embodiments the media metadata of the learning application may comprise an electronic textbook an electronic journal an instructional video or an instructional animation. In some embodiments each learning application may be a distinct mobile application browser based web application or a desktop application. In some embodiments each learning application may be an executable file a program add in macro plug in or other program of instructions associated with a plurality of application programming interfaces of the modular learning system .

Although the learning application is described as comprising various metadata and associated data fields stored and updated in learning application database fewer or more metadata and associated data fields e.g. Application Programming Interface Metadata Organization versus Organization Social Learning Mode Metadata University versus University Social Learning Mode Metadata Testing Metadata Learning Visits Metadata Learning Workshops Metadata Tutorials Metadata may comprise the Learning Application and associated learning application database with the present disclosure still falling within the scope of various embodiments. In some embodiments each version of the same learning application with different metadata for example language metadata is treated as a distinct learning application in learning application database .

In some embodiments an authorization to update certification metadata of a learning application is limited to a predetermined plurality of certifying users like user and recruiting users like user . In some embodiments an authorization to update scoring metrics metadata performance type metadata age level metadata authoring metadata mode metadata media metadata medium metadata and error metadata of a learning application is limited to a predetermined plurality of learning application authoring users like user . In some embodiments an authorization to update language metadata of a learning application is limited to a predetermined plurality of learning application translating users . In some embodiments an authorization to update duration metadata of a learning application is limited to a predetermined plurality of learning application authoring users like user and learning application template developing users like user . In some embodiments an authorization to update subject link tag metadata of a learning application is limited to a predetermined plurality of users in any user role. In various embodiments such authorizations may be set by an administrator of modular learning system based on the user role user profile information and user preferences information of the corresponding users.

In some embodiments an authorization to update learning facility metadata of a learning application with associated learning facilities is limited to a predetermined plurality of learning facility administering users like user . In some embodiments an authorization to update sequence metadata of a learning application is limited to a predetermined plurality of learning application authoring users like user and tutoring users like user . In some embodiments an authorization to update tool metadata of a learning application with associated learning tools is limited to a predetermined plurality of tool supplying users like user . In some embodiments an authorization to update job skill metadata of a learning application is limited to a predetermined plurality of recruiting users like user . In some embodiments an authorization to update template metadata of a learning application is limited to a predetermined plurality of learning application authoring users like user and a predetermined plurality of template developing users like user . In some embodiments an authorization to update tutor metadata of a learning application with associated tutoring services is limited to a predetermined plurality of tutoring users like user . In some embodiments an authorization to update an optional learning event metadata of a learning application with associated learning workshops visits and other learning events is limited to a predetermined plurality of learning workshop organizing users like user and learning visit organizing users like user . In some embodiments the associations of application services to learning applications are enabled automatically by a metadata association module in the system . In some embodiments each learning application is associated with a subset of learning facilities in a learning facilities database . In some embodiments each learning application is further associated with a subset of learning stations of each associated learning facility. In some embodiments each learning application is associated with a subset of tutors in a tutor database . In some embodiments each learning application is associated with a subset of tools in a learning tools database .

The lifecycle of a learning application is now described according to one embodiment. Initially a learning application template developing user creates a learning application template stored in a distinct template database in a modular learning system . Next the learning application authoring user publishes learning application content stored as media metadata of the learning application . In case a template has been chosen for the application the template metadata is stored as well. The tutor metadata learning facility metadata learning tool metadata and other optional application services metadata indicating tutoring services learning facilities learning tools and other application service types associated with the learning application are dynamically updated by the corresponding tutoring users learning facility administrators tool suppliers and other application service providers. At this point the learning user may modularly select application services in a microlearning stack to purchase or perform the learning application. Next the learning user selects the learning application and identifies application services requested for purchase or performance as a consolidated stack. The approval of the purchase or performance request for learning application and particular application services in the microlearning service stack may be determined by the specific metadata of the learning application being associated with corresponding application services and other specific metadata of the learning application being compatible with the profile information and preferences of the learning user.

A purchase items database is configured for receiving storing retrieving and updating a plurality of purchase items generated by the microlearning purchase management module during each unique microlearning application or application service purchase by the plurality of learning users in learning user database .

The performance items database is configured for receiving storing retrieving and updating a plurality of performance items generated by the microlearning performance management module during each unique microlearning performance by the plurality of learning users in learning user database .

The activities items database is configured for receiving storing retrieving and updating a plurality of activities items generated by an activity monitoring module for each unique user activity for each unique user on the modular learning system . Each activity item indicates action on the modular learning system and may be associated with one or more users. The activity item may also be associated with particular user roles allowed to view information related to the activity item. In additional embodiment each activity stored in the activities items database specifies user roles permitted to access the activity and wherein the retrieved activity items are retrieved based on the viewing user s user role matching a permitted user role for activity items.

The user database is configured for temporarily receiving storing retrieving and updating identity items of each of a plurality of kinds of users from the user database during the generation of role based histories for the plurality of users in for each user role.

The user role preference module is configured for receiving storing and retrieving the kind and interface of history items for a plurality of requested user roles to be displayed to a plurality of kinds of authorized viewing users. The module is accessed by the user role validation module to validate if the viewing user s user role is the same as the user role for which the user role history is being generated. In some embodiments the history preferences are updated for some or all of the requested user roles by modular learning system . In other embodiments the user role history preferences of the requested users are considered as default preferences of the requested users with each unique requested user in the user role allowed to modify personalize and update their particular user role s history access preferences through the history settings management interface generated by the user role history interface generator and displayed on the requested user s user device . For example the learning user may modify their performance history access preferences to allow funding user to access the user s performance history while another learning user may grant access to the corresponding performance history to all funding users some recruiting users and one tutoring user on the modular learning system .

The user role validation module is configured for validating the viewing user s user role to determine if the viewing user is authorized to view the purchase history performance history and other activity history of the requested user. In some embodiments the validation module is used to determine if the viewing user is the same as the user whose purchase history performance history and other activities history is requested. In case the requested user is the same as the viewing user the user role validation module validates the role of the requested user as being the same as that of the viewing user to history items module . In case the viewing user is different from the requested user the user role validation module accesses the user database and the user role preference module to determine the requested user s user role in the modular learning system . For example a funding user who wishes to access a funded learning user s performance history in the last one year the role validation module may validate the requested user s role as a learning user and confirm the same to history items module for generation of the appropriate history items of the requested learning user to be accessed upon the requested user s authorization by the viewing funding user .

The history items module is configured for generating storing retrieving and updating a plurality of history items for the user role of each unique user whose history is requested by a viewing user on the modular learning system by accessing purchase items from database performance items from database and activities items from database . In some embodiments a plurality of history items may be generated and stored for future access by the user role history interface generator for each unique user in a user role.

The summary updation module is configured for receiving storing retrieving and updating history summary updation preferences of one or a plurality of requested users for the authorized viewing user. In some embodiments an authorized viewing user may prefer the activity history summary of requested users to be updated after predetermined intervals of time. For example a tutoring user authorized to access the performance history of ten learning users may wish to view a summary of the performance history of the learning users once an hour. In another example an independent learning facility administering user authorized to access the purchase history of twenty five learning users visiting the facility regularly may wish to view a summary of the purchase history of the learning users once in three months. The module is accessed by history items module to determine the frequency and intervals of the history items summary generation for future access upon request by the viewing user.

The activity monitoring module is configured for monitoring activities conducted on or through the modular learning system between various users on the system . These activities are stored as activities items in the activities items database . In various embodiments the activities could include new applications performed monitored reviewed funded scored published translated certified purchased sold edited as well as learning facilities set up accessed booked tutoring services learning facility access learning events access purchased and sold user profiles updated with new identity items update purchase compatibility or performance compatibility among other activities. In some embodiments the user role preferences for each viewing user s user role in module allow for access to history items relating to activities conducted by a predetermined subset of authorized requested user roles to the viewing user. For example the user role preferences of a viewing funding user may allow for access to performance histories of learning users being funded by the funding user. In some embodiments the activity monitoring module does not capture purchase or performance activities as these activities are monitored by the microlearning purchase management module and the microlearning performance management module with the items thus generated being received by the purchase items database and performance items database respectively. In some embodiments the activity monitoring module monitors activities of the each of a plurality of kinds of users on a plurality of kinds of user devices and at a plurality of kinds of associated learning facilities.

The user role history interface generator is configured for retrieving the plurality of user role history items of the requested user from the history items module and displays the same to the viewing user on a user device . In some embodiments the user role history interface generator generates and displays updated user role history interface items upon request to the viewing user on a user device by retrieving the same dynamically at predetermined intervals of time from module .

Although the role based activity history management module is described as being composed of various modules fewer or more modules e.g. History Access Preferences Module History Items Consolidation Module may comprise the module with the present configuration still falling within the scope of various embodiments.

At step the role based activity history management module requests the user role validation module to determine if the viewing user is the same as the user whose history is requested. At step the user role validation module determines if the viewing user is the same as the user whose history is requested i.e. the user is requesting his own history . If the requested user is the same as the viewing user the user role validation module validates the role of the requested user as being the same as that of the viewing user to history items module and the role based activity history management module proceeds directly to step . At step if the viewing user is different from the requested user the role validation module accesses the user database and the user role preferences module to determine the requested user s user role in the modular learning system .

At step the user role validation module determines the requested user s user role in the modular learning system by accessing the identity items of the requested user in user database and the user role items in user role preference module . If the requested user s user role cannot be validated after accessing the modules the history items display request is denied.

At step the user role history interfaces generator displays the history access request to the requested user. In some embodiments the user role preferences module accesses the activity history access preferences of the requested user to determine the kind of activity items authorized to be accessed and the kind of user roles authorized to access the requested user s activity history. In such embodiments if such access is authorized to the viewing user or viewing user role the user role preferences module may directly grant access to the requested user s activity history.

At step the user role history interface generator receives an access confirmation or access denial input from the requested user through an interface generated on a user device . If access is denied an access denied interface item may be displayed through an interface generated by user role history interface generator on the viewing user s user device . In an embodiment the access to activity item is based on default user role history preference.

At step if access is manually granted automatically granted or when the viewing user is the same as the requested user the history items module retrieves purchase items performance items and other activities items for the requested user by accessing the purchase items database performance items database and activities items database .

At step the history items module generates history items of the requested user for the viewing user based on items retrieved in the previous step and user role preferences for the requested user s particular user role. At step the user role history interface generator retrieves the history items from history items module and displays the corresponding requested user s history interface items through the preferred viewing user role interface on the viewing user s user device .

Although the method for generating role based activity histories in a modular learning system environment is described as being composed of various steps fewer or more steps e.g. Generate History Items Summary of Predetermined Plurality of Requested Users Receive History Access Preferences from Requested Users may comprise the method with the present configuration still falling within the scope of various embodiments.

Specifically shows a diagrammatic representation of a machine in the example form of a computer system within which instructions e.g. software for causing the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein may be executed. In alternative embodiments the machine operates as a standalone device or may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the machine may operate in the capacity of a server machine or a client machine in a server client network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment.

The machine may be a server computer a client computer a personal computer PC a tablet PC a set top box STB a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular telephone a smartphone a web appliance a network router switch or bridge or any machine capable of executing instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. Further while only a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU a digital signal processor DSP one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs one or more radio frequency integrated circuits RFICs or any combination of these a main memory and a static memory which are configured to communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a graphics display unit e.g. a plasma display panel PDP a liquid crystal display LCD a projector or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system may also include alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a trackball a joystick a motion sensor or other pointing instrument a storage unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device which also are configured to communicate via the bus .

The storage unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions e.g. software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory or within the processor e.g. within a processor s cache memory during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media. The instructions e.g. software may be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

While machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database or associated caches and servers able to store instructions e.g. instructions . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing instructions e.g. instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies disclosed herein. The term machine readable medium includes but not be limited to data repositories in the form of solid state memories optical media and magnetic media.

The modular learning system may be one or more servers in which one or more methods disclosed herein are performed. The processor may be a microprocessor a state machine an application specific integrated circuit a field programmable gate array etc. e.g. Intel Pentium processor . The main memory may be a dynamic random access memory and or a primary memory of the modular learning system . The static memory may be a hard drive a flash drive and or other memory information associated with the modular learning system .

The bus may be an interconnection between various circuits and or structures of the modular learning system . The video display may provide graphical representation of information on the modular learning system . The alphanumeric input device may be a keypad keyboard and or any other input device. The cursor control device may be a pointing device such as a mouse.

The storage unit may be a hard drive a storage system and or other longer term storage subsystem. The signal generation device may be a bios and or a functional operating system of the modular learning system . The network interface device may be a device that may perform interface functions such as code conversion protocol conversion and or buffering required for communication to and from a network e.g. the network of . The machine readable medium may provide instructions on which any of the methods disclosed herein may be performed. The instructions may provide source code and or data code to the processor to enable any one or more operations disclosed herein. For example the modular learning system may be stored in the form of instructions on a storage medium such as the main memory and or the machine readable medium such as compact disk.

In an embodiment the invention further describes a non transitory computer readable storage medium having tangibly embodied thereon a program of instructions executable by a processor e.g. the modular learning system for performing a method for generating role based histories in a modular learning system as illustrated in .

The role based activity histories allow users to identify and select histories of activity in the modular learning system related to the user and the user s role. The histories of activity can be used by various users for different purposes. For example a learning facility may use history of accesses to the learning facility to determine whether to expand or contract availability of the learning facility. A funding user may request performance history data for learning applications to determine which learning applications to fund and the system may identify historical information of the learning applications that best improve learner performance in order to select learning applications to fund. In addition the type of history generated for each user role may differ which allows each user to view a customized view of activities on the system. These customized views allow users to see information presented in a way that is useful to the particular user role of the user and allows for protecting private information. In some embodiments the private information is anonymized in order to allow display to certain types of users while allowing for meaningful history review. For example a funding user may seek to determine which learning applications provide better scores for learning users. The learning users performance scores may be anonymized before presentation to the funding user to protect the learning user identities. Alternately the funding user may seek to actively promote certain applications within the modular learning system in an attempt to increase expertise in a particular area. For example a local trade business council may have a funding role and may seek to increase the number of trained machine operators in order to ensure adequate supply of skilled machinists for employers at a local industrial park. The funding user here the local trade counsel can fund applications with appropriate online facility and tutor resources. These can matched by the modular learning system with learners having the requisite role e.g. some prior training history as identified by the modular learning system and that would be interested in working through the applications and courses to get trained.

Throughout this specification plural instances may implement modules operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate modules in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or module. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single module may be implemented as separate modules. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter herein.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including functionality implemented in computing logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms for example as illustrated in . Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors e.g. processor that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. application program interfaces APIs . 

In another embodiment the microlearning purchase and performance interface provided by the modular learning system can be accessed over a local area network intranet or virtual private network accessible to a limited plurality of user devices at a preschool school college university educational board professional standards authority coaching class a company HR department training department or at a training organization through a user device.

In another embodiment the microlearning purchase and performance interface provided by the modular learning system can be accessed over a wide area network General Packet Radio Service network an Enhanced Data for Global Evolution network a 3G telecommunications network a 4G LTE telecommunications network or other telecommunications network through a user device.

The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be located in a single geographic location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm . In other example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be distributed across a number of geographic locations.

Some portions of this specification are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on data stored as bits or binary digital signals within a machine memory e.g. a computer memory . These algorithms or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. As used herein an algorithm is a self consistent sequence of operations or similar processing leading to a desired result. In this context algorithms and operations involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically but not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored accessed transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated by a machine. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals using words such as data content bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. These words however are merely convenient labels and are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities.

Although the present embodiments have been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the various embodiments. For example the various devices modules databases etc. described herein may be enabled and operated using hardware circuitry e.g. complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS based logic circuitry firmware software and or any combination of hardware firmware and or software e.g. embodied in a machine readable medium .

Unless specifically stated otherwise discussions herein using words such as processing computing calculating determining presenting displaying or the like may refer to actions or processes of a machine e.g. a computer that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic magnetic or optical quantities within one or more memories e.g. volatile memory non volatile memory or a combination thereof registers or other machine modules that receive store transmit or display information.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. For example some embodiments may be described using the term coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and modules of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the invention. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

According to the embodiments described in various methods and electric structures may be embodied using transistors logic gates and electrical circuits e.g. Application Specific Integrated Circuitry and or in Digital Signal Processor circuitry . For example the purchase management module performance management module and other modules of may be enabled using a purchase management circuit a performance management circuit and other circuits using one or more of the technologies described herein. In addition it will be appreciated that the various operations processes and methods disclosed herein may be embodied in a machine readable medium and or a machine accessible medium compatible with a data processing system e.g. a server and may be performed in any order. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

Upon reading this disclosure those of skill in the art will appreciate still additional alternative structural and functional designs for a system and a process for managing the purchase and performance of learning applications and associated application services in a microlearning stack through the disclosed principles herein. Thus while particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are not limited to the precise construction and modules disclosed herein. Various modifications changes and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope defined in the appended claims.

