---

title: Push content to a currently utilized device among client devices
abstract: In one example, a system includes an authentication server that is configured to receive an authentication request for a primary application, provide time-based authentication credentials for the primary application, receive an updated authentication request for the primary application, wherein the updated authentication request includes a client device identifier (ID) corresponding to a client device from which the authentication request is received, and transmit the client device ID; the system may further include a push server that is configured to receive the transmitted client device ID, and push an update to the client device having the client device ID.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09525588&OS=09525588&RS=09525588
owner: EMPIRE TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT LLC
number: 09525588
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120814
---
This Application is the U.S. National Stage filing under 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT Application Ser. No. PCT US12 50715 filed on Aug. 14 2012. The disclosure of the PCT Application is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The embodiments described herein pertain generally to pushing content to an appropriate client device.

The internet age has spawned the unprecedented development of communication devices. Whereas even in the latter half of the 20century it was considered a luxury to have just one computer in a home it is now common for an individual to have multiple client devices that facilitate web based communications services. Often the communications services offered on each of the personal client devices are redundant with respect to the other client devices.

Further the development trend for web based i.e. cloud based applications is for content e.g. messages notifications updates etc. related to such applications to be push based. That is service providers for these applications utilize a push service with push APIs application programming interfaces for delivering the content to the user s client devices. Thus when a user is logged onto multiple devices content is pushed to all devices on which the user is logged on.

In one example embodiment a system includes an authentication server that is configured to at least receive an authentication request for a primary application provide time based authentication credentials for the primary application receive an updated authentication request for the primary application wherein the updated authentication request includes a client device identifier ID corresponding to a client device from which the authentication request is received and transmit the client device ID the system may further include a push server corresponding to the primary application that is configured to receive the transmitted client device ID and push an update corresponding to the primary application to the client device having the client device ID.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part of the description. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. Further unless otherwise noted the description of each successive drawing may reference features from one or more of the previous drawings to provide clearer context and a more substantive explanation of the current example embodiment. Still the example embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the drawings may be arranged substituted combined separated and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.

Further still in the following detailed description reference is also made to multisite authentication and authorization which will be referred to as multisite authentication throughout. Non limiting examples of websites and or web based applications that implement multisite authentication include Facebook Foursquare Google Microsoft LinkedIn and other web portals and social networking services. The aforementioned websites and their corresponding web based applications may be hosted on a client device via a browser or software application respectively and both access content via the internet i.e. web. Thus because of such similarities content providing websites and web based applications may be collectively and or alternatively referred to as application or applications throughout the present description unless otherwise specified or further explanation is required.

User authentication implemented on such applications may be utilized by other applications that do not implement multisite authentication. That is a user identifier ID used to authorize a user on a primary application that implements multisite authorization may be delegated to also authorize the same user on a secondary application. According to at least one alternative embodiment the user ID may be utilized to authorize the user via an authentication service that may also implement multisite authorization. Thus on a broader scale the primary application may be considered to be an authentication service.

Non limiting examples of multisite authentication protocols utilized by content providing websites and or web based applications i.e. applications such as Facebook Foursquare Google Microsoft LinkedIn etc. include OAuth open standard for authorization OAuth 2.0 OpenID and subsequent versions thereof. By these protocols when a user first submits a user ID to log onto a primary application that implements multisite authentication a multisite authentication server corresponding to the primary application supplies e.g. a username and password token to one or more secondary applications corresponding to separate service providers. The tokens received from the multisite authentication server may include a parameter indicating the expiration time for the token. Thus the one or more secondary applications do not have to request or retrieve another authorization token from the multisite authentication server until the token expires. Accordingly as long as the user remains logged onto his her respective multisite authentication account the multisite authentication server works for the one or more secondary applications.

Further multisite authentication protocols may dynamically and variably set the frequency for the expiration parameter. Whatever frequency is set for the expiration parameter a multisite authentication server may receive an updated authentication request from a user which includes at least a client device ID upon the lapsing of the time set by the expiration parameter.

As described herein applications i.e. websites and or web based applications may be referenced as being of either a pull model or a push model. Pull applications are known to be applications for which new content e.g. messages notifications updates etc. is requested of a web based server from a website or application running on a client device. Push applications are known to be applications for which new content is pushed to the website or application running on a client device as the new content is made available without a request therefore having to be made.

Client devices and may respectively refer to a processor based electronic device on which is hosted an instance of a browser that is logged onto a website and or an instance of a corresponding web based application. In accordance with the embodiments described herein client device may be regarded as a first client device on which a user has registered with at least a primary application that implements multisite authentication and authorization and client device may be regarded as a currently utilized client device on which the same user has registered with one or more applications for which user registration is based on a token received from a multisite authentication server corresponding to the primary application. Although depicts only two client devices both assumed to be under the ownership and or control of a common user the embodiments of updating a currently utilized device are not so limited. Rather the embodiments are intended to cover scenarios in which a common user ID utilizes multiple client devices unbounded by quantity.

Regardless of ownership and or control the website or web based application for Application A Application B first and current instances of Application C and N first and current instances of Application D and N Application E and Application F on client devices and respectively are authenticated for the same user ID on one or more multisite authentication servers corresponding to the aforementioned primary application.

Further any one of Application A Application B Application C or Application D hosted on client device may be regarded as the primary application for which the user is authenticated by that primary application submitting at least a user ID to multisite authentication server . In that regard any of the remainder of aforementioned Application A Application B Application C Application D Application E or Application F on either of client devices or may be regarded as a secondary or dependent application for which authentication for the user is implemented utilizing the same user ID on multisite authentication server . Further the primary application for which the user is authenticated is not required to be explicitly running for the secondary or dependent application to utilize the same user ID on multisite authentication server . That is in at least one alternative embodiment a user does not have to log on to the primary application during a session in order for the primary application to provide multisite authorization.

As depicted in and described herein Application A and Application B hosted on client device are pull applications and the first instance of Application C and the first instance of Application D hosted on client device are push applications. Further the current instance of Application C N and the current instance of Application D N hosted on client device are push applications and Application E and Application F hosted on client device are pull applications.

Communication link may refer to a communication standard or protocol to implement data transmissions between authentication server and push server . Thus communication link may refer to any hard wired connection e.g. fiber optic wires cable phone lines etc. with fiber optic wires being favored in at least some embodiments to handle voluminous data flow to and from authentication server and push server both of which are likely implemented as large volume data centers. However in at least some alternative embodiments communication link may further refer to one or more mobile communications technologies e.g. GSM CDMA etc. depending upon the technologies supported by particular wireless service providers to whose services client devices and and the web based service providers corresponding to authentication server and push server may be assigned or subscribed. Further communication link may be implemented utilizing non cellular technologies such as wireless local area network WLAN or IEEE 802.11 Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX Bluetooth and other analog and digital wireless voice and data transmission technologies.

Client devices and may be configured to transmit and receive data over communication link between authentication server and push server by further connecting to a mobile communications network provided by a wireless service provider not shown . Client devices and may respectively be implemented as a mobile or portable electronic device such as a mobile phone cell phone smartphone personal data assistant PDA a personal media player device an application specific device or a hybrid device that includes any of the above functions. Client devices and may also respectively be implemented as a personal computer in any of a tablet laptop computer or non laptop computer configuration which may be connected to the aforementioned mobile communications network or alternatively to a wired network.

The aforementioned wireless service provider for implementing communications for client devices and may also be known as a mobile network carrier wireless carrier or even cellular company. Regardless of the alternate reference the wireless service provider may provide services for mobile communications subscribers.

Client devices and may further include an operating system OS configuration of various components or modules e.g. implemented by a framework of hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. Such software and or firmware may include one or more computer readable media including but not limited to Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC or Customer Specific Integrated Circuit CSIC . The various components or modules corresponding to the aforementioned OS configuration may include but are not limited to the aforementioned browser and Application A Application B Application C Application D Application E and Application F . However it is noted that the aforementioned applications may also be implemented separate from the OS on one or more of client devices and .

Multisite authentication server may refer to one or more servers hosted by or for a web based service provider that implements multisite authentication and authorization. The aforementioned web based service provider may refer to a web or cloud based storage and dissemination platform owned and or operated by a third party service provider. The web based service provider may include a framework of hardware software firmware or any combination thereof to host data services to which subscribers may subscribe or register.

Multisite authentication server may be configured designed and or programmed to receive an authentication request for a user on a primary application i.e. any of the aforementioned Application A Application B Application C or Application D hosted on client device which implements multisite authentication provides time based authentication credentials for the user on the primary application and further receives updated authentication requests for the user on the primary application when the authentication token expires. Any authentication request including an initial authentication request and any subsequent updated authentication request for the user on the primary application may include at least a user ID and a client device identifier ID corresponding to the client device from which a current authentication request is received. The client device ID may also be derived from inferred data about a device such as operating system browser and or plugins to fingerprint the device without the transmission of a specific declarative device identification ID. The multisite authentication server may be further configured to transmit at least the client device ID to push server .

Buffer may refer to a buffer or memory corresponding to authentication server . Buffer may store therein at least client device IDs e.g. IP addresses corresponding to the user ID of every user who is currently authenticated on the applications for which multisite authentication server has provided authentication. As described herein the client device IDs stored in buffer may be utilized to inform push server of the client device ID for client device which is the most recently authorized one of client devices and .

Push server may refer to one or more servers hosted by or for a web based provider that pushes content e.g. messages notifications updates etc. to a corresponding website or application running on a client device. In accordance with the example embodiments described herein push server may push web based content including messages notifications updates etc. to either of push applications Application C and Application D on either of client devices and .

Push server may be configured designed and or programmed to receive the client device ID received from authentication server which may be included in the authentication request or subsequent updated authentication request for the user on the primary application thus identifying client device as the appropriate client device from which the current authentication request is received. Push server may be further configured to then push content e.g. a message notification update etc. to the appropriate instances of push applications Application C N or Application D N running on client device identified by the received client device ID.

Device ID storage may refer to a buffer or memory corresponding to push server that pushes content to either or both of instances of push applications Application C and Application D that are authenticated by multisite authentication server . Thus push server pushes the next message notification update etc. to the instances of push applications Application C N or Application D N on client device identified as the currently utilized client device by the client device ID most recently received and stored on device ID storage .

However alternative embodiments may contemplate push server pushing the next message notification update etc. to all instances of push applications Application C and Application D though in distinctive manners so as to reduce or even eliminate any inconvenience to the user caused by redundant content on multiple client devices.

Credentials component may refer to a component or module that is configured designed and or programmed to receive a user authentication request for a primary application. The user authentication request may include at least a user ID and a client device ID.

Credentials component may be further configured designed and or programmed to receive updated user authentication requests for the primary application when an instance of the primary application or even one or more secondary applications for which an authentication token was given is instantiated used or activated on a different client device.

Authorization component may refer to a component or module that is configured designed and or programmed to provide time based authentication credentials i.e. tokens for the user on the primary application and one or more secondary applications in response to the requests received by credentials component .

Transactional component may refer to a component or module that is configured designed and or programmed to transmit the received client device ID included in a current authentication request to push server .

Transactional component may be further configured designed and or programmed to transmit to push server client device IDs corresponding to a respective user ID for one or more client devices from which user authentication requests for the primary application have been received. Such client device IDs may be accumulated by quantity e.g. the five 5 most recent client device IDs or by time e.g. the client device IDs received over the past 30 minutes. User IDs and their related client device IDs may also be retrieved actively e.g. by an access API. Accordingly push server may be capable of pushing messages notifications and updates to all of the identified client devices. However the present embodiments of updating a currently utilized device may contemplate push server being configured designed and or programmed to push messages notifications and updates to the most recently identified client device in an unread format and to the previously identified client devices in a read format the latter may occur at a different time.

Thus shows an example configuration of a multisite authentication server that facilitates pushing content to only a most recently identified client device or pushing content in a highlighted manner to the most recently identified client device while also pushing the content to previously identified client devices in a deemphasized manner.

ID receiving component may refer to a component or module that is configured designed and or programmed to receive by active retrieval or passive message reception a client device ID from authentication server . The active retrieval may refer to a request for a client device ID via an API. In accordance with the embodiments of updating a currently utilized device ID receiving component may be configured to receive a client device ID from a most recently identified client device which is client device in the embodiments described herein. However in accordance with at least some alternative embodiments ID receiving component may also receive a client device ID from a previously identified client device i.e. client device if the client device ID for such client device was received within a predefined quantity of previously identified client devices e.g. the five 5 most recently identified client devices or within a predetermined amount of time e.g. within the past 30 minutes.

Content push component may refer to a component or module that is configured designed and or programmed to push or deliver content e.g. messages notifications and or updates to at least the client device for which a client device ID has most recently been received by ID receiving component .

Further content push component may be further configured designed or programmed to push content in a highlighted format e.g. unread to the client device for which a client device has most recently been received i.e. client device and to at least one client device in a deemphasized manner e.g. read format for which a client device ID was previously received i.e. client device .

Thus shows an example configuration of a push server that pushes content to a currently utilized client device in such a manner that a user thereof is not burdened with content in a redundant format on multiple client devices.

Block Authentication Server Receive Authentication Request may refer to credentials component receiving a user authentication request for a corresponding primary application from among Application A Application B Application C and Application D running on client device . Processing may proceed to block .

Block Authentication Server Provide Authentication Credentials may refer to authorization component providing time limited or time logged authentication credentials i.e. tokens for the user on at least one or more of the secondary applications in response to the requests received by credentials component . If for example Application C is the primary application that implements multisite authentication via multisite authentication server the user is also authenticated and authorized on secondary applications Application A Application B and Application D via Application C all of which are given tokens by multisite authentication server .

At least some of example embodiments described herein for updating a currently utilized device may contemplate a push application serving as the primary application by which multisite authentication may be implemented. Thus the embodiments described herein are not to be considered limiting. It is certainly feasible for a pull application e.g. Application A or Application B to be implemented as a multisite authentication application. Regardless processing may proceed to block .

Block Authentication Server Receive Updated Authentication Request may refer to credentials component receiving updated user authentication requests for the primary application e.g. Application C N when an instance of the primary application or even one or more secondary applications for which an authentication token was given is instantiated or activated on a different client device.

Consider the depiction of configuration in by which the user actively uses client device for which pull applications Application A and Application B and push applications Application C and Application D are authenticated by multisite authentication server . As the user takes up client device the user remains authenticated on push applications Application C N and Application D N via multisite authentication server . However the user has not yet been authenticated for either of Application E and Application F. Thus when the user instantiates any of Application C N Application D N Application E or Application F on client device an updated user authentication request for the user on the primary application e.g. Application C is received on authorization component of multisite authentication server the same may apply when the user instantiates either of Application C N and or Application D N on client device . The updated user authentication request includes at least a client device ID for client device upon which the respective application is instantiated. Processing may proceed to block .

Block Authentication Server Transmit Client Device ID may refer to transactional component transmitting to push server one or more client device IDs corresponding to a respective user ID for all client devices from which user authentication requests have been received. As indicated previously such client device IDs may be stored based on quantity of client device IDs or by timing of receipt of the respective client device IDs. Thus as a minimum block includes transactional component transmitting a client device ID for client device to push server . Block may further include transactional component transmitting a client device ID for client device and any other client devices on which the primary application e.g. Application C and any dependent secondary applications have been previously authenticated in terms of either quantity or time as described above.

Thus when a user s activity on one of multiple devices on which the user has been authenticated the multisite authentication server is so notified. Therefore it is noted that in at least some embodiments authentication of the user s activity on a device does not have to be associated with any application. Further when the user newly instantiates Application E or Application F or even Application C N and or Application D N on client device multisite authentication server may authenticate Application E authenticate Application F authenticate Application C N and or authenticate Application D N. Processing may proceed to block .

Block Push Server Receive Client Device ID may refer to ID receiving component receiving one or more client device IDs from authentication server for storage on device ID storage . ID receiving component is configured designed and or programmed to receive a client device ID from a most recently identified client device i.e. client device . But in accordance with at least some alternative embodiments ID receiving component may also receive a client device ID associated with a previously identified client device i.e. client device if the client device ID for such client device was received within a predefined quantity of previously identified client devices or within a predetermined amount of time. Processing may proceed to block .

Block Push Server Push Update to Currently Used Device may refer to push server pushing content e.g. messages notifications and or updates to client device . That is having received the client device ID for the client device from which an authorization request has most recently been received push server is configured designed and or programmed to push content to the corresponding client device e.g. to one of the secondary applications corresponding thereto. Application C N on client device receives push notification and or Application D N on client device receives push notification .

Pragmatically by the example embodiments described herein the user may be spared the inconvenience of having the same content pushed to the same application that the user has running on multiple client devices.

However because the user may toggle between client devices sometimes within minutes of each other example embodiments of updating a currently utilized device may also contemplate block referring to push server pushing content to client device in a highlighted manner e.g. not read format or in a configuration that triggers an active notification while also pushing the same content to client device in a deemphasized manner e.g. read format or in a way that does not actively display a notification.

Further with regard to the different formats in which content may be pushed the content pushed to client device may include a comprehensive notification of all content that has been updated since the user s activity was last acknowledged on any device. Thus the user receives all updated content that may have been missed while in transit from one device to another without having to dismiss the same notification twice on separate devices.

Thus shows an example processing flow for pushing content to only active client devices or pushing content to multiple devices in a manner that reduces a user s inconvenience.

More particularly shows an illustrative computing embodiment in which any of the processes and sub processes described herein may be implemented as computer readable instructions stored on a computer readable medium. The computer readable instructions may for example be executed by a processor of a device as referenced herein having a network element and or any other device corresponding thereto particularly as applicable to the applications and or programs described above corresponding to the configuration for updating a currently utilized device.

In a very basic configuration a computing device may typically include one or more processors and a system memory . A memory bus may be used for communicating between processor and system memory .

Depending on the desired configuration processor may be of any type including but not limited to a microprocessor P a microcontroller C a digital signal processor DSP or any combination thereof. Processor may include one or more levels of caching such as a level one cache and a level two cache a processor core and registers . An example processor core may include an arithmetic logic unit ALU a floating point unit FPU a digital signal processing core DSP Core or any combination thereof. An example memory controller may also be used with processor or in some implementations memory controller may be an internal part of processor .

Depending on the desired configuration system memory may be of any type including but not limited to volatile memory such as RAM non volatile memory such as ROM flash memory etc. or any combination thereof. System memory may include an operating system one or more applications and program data .

Application may be configured to transmit or receive identification information pertaining to client devices and or verify or validate such identifying data and transmit device data as described previously with respect to . Further application may be configured to detect the opening of a browser to a website and or the activation or instantiation of a web based application and implement the logic for transmitting a client device ID to authentication server . Program data may include a table which may be useful for implementing actuation of appropriate components or modules as described herein.

System memory is an example of computer storage media. Computer storage media may include but not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which may be used to store the desired information and which may be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

The network communication link may be one example of a communication media. Communication media may typically be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any information delivery media. A modulated data signal may be a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF microwave infrared IR and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein may include both storage media and communication media.

There is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. There are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein may be implemented e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle may vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes for system configuration via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. In one embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented in integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a CD a DVD a digital tape a computer memory etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. .

Those skilled in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to describe devices and or processes in the fashion set forth herein and thereafter use engineering practices to integrate such described devices and or processes into data processing systems. That is at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into a data processing system via a reasonable amount of experimentation. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a typical data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device a memory such as volatile and non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers graphical user interfaces and applications programs one or more interaction devices such as a touch pad or screen and or control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing position and or velocity control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities. A typical data processing system may be implemented utilizing any suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in data computing communication and or network computing communication systems.

The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely examples and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically interacting and or logically interactable components.

Lastly with respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to embodiments containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers means at least two recitations or two or more recitations. Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that various embodiments of the present disclosure have been described herein for purposes of illustration and that various modifications may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. Accordingly the various embodiments disclosed herein are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

