---

title: Fact correction and completion during document drafting
abstract: A method for fact correction and completion during document drafting. The method includes receiving a first user input comprising text being added to an electronic document and initiating a fact correction mode. The fact correction mode includes parsing the text to identify a factual proposition and determining the accuracy of the factual proposition. If the factual proposition is inaccurate, the mode includes displaying a visual indication of the inaccuracy of the factual proposition; receiving a second user input comprising an indication selecting the inaccurate factual proposition; displaying a menu that includes a correction element wherein the correction element is based on an accurate factual proposition related to the inaccurate factual proposition; receiving a third user input comprising an indication selecting the correction element; and modifying the electronic document by replacing at least a portion of the inaccurate factual proposition with at least a portion of the accurate factual proposition.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09495341&OS=09495341&RS=09495341
owner: GOOGLE INC.
number: 09495341
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121218
---
Electronic documents can include a variety of factual propositions. Each factual proposition can be associated with at least one entity or object of interest. Example entities include people places things and events. Each factual proposition can also include at least one attribute the attribute describing the type of factual proposition being made. Example attributes include a name of a person and the population of a place. Each factual proposition can also include at least one value the value describing an attribute.

One example entity based factual proposition Mahatma Gandhi was an Indian proponent of pacifism includes the attribute name of a person having the value Mahatma Gandhi as associated with the entity Indian proponent of pacifism. As another example the factual proposition San Antonio has a population of 1.4 million includes the attribute population of a place having the value 1.4 million as associated with the entity San Antonio. In addition to being entity based factual propositions can also be formulaic e.g. scientific or mathematical equations.

When drafting electronic documents the drafter or author of the electronic document can be unaware of a value that describes an attribute or a number or symbol that completes a formula in a factual proposition. The drafter can also make mistakes in drafting by including a value in the text entered into an electronic document that incorrectly describes an attribute in the factual proposition.

In one implementation a computer implemented method is disclosed. The method includes receiving at a computing device a first user input comprising text being added to an electronic document and initiating a fact correction mode. The fact correction mode includes parsing the text to identify a factual proposition and determining the accuracy of the factual proposition. If the factual proposition is inaccurate the fact correction mode further includes outputting for display a visual indication of the inaccuracy of the factual proposition and receiving at the computing device a second user input comprising an indication selecting the inaccurate factual proposition. The fact correction mode further includes outputting for display a menu that includes a correction element wherein the correction element is based on an accurate factual proposition related to the inaccurate factual proposition receiving at the computing device a third user input comprising an indication selecting the correction element and modifying the electronic document by replacing at least a portion of the inaccurate factual proposition with at least a portion of the accurate factual proposition.

In another implementation a computer implemented method is disclosed. The method includes receiving at a computing device a first user input comprising text being added to an electronic document and initiating a fact completion mode. The fact completion mode includes parsing the text to identify an incomplete factual proposition and determining a missing portion for the incomplete factual proposition. The fact completion mode further includes outputting for display a visual indication of the incomplete factual proposition and receiving at the computing device a second user input comprising an indication selecting the incomplete factual proposition. The fact completion mode further includes outputting for display a menu that includes a completion element wherein the completion element is based on the missing portion of the incomplete factual proposition receiving at the computing device a third user input comprising an indication selecting the completion element and modifying the electronic document by adding text related to the missing portion to the incomplete factual proposition.

In another implementation a computing device is disclosed including a display an input device one or more processors for controlling the operations of the computing device and a memory for storing data and program instructions used by the one or more processors. The one or more processors are configured to execute instructions stored in the memory to receive a first user input comprising text being added to an electronic document and initiate a fact correction mode. The fact correction mode includes parsing the text to identify a factual proposition and determining the accuracy of the factual proposition. If the factual proposition is inaccurate the fact correction mode further includes outputting for display a visual indication of the inaccuracy of the factual proposition and receiving at the computing device a second user input comprising an indication selecting the inaccurate factual proposition. The fact correction mode further includes outputting for display a menu that includes a correction element wherein the correction element is based on an accurate factual proposition related to the inaccurate factual proposition receiving at the computing device a third user input comprising an indication selecting the correction element and modifying the electronic document by replacing at least a portion of the inaccurate factual proposition with at least a portion of the accurate factual proposition.

In the fact correction and completion system and methods described here an electronic document can be analyzed during the drafting stage to identify factual propositions using a fact correction mode or a fact completion mode. The fact correction mode allows a drafter of the electronic document to investigate the accuracy of factual propositions and replace inaccurate portions of factual propositions with accurate statements. The fact completion mode allows the drafter of the electronic document to identify the missing portions of incomplete factual propositions. The fact correction mode and fact completion mode can assist the drafter of the electronic document in verifying factual propositions discovering other relevant factual propositions to include in the document and improving overall document quality and comprehensiveness.

The CPU in the computing device can be a conventional central processing unit. Alternatively the CPU can be any other type of device or multiple devices capable of manipulating or processing information now existing or hereafter developed. Although the disclosed embodiments can be practiced with a single processor as shown e.g. CPU advantages in speed and efficiency can be achieved using more than one processor.

The memory in the computing device can be a random access memory device RAM . Any other suitable type of storage device can be used as the memory . The memory can include code and data that is accessed by the CPU using a bus . The memory can also include an operating system and installed applications the installed applications including programs that permit the CPU to perform the methods described here. For example the installed applications can include the fact correction and fact completion applications described in . The computing device can also include additional storage which can for example be a memory card external memory a flash drive or any other form of suitable computer readable medium. Because the installed applications including the fact correction and fact completion applications can contain a significant amount of information they can be stored in whole or in part in the secondary storage and loaded into the memory as needed for processing.

The computing device can include one or more output devices such as display . The display can be a liquid crystal display LCD a cathode ray tube CRT or any other type of display that allows output to be presented to a user for example in response to receiving a video signal. The computing device can also include an input such as a keyboard a mouse a touch sensitive device or a gesture sensitive input device that can receive user inputs and can output signals or data indicative of the user inputs to the CPU .

Although depicts the CPU and the memory of the computing device as being integrated into a single unit other configurations can be utilized. The operations of the CPU can be distributed across multiple machines each machine having one or more of processors which can be coupled directly or across a local area or other network. The memory can be distributed across multiple machines such as network based memory or memory in multiple machines performing the operations of computing device . Although depicted here as a single bus the bus of the computing device can be composed of multiple buses. Further the secondary storage can be directly coupled to the other components of the computing device or can be accessed via a network and can comprise a single integrated unit such as a memory card or multiple units such as multiple memory cards. The computing device can thus be implemented in a wide variety of configurations.

The user interface of also includes features indicating that a fact correction mode has been initiated. The fact correction mode can be initiated automatically upon creation of the electronic document. The fact correction mode can also be initiated by selecting an indicator during document drafting or can occur automatically upon entry of a sufficient amount of text into the electronic document for example the entry of a complete sentence. After the fact correction mode is initiated the text within the electronic document can be parsed to identify one or more factual propositions. In the example shown in a factual proposition is identified that includes the text the ball has always been between nine and 9 inches in circumference. In this example factual proposition includes the entity baseball attribute circumference and value between nine and 9 inches. 

The fact correction mode can also include determining the accuracy of the factual proposition . The accuracy can be determined by comparing the factual proposition to reference factual propositions from external sources such as sources commonly found on the Internet. One or more attributes from the factual proposition and a plurality of reference attributes from reference factual propositions can be derived using natural language processing and transformed to base forms. A similarity score can be determined by comparing the one or more base form attributes to the plurality of reference base form attributes.

If the similarity score is above a threshold value one or more values associated with the one or more attributes of the factual proposition can be compared to the plurality of reference values associated with the plurality of reference attributes of the reference factual propositions to identify differences. If one or more values of the factual proposition differ from one or more reference values of the reference factual propositions the factual proposition can be flagged as inaccurate. The flag for inaccuracy can be a visual indication. Visual indicators can include coloring highlighting and underlining of text. In the example in visual indicator is an underline beneath factual proposition the ball has always been between nine and 9 inches in circumference. This visual indicator highlights factual proposition as inaccurate.

The fact correction mode can also include receiving a user input comprising an indication selecting the inaccurate factual proposition . For example the drafter of the electronic document can use a mouse to click or hover over the inaccurate factual proposition . Once at least a portion of the inaccurate factual proposition has been selected a menu can be displayed to the drafter. The menu can be displayed within as a subset of or external to the user interface . In the example of the menu is displayed on the right side of user interface and overlaps the body of the electronic document.

The menu can include a correction element. The correction element can be based on an accurate factual proposition related to the inaccurate factual proposition . For example the inaccurate factual proposition can be used to structure one or more Internet search queries related to the text included in the inaccurate factual proposition . The results from the search queries can be the source of suggested text to correct the inaccurate factual proposition . In the example in the correction element includes a Change to heading and the suggested text 9 and 9 inches. 

The menu can also include a cancel element. The cancel element can be selected to remove the menu including the correction element and the cancel element from the display. For example the cancel element can be an Ignore button . If the document drafter selects the Ignore button the menu can be removed from the user interface or the fact correction mode can skip factual proposition and process another factual proposition.

The menu can also include a reference element. The reference element can include a portion or snippet of the accurate factual proposition used to provide the text within the correction element. In the example in the reference element includes reference link From WebAnswer Example and the text snippet By definition a baseball is 9 to 9.25 inches or 22.85 to 23.495 centimeters in circumference. The drafter of the electronic document can select the reference link within the reference element to be directed to the source of the information in the correction element.

The menu can also include a research element. The research element can be selected to allow the drafter of the electronic document to investigate additional information related to the factual proposition . For example the research element can be visually indicated using a research link More References as shown in . If the drafter selects the research link another user interface not shown can be presented allowing the drafter to view additional materials related to the factual proposition or the menu can be expanded to include snippets from at least some additional materials.

The fact correction mode can also include receiving a user input comprising an indication selecting the correction element. In the example in the drafter or author can select the Change button . The electronic document can then be modified by replacing at least a portion of the inaccurate factual proposition with at least a portion of the accurate factual proposition. For example once the drafter selects the Change button from within the correction element the text nine and 9 inches can be replaced with the text 9 and 9 inches. If no additional factual propositions within the electronic document are flagged as inaccurate the fact correction mode can end and any changes made to the electronic document can be saved.

The user interface of also includes features indicating that a fact completion mode has been initiated. The fact completion mode can be initiated automatically upon creation of the electronic document. The fact completion mode can also be initiated by selecting an indicator during document drafting for example by executing a keyboard shortcut or can occur automatically upon entry of an unknown indicator such as double star indicator . For example if the drafter of the electronic document about Ms. Bachchan enters the text the fact completion mode can be initiated.

After the fact completion mode is initiated the text within the electronic document can be parsed to identify an incomplete factual proposition. In the example shown in an incomplete factual proposition can be identified that includes the person entity Winner of Miss World Pageant associated with the name attribute having a value Aishwarya Rai and the date attribute having a missing value that is a value represented by the double star indicator .

The fact completion mode can also include determining the missing portion for the incomplete factual proposition. The missing portion can be determined by comparing the incomplete factual proposition to reference factual propositions from external sources such as sources commonly found on the Internet. One or more attributes from the incomplete factual proposition and a plurality of reference attributes from the reference factual propositions can be derived using natural language processing and transformed to base forms. A similarity score can be determined by comparing the one or more base form attributes to the plurality of reference base form attributes.

If the similarity score is above a threshold value the attributes and entities of the incomplete factual proposition can be compared to the plurality of reference attributes and reference entities of the reference factual propositions. If the entities and attributes of the incomplete factual proposition are similar to the reference entities and reference attributes of the reference factual propositions the missing portion of the incomplete factual proposition can be identified as a reference value from at least one of the reference factual propositions.

For example the incomplete factual proposition in is that Aishwarya Rai Bachchan was the winner of the Miss World pageant in the representing an unknown date. An Internet based search query a query against databases including literary and periodical content or any other type of query can be run to identify sources that provide reference factual propositions related to the incomplete factual proposition. One or more sources could include the reference factual proposition that Aishwarya Rai won the Miss World Beauty Pageant in 1994. The reference value 1994 can thus be identified as the missing portion of the incomplete factual proposition.

The fact completion mode can also include displaying a visual indication of the incomplete factual proposition. Some example visual indicators include coloring highlighting and underlining of text. In the example in visual indicator is an underline beneath double star indicator . This visual indicator highlights the incomplete factual proposition as capable of being processed using the fact completion mode.

The fact completion mode can also include receiving a user input comprising an indication selecting the incomplete factual proposition. For example the drafter of the electronic document can use a mouse to click or hover over the incomplete factual proposition or just the double star indicator portion of the incomplete factual proposition. Once at least a portion of the incomplete factual proposition has been selected a menu can be displayed to the drafter. The menu can be displayed within as a subset of or external to the user interface . In the example of the menu is displayed on the far right side of user interface and is adjacent to the body of the electronic document.

The menu can include a completion element. The completion element can be based on the missing portion of the incomplete factual proposition. In the example in the completion element includes a Change to heading and the suggested text 1994. The menu can also include a cancel element. The cancel element can be selected to remove the menu including the completion element and the cancel element from the display. For example the cancel element can be an Ignore button . If the document drafter selects the Ignore button the menu can be removed from the user interface or the fact completion mode can skip the incomplete factual proposition related to double star indicator and process another incomplete factual proposition.

The menu can also include a reference element. The reference element can include a portion or snippet of the reference factual proposition used to provide the text within the completion element. In the example in the reference element includes a plurality of pictures of the actress Aishwarya Rai Bachchan and a textual overview of her background. The menu can also include a research element. The research element can be selected to allow the drafter of the electronic document to investigate additional information related to the incomplete factual proposition. For example the research element can be visually indicated using a research link More References as shown in . If the drafter selects the research link another user interface not shown can be presented allowing the drafter to view additional materials related to the incomplete factual proposition or the menu can be expanded to include snippets from at least some additional materials.

The fact completion mode can also include receiving a user input comprising an indication selecting the completion element. In the example in the drafter or author can select the Change button . The electronic document can then be modified by replacing double star indicator with the text related to the missing portion of the incomplete factual proposition. For example once the drafter selects the Change button from within the correction element the text can be replaced with the text 1994. If no additional factual propositions within the electronic document are determined to be incomplete the fact completion mode can end and any changes made to the electronic document can be saved.

In stage a first user input comprising text being added to an electronic document can be received at the computing device . The first user input can be generated using the input device for example a keyboard touchscreen or other device capable of use to generate text within an electronic document application. An example first user input is the text string Since the game s beginnings the ball has always been between nine and 9 inches in circumference and five to 5 ounces Honig 125 as shown in .

In stage a fact correction mode is initiated. The fact correction mode can be initiated automatically upon creation of the electronic document. The fact correction mode can also be initiated in response to a user input comprising an indication to initiate the fact correction mode. The indication to initiate the fact correction mode can be the drafter selecting an indicator during document drafting or can be triggered by entry of a sufficient amount of text into the electronic document for example the entry of a complete sentence. The steps included in the fact correction mode will be further detailed below.

The first step in the fact correction mode stage of process includes parsing the text added to the electronic document to identify a factual proposition. As described above in the example shown in the factual proposition is identified that includes the entity baseball attribute circumference and value between nine and 9 inches. 

Stage of process the next step in the fact correction mode includes determining the accuracy of the factual proposition. As described above in the accuracy can be determined by comparing the factual proposition to reference factual propositions from external sources such as sources commonly found on the Internet. A similarity score can be determined based on the comparison and if the similarity score is above a threshold value one or more values in the factual proposition can be compared to a plurality of reference values in reference factual propositions to identify differences between them.

At decision block of process if the factual proposition was determined to be accurate the fact correction mode ends at stage . Alternatively if the factual proposition was determined to be inaccurate the fact correction mode further includes outputting for display a visual indication of the inaccuracy of the factual proposition at stage . As described above the visual indicators can include coloring highlighting and underlining of text. In the example described above in the visual indicator is an underline beneath factual proposition the ball has always been between nine and 9 inches in circumference. 

Stage of process the next step in the fact correction mode includes receiving at the computing device a second user input selecting the inaccurate factual proposition that has been visually indicated within the electronic document. In the example shown in the second user input can be the drafter of the electronic document selecting the terms nine and 9 inches within the factual proposition . The drafter can select the term using a mouse click hover over or any other method of selection.

The next step in the fact correction mode stage of process includes outputting for display a menu that includes a correction element based on an accurate factual proposition related to the inaccurate factual proposition. As described above in the example shown in the inaccurate factual proposition can be used to structure one or more Internet search queries related to the text included in the inaccurate factual proposition . The results from the search queries can be the source of suggested text to correct the inaccurate factual proposition . The correction element can include suggested text 9 and 9 inches under the Change to heading .

Stage of process the next step in the fact correction mode includes receiving at the computing device a third user input comprising an indication selecting the correction element. As described above in the example shown in the drafter of the electronic document can select the Change button to indicate the intent to replace at least a portion of the inaccurate factual proposition .

The final step in the fact correction mode stage of process includes modifying the electronic document by replacing at least a portion of the inaccurate factual proposition with at least a portion of the accurate reference factual proposition. As described above in the example shown in the drafter can select the Change button and the fact correction mode will replace the text nine and 9 inches with the text 9 and 9 inches. The fact correction mode can also insert a citation either optionally or automatically into the electronic document based on the source of the correction element. If no additional factual propositions within the electronic document are found to be inaccurate the fact correction mode can end and any changes made to the electronic document can be saved. The modified version of the electronic document can be saved within the memory or storage of the computing device or at any other location accessible to the computing device .

As described in the fact correction mode can be also be ended after initiation without completing some most or all of the stages of the fact correction mode. Another way to end the fact correction mode is to receive at the computing device a fourth user input comprising an indication to end the fact correction mode. As described above in reference to the indication to end the fact correction mode can be the selection of the Ignore button causing the menu to be removed from the user interface .

In stage a first user input comprising text being added to an electronic document can be received at the computing device . The first user input can be generated using the input device for example a keyboard touchscreen or other device capable of use to generate text within an electronic document application. An example first user input is the text string Aishwarya Rai Bachchan born 1 Nov. 1973 is an Indian film actress as shown in .

In stage a fact completion mode is initiated. As described above in the example in the fact completion mode can be initiated automatically upon creation of the electronic document. The fact completion mode can also be initiated by selecting an indicator during document drafting or can occur automatically upon entry of an unknown indicator such as double star indicator . The steps included in the fact completion mode will be further detailed below.

The first step in the fact completion mode stage of process includes parsing the text added to the electronic document to identify an incomplete factual proposition. As described above in the example shown in the incomplete factual proposition identified includes the person entity Winner of Miss World Pageant associated with the name attribute having a value Aishwarya Rai and the date attribute having a missing value represented by the double star indicator .

Stage of process the next step in the fact completion mode includes determining the missing portion for the incomplete factual proposition. The missing portion can be determined by comparing the incomplete factual proposition to reference factual propositions from external sources such as sources commonly found on the Internet. A similarity score can be determined based on the comparison and if the similarity score is above a threshold value the missing portion of the incomplete factual proposition can be identified as a reference value from at least one of the reference factual propositions. As described above in the example shown in an external source could include the reference factual proposition that Aishwarya Rai won the Miss World Beauty Pageant in 1994. The reference value 1994 can thus be identified as the missing portion of the incomplete factual proposition.

The next step in the fact completion mode stage includes outputting for display a visual indication of the incomplete factual proposition. As described above the visual indicators can include coloring highlighting and underlining of text. In the example described above in the visual indicator is an underline beneath the double star indicator .

Stage of process the next step in the fact completion mode includes receiving at the computing device a second user input selecting the incomplete factual proposition that has been visually indicated within the electronic document. In the example shown in the second user input can be the drafter of the electronic document selecting the double star indicator . The drafter can select the double star indicator using a mouse click hover over or any other method of selection.

The next step in the fact completion mode stage of process includes outputting for display a menu that includes a completion element based the missing portion of the incomplete factual proposition. As described above in the example shown in the menu can be displayed on the far right side of user interface and can be adjacent to the body of the electronic document. The completion element can be based on one or more Internet search queries related to the text included in the incomplete factual proposition. In this example the completion element can include suggested text 1994 under the Change to heading .

Stage of process the next step in the fact completion mode includes receiving at the computing device a third user input comprising an indication selecting the completion element. As described above in the example shown in the drafter of the electronic document can select the Change button to indicate the intent complete the incomplete factual proposition.

The final step in the fact completion mode stage of process includes modifying the electronic document by adding text related to the missing portion to the incomplete factual proposition. As described above in the example shown in the drafter can select the Change button and the fact completion mode will replace the double star indicator with the text 1994. The fact completion mode can also insert a citation either optionally or automatically into the electronic document based on the source of the completion element. If no additional factual propositions within the electronic document are found to be incomplete the fact completion mode can end and any changes made to the electronic document can be saved. The modified version of the electronic document can be saved within the memory or storage of the computing device or at any other location accessible to the computing device .

As described in the fact completion mode can be also be ended after initiation without completing some most or all of the stages of the fact completion mode. Another way to end the fact completion mode is to receive at the computing device a fourth user input comprising an indication to end the fact completion mode. As described above in reference to the indication to end the fact completion mode can be the selection of the Ignore button causing the menu to be removed from the user interface .

The computing device and the algorithms methods instructions etc. stored thereon and or executed thereby can be realized in hardware including for example intellectual property IP cores application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic arrays optical processors programmable logic controllers microcode firmware microcontrollers servers microprocessors digital signal processors or any other suitable circuit. In the claims the term processor should be understood as encompassing any the foregoing either singly or in combination. The terms signal and data are used interchangeably. Further portions of computing device do not necessarily have to be implemented in the same manner.

In one embodiment the computing device can be implemented using general purpose computers processors with a computer program that when executed carries out any of the respective methods algorithms and or instructions described herein. In addition or alternatively for example special purpose computers processors can be utilized which can contain specialized hardware for carrying out any of the methods algorithms or instructions described herein.

Further all or a portion of embodiments can take the form of a computer program product accessible from for example a non transitory computer usable or computer readable medium. A non transitory computer usable or computer readable medium can be any device that can for example tangibly contain store communicate or transport the program for use by or in connection with any processor. The non transitory medium can be for example an electronic device magnetic device optical device electromagnetic device or a semiconductor device. Other suitable mediums are also available.

While this disclosure includes what is presently considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiments it is to be understood that the disclosure is not to be limited to the disclosed embodiments but on the contrary is intended to cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements included within the spirit and scope of the appended claims which scope is to be accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications and equivalent structures as is permitted under the law.

