---

title: Function expanding method and mobile device adapted thereto
abstract: An expanded function supporting method and a mobile device adapted thereto are provided. The method includes receiving input signals for activating a user function related to a system installed to a mobile device, establishing a basic function supporting path used to operate the system when the user function is activated, and an expanded function supporting path to operate an expanded function of the system when an input signal for operating the expanded function is received, and transferring, when receiving an input signal for operating the expanded function, a command for operating the expanded function via the expanded function supporting path.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09280368&OS=09280368&RS=09280368
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09280368
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20120807
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of a Korean patent application filed on Sep. 29 2011 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office and assigned Serial No. 10 2011 0098925 the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to a method for expanding functions of systems installed to a mobile device. More particularly the present invention relates to the mobile device adapted to the method.

Mobile devices refer to mobile communication devices with a call function. Mobile devices are widely adopted because the mobile devices can be easily carried. Mobile devices are implemented with various types of input modes in order to provide user functions. For example such input modes include a touch screen with a touch panel and a display unit so that the users can make gestures on the touch panel while viewing the objects on the display unit. Such mobile devices create touch events according to the user s touches and control the corresponding application programs.

Mobile devices also support a camera function to acquire images or videos. Users can acquire videos via the camera function and transmit the videos via a transmission function. However mobile devices according to the related art have a limited camera function. Consequently mobile devices according to the related art do not satisfy the user s needs. For example as one of the sub functions of the camera function according to the related art a video recording function includes allowing the user to only start and stop recording a video. Therefore the user using a mobile device according to the related art cannot execute another function during the activation of the video recording function. In addition if users newly set their desired camera function to the mobile devices unexpected problems are created such as application conflicts between the camera function and the other functions. Therefore a system is required that can add new functions or set functions in mobile devices according to the users request without application conflicts or function failures.

Therefore a need exists for an apparatus and method for executing functions of systems installed to a mobile device in a variety of modes.

The above information is presented as background information only to assist with an understanding of the present disclosure. No determination has been made and no assertion is made as to whether any of the above might be applicable as prior art with regard to the present invention.

Aspects of the present invention are to address at least the above mentioned problems and or disadvantages and to provide at least the advantages described below. Accordingly an aspect of the present invention is to provide a function expanding method for executing functions of systems installed to a mobile device in a variety of modes and a mobile device adapted to the method.

Another aspect of the present invention is to provide a function expanding method for flexibly adding new functions to a mobile device without conflicting functions of systems installed to the mobile device and smoothly and rapidly processing commands. The present invention further provides a mobile device adapted to the method.

In accordance with an aspect of the present invention an expanded function supporting method is provided. The method includes receiving input signals for activating a user function related to a system installed to a mobile device establishing a basic function supporting path used to operate the system when the user function is activated and an expanded function supporting path to operate an expanded function of the system when an input signal for operating the expanded function is received and transferring when receiving an input signal for operating the expanded function a command for operating the expanded function via the expanded function supporting path.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention a mobile device for supporting function expansion is provided. The device includes a system for supporting a user function a storage unit for storing a module related to a basic function supporting path established when the system is activated and for storing modules related to an expanded function supporting path established to operate an expanded function of the system at least one of an input unit and a touch screen that respectively create input signals for operating the system and a controller for operating the module related to a basic function supporting path or the modules related to an expanded function supporting path according to the input signal.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention a method of supporting an expanded function is provided. The method includes receiving an input signal for executing at least one of a user function of a mobile device and an expanded function of a mobile device and transmitting a command corresponding to the input signal to one of a plurality of function supporting paths based on whether the input signal corresponds to an input signal for executing a user function of the mobile device or to an input signal for executing the expanded function of the mobile device.

Other aspects advantages and salient features of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which taken in conjunction with the annexed drawings discloses exemplary embodiments of the invention.

Throughout the drawings it should be noted that like reference numbers are used to depict the same or similar elements features and structures.

The following description with reference to the accompanying drawings is provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of exemplary embodiments of the invention as defined by the claims and their equivalents. It includes various specific details to assist in that understanding but these are to be regarded as merely exemplary. Accordingly those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various changes and modifications of the embodiments described herein can be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. In addition descriptions of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for clarity and conciseness.

The terms or words used in the following description and claims are not limited to the bibliographical meaning but are merely used by the inventor to enable a clear and consistent understanding of the invention. Accordingly it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the following description of exemplary embodiments of the present invention is provided for illustration purpose only and not for the purpose of limiting the invention as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

It is to be understood that the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a component surface includes reference to one or more of such surfaces.

In the following description although the exemplary embodiments will be explained based on a camera as the system installed to the mobile device and the camera function it should be understood that the present invention is not limited to the exemplary embodiments. For example the system may be at least one sensor for detecting the state of the mobile device a microphone for receiving audio sound a broadcast receiving module for receiving and processing broadcasts etc. Therefore the function expanding method can also be applied to the functions of the systems listed above as well as the camera function.

Referring to the mobile device includes an RF communication unit an input unit an audio processing unit a touch screen a storage unit a controller and a camera .

In order to expand the functions of the camera the mobile device provides a basic Application Programming Interface API for supporting a basic function of the camera and function expansion API for supporting an expanded function of the camera . Therefore the mobile device can provide a variety of expanded camera functions according to a user s requested without conflicting with the basic function and without causing side effects. According to exemplary embodiments of the present invention the mobile device is designed in such a way that expanded camera functions according to the user s request are defined based on a function expansion API and a data transfer path is defined so that data for operating expanded functions is directly transferred from the function expansion API to a function control module. According to exemplary embodiments of the present invention the mobile device can operate the camera with a variety of functions based on the easy function expansion and simple operation. For example the mobile device reserves paths for supporting the basic function and expanded functions of the camera respectively and provides the path for supporting expanded functions according to the request thereby transferring data required to operate the expanded functions via the path.

The RF communication unit establishes communication channels for making a voice video call for transmitting data such as video data text messages and the like under the control of the controller . The RF communication unit establishes a voice video call channel and a data communication channel with an external mobile communication system. As an example the RF communication unit includes an RF transmitter for up converting the frequency of signals to be transmitted and amplifying the signals and an RF receiver for low noise amplifying received RF signals and down converting the frequency of the received RF signals. In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the RF communication unit transmits information regarding images acquired via the camera to external mobile devices according to the user s request. Alternatively the RF communication unit can receive information regarding images from an external mobile device via the established communication channel. The RF communication unit can also receive function block data for expanding functions of the camera from the external systems and transfers it to the controller . It should be understood that the mobile device may not be equipped with the RF communication unit if it is configured to provide the RF communication function.

The input unit includes input keys and function keys that allow the user to input numbers or letter information and to set a variety of functions. The function keys include direction keys side keys shortcut keys and the like which are set to perform specific functions. In addition the input unit creates key signals e.g. input signals for setting user s options and for controlling functions of the mobile device . The input unit transfers the key signals to the controller . If the mobile device is equipped with a touch screen the touch screen displays a QWERTY key map a DVORAK key map a 3 4 key map a 4 3 key map or the like serving as the input unit . The input unit may be implemented with a control key map for controlling the camera during the operation of the camera . The input unit creates input signals for driving the camera for activating an image capture function or a video recording function for pausing or resuming the video recording operation and the like according to the user s request. In addition the input unit can also create input signals for auto focusing on a particular point in a preview image for transferring an image to a particular mobile device during the video recording operation for turning on off an audio receiving function during the video recording operation and the like according to the user s request. The input unit transfers the created input signals to the controller . The controller uses the received input signals as commands to expand the functions of the camera .

The audio processing unit includes a Speaker SPK for reproducing audio data that is transmitted during the call included in messages or created when audio files are played back. The audio processing unit also includes a Microphone MIC for receiving a user s voice during the call or audio signals. The audio processing unit outputs sound effects or guide voices related to the operations of the functions of the camera . When function keys related to the function expansion are operated the audio processing unit can output sound effects or guide voices corresponding to the keys. Exemplary embodiments of the present invention may be implemented in such a way that the audio data according to the function key related to the camera function expansion may not be output according to the user s settings.

The touch screen includes a display panel and a touch panel where the touch panel is installed to the front of the display panel .

The display panel displays menus of the mobile device and information input by the user or information provided to the user. The display panel provides various types of screens according to the operations of the mobile device such as an idle screen menu screens a message writing screen a call screen and the like. The display unit may be implemented with a Liquid Crystal Display LCD an Organic Light Emitting Diode OLED or the like. The display panel is placed on the upper or lower side of the touch panel .

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the display panel displays various types of screens related to the operations of the camera . For example the display panel displays a preview screen for acquiring a still image while operating the functions of the camera a screen for showing images acquired from a subject in a preview mode or at a particular time point according to an input signal a screen for storing or deleting the acquired image etc. The display panel also displays a preview screen for acquiring a video while operating the functions of the camera a screen for recording a video according to an input signal a menu screen for showing a number of items for executing storage deletion transmission or process of the acquired video and the like. The recording screen includes a key map with a number of function keys for supporting a variety of expanded functions for example a key for pausing the output of a recorded video a key for resuming the paused video a key for transmitting images during the video recording operation a key for controlling the functions related to the acquisition of audio signals during the video recording operation and the like.

When an event occurs by touching a particular location on a screen of the touch panel during the video recording operation the display panel displays an automatic focused screen with respect to the touched location and the currently recorded video screen.

The touch panel is placed in the upper and or lower side of the display panel and includes touch sensors arrayed in a matrix form. The touch panel creates a signal when an event by a user s finger touch occurs via the sensors and transfers it to the controller . That is the touch panel transfers information regarding a location where the touch event has occurred and the type of touch event to the controller . The touch panel can create signals corresponding to touch events via the function key maps and allow for the touches at any positions in order to support an automatic focus function. The touches applied to the touch panel are converted to command data corresponding to the function key map allocated to the locations and then transferred to the controller . In order to support an automatic focus function the touch panel transfers command data for corresponding functions and location information regarding the touches to the controller .

The storage unit stores application programs for executing functions according to exemplary embodiments of the present invention and various types of key maps or menu map for operating the touch screen . The storage unit includes a program storage area and a data storage area.

The program storage area stores an Operating System OS for booting the mobile device and for controlling the entire operation of the components in the mobile device . The program storage area also stores application programs for supporting user functions for example a file reproducing function a call function a web browser function an audio playback function e.g. MP3 files an image output function for searching and displaying photographs a video playback function and the like. In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the program storage area stores a camera function expansion supporting program .

The camera function expansion supporting program includes routines for supporting a basic function and expanded functions of the camera . The basic function supporting routine is loaded on the memory when the mobile device is booted and supports functions according to an input signal for activating the camera under the control of the controller . When an input signal for executing an expanded function e.g. a video recording function during the operation of the camera is created the expanded function supporting routine is loaded on the memory from the storage unit and then the expanded function is executed under the control of the controller . As an example the camera function expansion supporting program is loaded on the memory only if a corresponding expanded function is requested thereby efficiently managing the memory. In addition the expanded function supporting routine further includes a number of sub routines for a pausing function during the video recording operation a resuming function of a paused video recording operation an audio controlling function during the video recording operation a data transmission function during the video recording operation and the like. The expanded function supporting routine is implemented with function modules which will be explained in detail with the description of the controller .

The data storage area stores data generated when the mobile device is used for example a phone book contents at least one icon according to the widget function and the like. The data storage area also stores user s input via the touch panel . The data storage area temporarily stores a video that has been currently recorded according to the operation of an expanded function of the camera . For example when a pausing function of the camera is activated during the video recording operation the video recorded by the time point is temporarily stored in the data storage area. When the video resuming function is activated the video after the resumption is stored following the previously paused video in the data storage area.

The controller initializes the components in the mobile device by supplying electric power thereto. The controller also controls the signal flow in order to support the expanded functions of the mobile device . To this end the controller may include the components as shown in .

Referring to the controller includes a user function executing unit an interface module a path creating module a function control module and an OMX . The controller may further include a function updating module . When a user function is selected according to a signal created via the input unit or the touch screen the user function executing unit executes the application corresponding thereto. The application is loaded on the memory and supports the user function under the control of the user function executing unit . For example if the user selects a menu or a widget for activating the camera the user function executing unit loads the application for supporting the functions of the camera on the memory and supports the functions. The user function executing unit outputs a preview video input via the camera on the touch screen and captures an image images when a shutter key input signal is created. The user function executing unit also controls the settings of the camera to support a variety of functions. Alternatively when a user function is selected via the sensors the user function executing unit can also call the application to support the function.

In order to support the basic function of the camera according to exemplary embodiments of the present invention the controller may be designed in such a way that the interface module is placed under the user function executing unit the path creating module is placed under the interface module the function control module is placed under the path creating module and the OMX is placed under the function control module . Therefore when the user function executing unit transfers a command for operating a function of a component e.g. the camera to the interface module the interface module coverts the command to a language adapted to the path creating module and then transfers it thereto. The interface module includes basic API for supporting a basic function of a component and function expansion API for supporting an expanded function of the component. Therefore if the component is camera the interface module can provide a basic API for supporting the basic function when the camera is executed and also a function expansion API for supporting the expanded function according to a request for function expansion.

The path creating module calls a process for supporting a function of the camera from the previously loaded upper process related to the image output of the mobile device and establishes a path for transferring a command for controlling the camera by binding the processes. The upper process supports calls the function control module for operating the function of the camera when binding the processes. When a path is created by binding the processes the interface module transfers a command for controlling a specific function block to the function control module via the path. The control command may be defined in the interface module to call the function block included in the function control module . That is the interface module may include information that defines the function blocks included in the function control module . Although the exemplary embodiment of the present invention is described in such a way that the function blocks refer to blocks for operating the functions of the camera it should be understood that if a user function is selected via the other components e.g. sensors the function blocks may also support the sensor based functions.

The function control module placed under the path creating module receives a command from the interface module via the module and performs a control operation according to the command. For example if the function control module receives a video recording start command the function control module creates commands for controlling corresponding components required to perform the video recording operation and transfers the commands to the OMX . Examples of the commands include a command for detecting previously set values for recording a video and adjusting the settings of the camera according to the set values a command for recording a video a command for storing videos acquired during the video recording operation and the like. Because the function control module includes routines for supporting a basic function of the camera the function control module also creates a command for supporting the basic function and transfers the command the adjacent module.

The function control module can load modules for operating corresponding expanded functions and execute the expanded functions via the modules. The expanded functions may be implemented with corresponding function blocks where the respective function blocks are defined in the interface module . According to exemplary embodiments of the present invention the interface module transfers commands for executing only the defined function blocks to the function control module via the path creating module . The function control module identifies function blocks corresponding to the received commands and executes the expanded functions via the blocks. When new functions related to the camera are implemented in the mobile device the function modules corresponding to the function are arrayed in the function control module and defined in the interface module thereby easily expanding the functions of the camera .

The OMX converts the commands from the function control module in terms of their types to operate the modules and transfers them to the modules. The OMX receives commands for controlling the camera created in the function control module and transfers the commands to the modules of the camera thereby controlling the camera . Therefore the function control module can control the functions of the camera corresponding to the user s requests via the OMX .

The function updating module supports the function expansion of the camera . If the mobile device receives updating information regarding the camera or is equipped with new function blocks to include new functions of the mobile device or to update the previous functions the function updating module receives update information and information regarding corresponding function blocks via the RF communication unit from the external system. The RF communication unit establishes a channel for receiving update information and information regarding the function blocks and may be implemented with various types of interfaces in wired wireless mode. When the function updating module receives information regarding function blocks and or update information the function updating module arranges the information at a certain location of a corresponding function control module and describes the definition regarding the added function blocks in the interface module . When the mobile device is equipped with new functions related to the camera the mobile device defines the new functions in the function control module and the interface module respectively. Therefore according to exemplary embodiments of the present invention the mobile device can allow the user to use the added new functions. Alternatively the function blocks related to the camera may not be defined when the function blocks are updated or may be newly defined to comply with update information according to the mobile device manufacturer s design.

Referring to the controller is equipped with modules for supporting the functions of the camera . The modules are arrayed in the controller to operate the camera based on the Android framework. It should be understood that exemplary embodiments of the present invention are not limited to the operation of the camera based on the Android framework but may be adaptively applied to a variety of frameworks to expand the functions of the camera .

With further reference to the controller is designed in such a way that a camera camcorder application as a user function executing unit is arrayed on an application layer and an interface module is arrayed an API layer to transfer commands created in the camera camcorder to the lower modules. The interface module includes MediaRecorder.java for supporting the basic function of the camera and MediaRecorder JNI for converting language of the MediaRecorder.java . This configuration enables the camera camcorder application to operate in Java. This is because the lower modules are operated in computer language C or C .

When a video recording function with an expanded function of the camera is operated the interface module includes SecMediaRecorder JNI and SecMediaRecorder.java arrayed in the memory used for executing functions. The SecMediaRecorder JNI and SecMediaRecorder.java refer to modules newly defined to support the expanded functions of the camera . According to exemplary embodiments of the present invention the SecMediaRecorder JNI and SecMediaRecorder.java are not loaded on the memory if the expanded function of the camera is not executed. According to exemplary embodiments of the present invention the SecMediaRecorder JNI and SecMediaRecorder.java are loaded on the memory according to an input signal for operating a corresponding expanded function and perform an interfacing operation to support the expanded function.

MediaPlayerService corresponding to the path creating module located on the Media Framework layer is loaded during the booting process of the mobile device and supports the mobile device outputting the various images. MediaPlayerService creates MediaRecorder according to the request of the interface module and MediaRecorderClient to support the functions of the camera according to the request of the interface module . During this process MediaRecorder and MediaRecorderClient are bound with each other and transfer commands from the interface module to the lower function control module via the bounded path. MediaRecorderClient processes the header of command data transferred from the interface module based on MediaRecorderBase .

StagefrightRecorder Framework and PVMediaRecorder Framework corresponding to the function control module refer to modules that directly execute the functions of the camera . The modules and may be variously implemented according to the types of cameras installed to the mobile device . Although the embodiment shown in is implemented with two modules and it may be modified to include one module according to the mobile device manufacturer s design. Although the controller includes two modules and the interface module can set a path so that it cooperates with one of them and operates the functions of the camera . For example MediaRecorder.java establishes a path with StagefrightRecorder Framework and operates the functions of the camera based on the established module. Alternatively SecMediaRecorder.java establishes a path with StagefrightRecorder Framework or PVMediaRecorder Framework and transfers commands required to operate the functions of the camera based on the established module.

The function control module converts the commands transferred via the path creating module bound with the interface module into corresponding commands required to operate the camera . The function control module is equipped with function blocks corresponding to expanded functions selects one of the blocks according to a command transferred from the interface module and creates a command to execute a function of the camera related to the selected function block.

The OMX converts the commands transferred from the function control module into commands in a format that can be detected by a Video Audio Encoder Driver Layer corresponding to a Kernel Layer. The OMX transfers a corresponding converted command to the Video Audio Encoder Driver Layer . The Video Audio Encoder Driver Layer includes CODECs and signals lines connected to the camera . The Video Audio Encoder Driver Layer receives commands for controlling the camera from the upper layer and transfers the commands to the components in the camera . The Video Audio Encoder Driver Layer transfers information regarding a video acquired by the camera to the function control module via the OMX . For example when a video recording operation is executed the Video Audio Encoder Driver Layer transfers the information indicating that a video is being acquired or has been acquired to the function control module . The Video Audio Encoder Driver Layer also performs a data transferring operation so that the acquired video is stored in the storage unit or temporarily stored in the memory according to a command transferred from the function control module . The Video Audio Encoder Driver Layer encodes the video acquired by the camera in a certain mode and stores the encoded data in the storage unit .

Referring to when the mobile device activates the camera according to a user s request the mobile device shows a preview screen of a video acquired via the lens of the camera on the touch screen . During this process the mobile device executes the user function executing unit to operate the camera .

When the user creates an input signal to activate an expanded function of the camera functions e.g. a video recording function the mobile device loads an API for supporting the expanded function on the interface module and establishes a path for supporting the expanded function. After that the mobile device calls the function control module for supporting an expanded function. For example the mobile device establishes paths for supporting a basic function and expanded functions respectively.

When the mobile device calls the function control module and identifies the function blocks therein the mobile device displays items corresponding to the respective function blocks at one side on the screen For example the mobile device may display a Pause for pausing a function operation a Resume for resuming a video recording operation an Audio for controlling audio and the like. In that case the user can select one of the items for example related to a video recording operation. In addition if the camera supports the expanded functions the controller displays items linked thereto on the touch screen . When one of the items linked to the expanded functions is selected the controller calls the interface module the path creating module and the function control module in order to support the selected expanded function.

For example when the user selects an item Pause the touch screen transfers a command corresponding to the item to the user function executing unit . The user function executing unit transfers the command to the interface module . The interface module creates a command corresponding to the item Pause and transfers the command to the function control module via a path creating module bound therewith. The function control module calls the Pause function block via the received command and creates commands for controlling the camera via the function block.

The user interface module transfers command data including a number of parameters to the function control module in order to operate the function blocks. When the user touches a certain point on the touch screen during the video recording operation the touch screen transfers the touched location information and a command corresponding to a function e.g. an automatic focusing function to the user function executing unit . After receiving the information the user interface module creates location information regarding the touched point and command data corresponding to an automatic focusing function and transfers them to the function control module . The function control module selects a function block to execute the automatic focusing function creates a command for executing the function with respected to the received location information and transfers the command to the camera .

The mobile device can control a variety of functions of the camera . When the mobile device executes an expanded function the mobile device can call the interface module separated from the basic function create a command required to control the functions of the camera based on the module and transfer the command to the camera . Therefore the mobile device can support the expanded functions of the camera without conflicting with the basic function or causing unexpected events.

In the foregoing description the configuration and operations of the mobile device related to the function expansion of the camera were explained with the user interface.

Referring to when the mobile device is turned on the controller controls the supply of electric power to the components at step . The controller receives an input signal and determines whether the input signal corresponds to a signal for operating a function of the camera at step . When the controller determines that the input signal does not correspond to a signal for operating a function of the camera at step the controller performs a user function corresponding to the input signal at step e.g. a voice call function a file search function a file playback function an web accessing function and the like according to the functions of the mobile device . If the user intends to add expanded functions related to the camera to the mobile device the controller establishes via the RF communication unit a communication channel with a server that provides data of the function blocks corresponding to the expanded functions and then receives the function block data. The received function block data is transferred to and defined in the interface module and the function control module .

In contrast when the controller determines that the input signal corresponds to a signal for operating a function of the camera at step the controller supports the functions of the camera based on a basic media recorder API for supporting the basic function of the camera at step . For example the controller calls an application for operating the camera based on the user function executing unit binds MediaRecorder.java MediaRecorder JNI and MediaRecorder with MediaRecorderClient in order to process commands according to the execution of a corresponding application calls the function control module and the like. The controller establishes a basic function supporting path via modules for supporting the basic function of the camera . After that the controller supports the basic function of the camera according to the signals for controlling the camera input via the touch screen and the like. The basic functions of the camera may be various according to the type of camera installed to the mobile device for example a still image acquiring function and the like.

After operating the basic function of the camera at step the controller determines whether a signal is created to activate an expanded function e.g. an expanded video recording function at step . The expanded video recording function may be set to the mobile device by default. Alternatively an option may be set to the mobile device to select one of the previous video recording function and the expanded video recording function. To this end the mobile device may display on the touch screen an option item for selecting one of a still image acquiring function a basic video recording function or an expanded video recording function. When the controller determines that a signal is not created to activate an expanded video recording function at step the controller returns to and proceeds with step .

In contrast when the controller determines that a signal is created to activate an expanded video recording function at step the controller loads an expanded media recorder API at step . The controller calls the interface module for supporting the expanded functions of the camera . After that the controller binds MediaRecorderclient with MediaRecorder having a command transfer path at step . For example the controller performs an operation to establish a path for transferring commands of the interface module . During the process a MediaPlayerService module related to the image processes in the mobile device calls processes for setting a path according to the request of the interface module and binds the processes with each other.

The MediaPlayerService module calls the function control module to support an expanded recording function linked to the established path at step . The function control module may have been called to support the basic function of the camera or may additionally call function blocks corresponding to the expanded functions. In order to efficiently manage the memory it is preferable that corresponding function blocks may be called each time that the expanded camera functions are requested however it may be designed in such a way that the blocks are stored in the memory when supporting the basic function and activated when a corresponding expanded function is used. As such the controller can establish expanded function supporting paths via the expanded function supporting modules.

After preparing for the support of an expanded recording function at step the controller executes the function according to an input signal at step . After that the controller determines whether a signal is input to terminate operating the expanded function at step . If the controller determines that a signal is input to terminate operating the expanded function at step the controller returns to step . In contrast if the controller determines that a signal is not input to terminate operating the expanded function at step the controller returns to and proceeds with step .

As described above the function expansion supporting method according to exemplary embodiments of the present invention is performed in such a way that a path for supporting a basic function of a system installed to the mobile device and selected to perform a user function is established via the modules for supporting the basic function and a path for supporting the expanded functions is established via the modules for supporting the expanded functions and a command created to support an expanded function is transferred via the expanded function supporting path. Therefore in order to expand the functions of a system installed to the mobile device e.g. a camera and operate the expanded functions as well as the basic function the function expansion supporting method according to exemplary embodiments of the present invention can provide the flexible function expansion with the minimal affects to the components in the mobile device. In addition the method according to exemplary embodiments of the present invention can use corresponding data only when supporting an expanded function thereby increasing the use efficiency of memory.

Although the exemplary embodiment of the present invention was explained in such a way that the still image acquiring function is defined as a basic function of the camera it should be understood that exemplary embodiments of the present invention is not limited to such exemplary embodiments. That is the still image acquiring function may serve as an expanded function according to the mobile device manufacturers design. In that case a block for supporting the still image acquiring function may be arrayed in the function control module and the definition for designating the block may also be made in the interface module . Although the function expansion supporting method and the mobile device adapted thereto are explained based on the camera and the specific functions for example it should be understood that they can also be applied to the example where the expanded functions are added to the basic function of the camera.

As described above the function expanding method according to exemplary embodiments of the present invention can add functions of new systems to a mobile device without conflicting functions of systems that have been installed to the mobile device and efficiently and rapidly process commands for executing the functions of the systems. Therefore the mobile device adapted to the method provides use convenience to the user.

Although it is not shown in the drawings the mobile device may selectively further include various types of components for example a short range communication module for short range communication an interface for transmitting receiving data in a wireless or weird mode an Internet communication module and a digital broadcast module for receiving and reproducing broadcasts. With the spread of digital convergence although the mobile device is too various to list their modifications in this description it will be easily appreciated to those skilled in the art that the other components equivalent to the above listed components may be further included to the mobile device according to exemplary embodiments of the present invention. Also it will be appreciated that according to the purposes the mobile device may be implemented by omitting a particular component or replacing it with other components.

The mobile device according to exemplary embodiments of the present invention includes all information communication devices multimedia devices and their applications which are operated according to communication protocols corresponding to various types of communication systems. For example the mobile device can be applied to mobile communication terminals Portable Multimedia Players PMPs digital broadcast players Personal Digital Assistants PDAs audio players e.g. MP3 players mobile game players smart phones laptop computers hand held PC etc.

While the invention has been shown and described with reference to certain exemplary embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

