---

title: Behavioral fingerprint based authentication
abstract: A computationally-implemented method, for certain example embodiments, may include, but is not limited to: determining that a first user of a computing device is associated with the computing device; and determining a level of authentication associated with the first user via the computing device, the level of authentication at least partially based on a behavioral fingerprint. A level of authentication determination may additionally/alternatively include at least determining a behavioral fingerprint via establishing a statistical predictability of one or more future actions of an authorized user of a computing device. A level of authentication determination may additionally/alternatively include at least determining an authentication level with respect to a computing device at least partially based on a behavioral fingerprint determined from interaction(s) with another device. In addition to the foregoing, other example aspects are described in the claims, drawings, and written description forming a part of the present disclosure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08713704&OS=08713704&RS=08713704
owner: Elwha LLC
number: 08713704
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120518
---
The present application is related to and or claims the benefit of the earliest available effective filing date s from the following listed application s the Priority Applications if any listed below e.g. claims earliest available priority dates for other than provisional patent applications or claims benefits under 35 USC 119 e for provisional patent applications for any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Priority Application s . In addition the present application is related to the Related Applications if any listed below.

The United States Patent Office USPTO has published a notice to the effect that the USPTO s computer programs require that patent applicants reference both a serial number and indicate whether an application is a continuation continuation in part or divisional of a parent application. Stephen G. Kunin Benefit of Prior Filed Application USPTO Official Gazette Mar. 18 2003. The USPTO further has provided forms for the Application Data Sheet which allow automatic loading of bibliographic data but which require identification of each application as a continuation continuation in part or divisional of a parent application. The present Applicant Entity hereinafter Applicant has provided above a specific reference to the application s from which priority is being claimed as recited by statute. Applicant understands that the statute is unambiguous in its specific reference language and does not require either a serial number or any characterization such as continuation or continuation in part for claiming priority to U.S. patent applications. Notwithstanding the foregoing Applicant understands that the USPTO s computer programs have certain data entry requirements and hence Applicant has provided designation s of a relationship between the present application and its parent application s as set forth above and in any ADS filed in this application but expressly points out that such designations are not to be construed in any way as any type of commentary and or admission as to whether or not the present application contains any new matter in addition to the matter of its parent application s .

If the listings of applications provided above are inconsistent with the listings provided via an ADS it is the intent of the Applicant to claim priority to each application that appears in the Priority Applications section of the ADS and to each application that appears in the Priority Applications section of this application.

All subject matter of the Priority Applications and the Related Applications and of any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Priority Applications and the Related Applications including any priority claims is incorporated herein by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

For certain example embodiments a computationally implemented method may include but is not limited to determining that a first user of a computing device is associated with the computing device and determining a level of authentication associated with the first user via the computing device the level of authentication at least partially based on a behavioral fingerprint. In addition to the foregoing other example method aspects are described in the claims drawings and written description forming a part of the present disclosure.

In one or more various aspects related systems include but are not limited to circuitry and or programming for effecting the herein referenced method aspects the circuitry and or programming can be virtually any combination of hardware software and or firmware in one or more machines or articles of manufacture configured to effect the herein referenced method aspects depending upon the design choices of the system designer.

For certain example embodiments a computationally implemented system may include but is not limited to means for determining that a first user of a computing device is associated with the computing device and means for determining a level of authentication associated with the first user via the computing device the level of authentication at least partially based on a behavioral fingerprint. In addition to the foregoing other example system aspects are described in the claims drawings and written description forming a part of the present disclosure.

For certain example embodiments a computationally implemented system may include but is not limited to circuitry for determining that a first user of a computing device is associated with the computing device and circuitry for determining a level of authentication associated with the first user via the computing device the level of authentication at least partially based on a behavioral fingerprint. In addition to the foregoing other example system aspects are described in the claims drawings and written description forming a part of the present disclosure.

For certain example embodiments with at least one processor accessible medium bearing processor executable instructions the processor executable instructions may include but are not limited to one or more instructions for determining that a first user of a computing device is associated with the computing device and one or more instructions for determining a level of authentication associated with the first user via the computing device the level of authentication at least partially based on a behavioral fingerprint. In addition to the foregoing other example computer program product aspects are described in the claims drawings and written description forming a part of the present disclosure.

For certain example embodiments a computer program product comprises an article of manufacture that may bear among other instructions one or more instructions for determining that a first user of a computing device is associated with the computing device and one or more instructions for determining a level of authentication associated with the first user via the computing device the level of authentication at least partially based on a behavioral fingerprint. In addition to the foregoing other example computer program product aspects are described in the claims drawings and written description forming a part of the present disclosure.

For certain example embodiments a method may relate to authenticating through a computing device with the method including determining that a first user of a computing device is associated with the computing device wherein the determining that a first user of a computing device is associated with the computing device is performed via at least one of a machine an article of manufacture or a composition of matter and determining a level of authentication associated with the first user via the computing device the level of authentication at least partially based on a behavioral fingerprint wherein the determining a level of authentication associated with the first user via the computing device is performed via at least one of a machine an article of manufacture or a composition of matter.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to e.g. the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here.

Advances in computing technologies and related technologies e.g. visual display technology battery technology etc. resulted in the development of computing devices with tremendous processing power and relatively small form factors. Examples of such computing devices include for example laptops Netbooks tablet computers e.g. slate computers e readers smartphones entertainment appliances mobile device and so forth. Having a small form factor with tremendous processing power presents numerous opportunities for developing applications that previously required desktop computers or other stationary devices. One problem with the numerous applications available on a small form factor is that authentication becomes paramount. For example if an application enables a mobile phone or a smartphone or an electronic device such as a key fob to open doors to a home or car it may be important to determine that the user of the device phone key fob etc. is the true owner or otherwise an authorized user.

Certain example embodiments herein are directed to enabling authentication and or verification to be determined based at least partially on a behavioral fingerprint of the true owner or other authorized user of a device.

In accordance with various example embodiments computationally implemented methods systems devices and articles of manufacture are provided that can determine a level of authentication of a first user of a computing device and in response to determining the level of authentication may automatically enable one or more actions as a function of the level of authentication. In various embodiments such computationally implemented methods systems devices and articles of manufacture may be implemented at a computing device and or a computer server networked to a computing device.

Referring now to the figure illustrates a computing device that may be connected via a network interface to a computer server in an exemplary environment . Computing device is shown being operated by a first user . As will be further described herein the illustrated computing device and or computer server may employ the computationally implemented methods systems devices and articles of manufacture in accordance with various embodiments. The computing device and computer server in various embodiments may be endowed with logic that is designed to determine a level of authentication of a user of the computing device and in response to such a determination may automatically enable functions of the computing device .

First user may be the primary user such as the owner of the computing device or may be a person given authority to use the computing device by the owner. As discussed below the level of authentication associated with the first user whether owner or not may be determined at least partially based on a behavioral fingerprint of the owner or other authorized user of computing device . More particularly a level of authentication associated with first user of computing device can be determined based at least partially on a behavioral fingerprint of the owner or other authorized user of computing device . The behavioral fingerprint of an owner or other authorized user of computing device can be configured to be network accessible by computing device via network to server s . Server s can be a cloud of connected network servers can be a web server can be a centralized or fixed processing device any combination thereof and so forth. A behavioral fingerprint of an owner authorized user of computing device can be configured to override or to at least be a contributing or impacting factor for a level of authentication associated with computing device . In certain example implementations a behavioral fingerprint may be stored at least partially at a computing device may be stored at least partially at one or more servers may be stored at least partially at one or more other devices may be distributed across one or more devices or servers may be duplicated across one or more devices or servers any combination thereof and so forth. If a behavioral fingerprint is located distant from a device or server intending to access it remote access may be provided at least a portion of a behavioral fingerprint may be transferred or copied to a device or server intending to access it any combination thereof and so forth.

Although the computing device illustrated in is depicted as being a tablet computer in alternative embodiments the computationally implemented methods systems devices and articles of manufacture in accordance with various embodiments may be embodied in other types of computer systems having other form factors including other types of portable computing devices such as for example mobile telephones laptops Netbooks mobile devices smartphones e readers portable game machines entertainment appliances a combination thereof and so forth. For example device s illustrate smartphones client computers and the like as possible computing devices. As illustrated the computing device can include a display such as a touchscreen on the front side of the computing device . Computing device can further include a keyboard or keypad as a touch input output keyboard as an attached keyboard as a physical keyboard as a touch screen virtual keyboard any combination thereof and so forth. As further depicted in the display displays an exemplary document and a tool bar or menu . As further depicted the computing device may also include a camera e.g. a webcam disposed on the front side of the computing device . In some embodiments additional cameras screens touch sensitive surfaces other input and or output implements combinations thereof etc. may be included on the front side and or backside of the computing device .

The first user can be an authorized user of computing device or a person who has no connection to the computing device . In an embodiment a level of authentication and or a behavioral fingerprint can be at least partially determinative of the accessibility of computing device . In an example embodiment computing device may determine a level of authentication of first user of a computing device . In an example embodiment computing device may use a level of authentication to enable or disable automatic functions of the computing device . For example computing device can be configured to automatically open doors to a home car or safe or automatically permit operation of another authorized user designated item depending on the level of authentication associated with the computing device at that time.

In accordance with an example embodiment a level of authentication determination may rely at least in part on a behavioral fingerprint of one or more authorized users of computing device . A behavioral fingerprint can be determined based on statistical calculations on social network collected data sensor provided data user input a combination of such data and so forth. Thus a level of authentication can be affected by a behavioral fingerprint of an authorized user of computing device which behavioral fingerprint may include social network collected data including data derived therefrom. The level of authentication can also be affected by various aspects at a time computing device is turned on such as aspects surrounding computing device and or aspects of the computing device itself e.g. physical location movements detected images combinations thereof etc. . For example when a computing device of is turned on by a first user the first user may input a password or pattern or other identifying input e.g. biometric information such as a fingerprint analysis facial recognition or the like. A level of authentication may recognize a user as an authorized user and then determine if a behavioral fingerprint is established for that authorized user. A behavioral fingerprint of an authorized user can be configured to work together to determine accessibility of computing device to first user . A level of authentication and a behavioral fingerprint can be directly correlated or they can be configured to enable a level of authentication to override a behavioral fingerprint or vice versa.

For example a manufacturer of computing device may be able to override a behavioral fingerprint of an authorized user of computing device via a level of authentication by entering a secret code such as a manufacturer s accessibility code or the like in order to perform work on computing device . In one or more example embodiments first user can be a network accessible user for which computing device is just one of many network accessible devices that network accessible user may use to access the internet a cloud server a mobile network a combination thereof and so forth. A network accessible user can be an owner and or operator of computing device and or other devices. For certain example embodiments at least a portion of at least one behavioral fingerprint that is associated with at least one user e.g. a device owner an authorized user a first user a combination thereof etc. may be located at e.g. stored at computing device one or more devices one or more servers any combination thereof and so forth. According to an example embodiment a network accessible user can have a behavioral fingerprint that exists outside of computing device e.g. that can exist in a cloud computing system for which servers are connected or form at least a part. According to another example embodiment at least a portion of a behavioral fingerprint may be transferred from one device to another from a device to a server from a server to one or more devices any combination thereof and so forth. Devices can further have a presence in the cloud computing system to facilitate the embodiments described herein. For example each of devices can be a network accessible device to which a network accessible user may be connected. Thus a network accessible user may be a user of one or several devices simultaneously and or at different times. A network accessible user may also be a user of a public computing device for example if none of devices are currently available to network accessible user .

Referring now to an example of a computing device of illustrates a level of authentication module an access restricting module a behavioral fingerprint module an alert generating module a memory which may store one or more applications and or a library of behavioral fingerprints one or more processors e.g. microprocessors controllers etc. one or more sensors a user interface e.g. a display monitor that may include a touchscreen a keypad a mouse a microphone a speaker a movement detector etc. a network interface e.g. network interface card or NIC and so forth.

In various example embodiments a level of authentication module of may comprise at least one logic module that is designed to determine a level of authentication associated with a first user of a computing device . An access restricting module may comprise at least one logic module that is designed to restrict access to one or more items in response to a determination made by the level of authentication module . An alert generating module may comprise at least one logic module that is designed to generate an alert that causes the computing device to communicate a variance to the level of authentication module to restrict capabilities of the computing device or access to the one or more items. The computing device of can include any one or more of e.g. four logic modules e.g. the level of authentication module the access restricting module the behavioral fingerprint module or the alert generating module using circuitry including one or more components such as at least one application specific integrated circuit ASIC . Alternatively logic modules including a level of authentication module an access restricting module a behavioral fingerprint module or an alert generating module can provide the same or similar functionality as and correspond to level of authentication module access restricting module behavioral fingerprint module or alert generating module respectively. Logic modules such as level of authentication module behavioral fingerprint module access restricting module or alert generating module of the computing device of can be implemented by the one or more processors by e.g. executing computer readable instructions e.g. software and or firmware that may be stored in the memory . Instructions may comprise by way of example but not limitation a program a module an application or app e.g. that is native that runs in a browser that runs within a virtual machine a combination thereof etc. an operating system etc. or portion thereof operational data structures processor executable instructions code or any combination thereof and so forth. At least one medium e.g. memory may comprise by way of example but not limitation processor accessible or non transitory media that is or are capable of bearing instructions data files configuration settings a combination thereof and so forth.

Note that although illustrates certain logic modules e.g. the level of authentication module the access restricting module the behavioral fingerprint module and the alert generating module being implemented using circuitry components such as at least one ASIC logic modules or may be implemented using a combination of specifically designed circuitry such as at least one ASIC and one or more processors or other types of circuitry such as e.g. field programmable gate arrays FPGAs executing computer readable instructions . For example in some embodiments at least one of the logic modules may be implemented using specially designed circuitry e.g. at least one ASIC while a second logic module may be implemented using a processor or other types of programmable circuitry such as an FPGA executing computer readable instructions e.g. software and or firmware . A combination of software or firmware and circuitry may be implemented to realize certain ones of the example embodiments described herein for example one or more logic modules may be designed to use an efficient combination of software hardware firmware in order to expeditiously implement methods or systems within the scope of the present disclosure. For certain example embodiments logic may comprise hardware software firmware discrete fixed logic circuitry any combination thereof etc. that is capable of performing or facilitating performance of methods processes operations functionality technology or mechanisms etc. that are described herein or illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Circuitry may comprise hardware software firmware discrete fixed logic circuitry any combination thereof etc. that is capable of performing or facilitating performance of methods processes operations functionality technology or mechanisms etc. that are described herein or illustrated in the accompanying drawings wherein circuitry comprises at least one physical or hardware component or aspect.

In various example embodiments memory of the computing device of may comprise one or more of a mass storage device read only memory ROM programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM cache memory such as random access memory RAM flash memory synchronous random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM hierarchical memory other types of memory devices any combination thereof and so forth. In various example embodiments the one or more applications stored in memory may include by way of example but not limitation an operating system one or more productivity applications such as a word processing application or a spreadsheet application one or more communication applications such as an email or IM application one or more personal information manager applications e.g. Microsoft Outlook one or more social network applications such as Twitter and Facebook any combination thereof and so forth.

Turning now to a particular example implementation of the level of authentication module and of is shown. As illustrated the level of authentication module or may include one or more sub logic modules in various alternative example implementations. For example in various implementations the level of authentication module may include a behavioral fingerprint interaction module which may further include an anomalous action detecting module or a social network confirmation module . Level of authentication module may further include a statistical level determination module a visual cue detecting module which may include a face detecting module an audio cue detecting module which may include a voice pattern detecting module a combination thereof and so forth. Level of authentication module may also include a geographic location determination or GPS module .

A behavioral fingerprint catalogue or a library of anomalous actions may be stored for example as part of behavioral fingerprint library that is stored in memory see of the computing device of . Therefore if anomalous actions that match with a behavioral fingerprint catalogue or a library of anomalous changes e.g. as stored in library of the memory have been detected then at least an inference may be made that the user of computing device is not authenticated or authorized that a first user is not an owner or an authorized user of computing device that a first user is attempting to perform some action e.g. access an application or functionality access data make a purchase a combination thereof etc. that is not authorized or that is restricted any combination thereof and so forth.

In certain example embodiments the computing device may include logic that is designed to determine data from one or a combination of sensors e.g. of that may be processed and analyzed. In example embodiments computing device may determine via one or more image capturing devices e.g. a webcam or digital camera one or more audio capturing devices e.g. microphones or images received by a computing device via one or more networked devices or social networks if the computing device is no longer under the control of first user which may cause a level of authentication determined in level of authentication module to alter. For example the computing device in some cases may employ one or more movement sensors to detect the actual movements of the computing device or one or more image capturing devices which may use a facial recognition system application to determine that a face associated with the first user is not a face associated with an owner or other authorized user s of computing device . Based on data provided by the movement sensors or the image capturing devices at least an inference may be made that the computing device should have an alteration to the level of authentication.

Alternatively or additionally in certain example embodiments the computing device may be endowed with a facial recognition system e.g. facial recognition software that when employed with one or more image capturing devices may be used to determine the presence or absence of a face associated with an owner or other authorized user s of computing device via a comparison to that of the first user . If a face associated with an authorized user of computing device does not match first user then a determination may be made to alter the level of authentication associated with first user . In addition to face recognition other logic can include using the field of view of image capturing device or one or more audio capturing devices or other sensor device s of the computing device to identify an authorized user of the computing device through other recognition processes such as fingerprint retina voice verification global positioning system GPS location e.g. in comparison to a known or expected location of an authorized user of computing device other personal identification attributes or factors any combination thereof and so forth.

In various example embodiments one or more items that access may be restricted to e.g. limit a user to using exclude a user from using limit a user to using a portion of but not all features of exclude a user from using a portion of but not all features of a combination thereof etc. may include by way of example but not limitation one or more electronic items that may have been open or running prior to a level of authentication change of the computing device electronic items that were accessible through the computing device e.g. electronic documents and files that were stored in the computing device electronic documents that were stored remotely but retrievable viewable on computing device a combination thereof etc. prior to an alteration of the level of authentication of the computing device any combination thereof and so forth.

In certain example embodiments statistical level determination module may be configured to apply statistical algorithms comparative analysis statistical probability functions combinations thereof etc. to determine a statistical level of authentication for computing device . In one embodiment statistical level determination module may apply a weighting function which determines a level of authentication based on received data from scanners or other devices and a behavioral fingerprint with each received data having a predetermined weight regarding relevance to authentication. Statistical level determination module may additionally or alternatively analyze anomalous actions to determine or infer a level of authentication. To further determine or at least infer that the computing device should have a low level of authentication statistical examination analysis of a detected anomalous action of the computing device may involve comparing detected anomalies of the computing device with catalogued anomalous actions or a library of anomalous actions which may be stored in the memory of the computing device or at a remote location that are identified as being actions associated with for example a transfer of computing device a dropping of computing device an action incompatible with the stored predicted future actions of an authorized user an alert received from a social network that an expected or previously possessory authorized user does not have possession of computing device any combination thereof and so forth.

For certain example embodiments computing device may maintain in its memory see a behavioral fingerprint library that may include a catalogue or library of actions inputs movements received network data e.g. including anomalous data that have been previously identified as anomalous that may be received if for example a computing device is stolen or used by another user a social network query fails to return appropriate confirmatory data that confirms that an authorized user is in control of computing device any combination thereof and so forth. Thus if anomalous movements inputs actions etc. that have been detected match something in a library of anomalous observations e.g. indicating movements inputs actions etc. a determination or inference may be made that a level of authentication should be altered. The level of authentication can be lowered for example such that first user is determined to have a lowest level of authentication.

In certain example embodiments behavioral fingerprint interaction module may receive data from behavior fingerprint module or behavioral fingerprint library . Behavioral fingerprint interaction module can apply data relating to one or more behavioral fingerprints of authorized users to determine a level of authentication. More particularly level of authentication module may be configured to receive a behavioral fingerprint as a list set matrix etc. of activities warnings anomalous actions any combination thereof and so forth. Additional example details related to the level of authentication module as well as the above described sub modules of the level of authentication module will be provided below with respect to the operations and processes to be described herein.

Referring now to a particular example implementation of an access restricting module of is illustrated. Access restricting module of the computing device of can be configured to restrict access e.g. hiding or disguising existence of features or data denying viewing or editorial access to files or services converting to read only form barring any access to a feature or service combinations thereof etc. via the computing device to one or more items e.g. documents image audio or video files passwords applications or portions features thereof services that cost money designated content any combination thereof etc. or preventing one or more actions by computing device .

As illustrated the access restricting module may include one or more sub logic modules in various alternative example implementations. For example in various implementations the access restricting module may include a partial access providing module a no access module a viewing access restricting module which may further include a visual hiding module that may further include a visual replacing module an audio access restricting module which may further include an audio hiding module that may further include an audio replacing module an editorial restricted format presenting module a functional restricting format presenting module an open item ascertaining module a document access restricting module which may further include a productivity document access restricting module a message access restricting module an image document access restricting module an audio document access restricting module a combination thereof etc. a password access restricting module any combination thereof and so forth. As further illustrated in the access restricting module in various example implementations may include an application access restriction module which may further include a productivity application access restriction module a communication application access restriction module a personal information manager application access restriction module a combination thereof etc. an affiliation ascertaining module any combination thereof and so forth. As further illustrated in in various example implementations the affiliation ascertaining module may include one or more sub modules including an identifier affiliation ascertaining module which may further include a name affiliation ascertaining module an image affiliation ascertaining module a voice pattern affiliation ascertaining module a combination thereof etc. an address ascertaining module a source ascertaining module a word phrase number affiliation ascertaining module any combination thereof and so forth.

An example of how access restricting module may operate includes determining if one or more productivity documents comprise word processing documents and restricting access to such items which may involve hiding or disguising representations of the documents in a directory e.g. omitting document names or subject headings in a directory or replacing the document names or subject headings in the directory with pseudo names or subject headings . Alternatively a non editable form of the documents may be presented in order to restrict access to such documents. If alternatively one or more items comprise one or more software applications restricting access to such items may involve denying use of one or more functionalities associated with the items e.g. applications . For example if the one or more items include a word processing application restricting access to such a word processing application may include disabling one or more editing functions of the application while allowing general access to the word processing application e.g. permitting viewing of files . For example if the one or more items include a social networking or communication application restricting access to such an application may include disabling one or more abilities to initiate outgoing communications e.g. send an email send a text or IM post to a wall send a tweet a combination thereof etc. while allowing one or more abilities to view or otherwise experience incoming communications e.g. read a received email hear a received voice mail read a text or IM read wall postings read a Twitter feed a combination thereof etc. .

One example way to monitor actions taken by first user with respect to computing device is to directly detect such actions using one or more sensors such as any of those shown in that are designed to directly detect measure activities by first user of computing device . Sensors can be integrated with computing device and may be used to detect an action taken with respect to the computing device as the computing device is being used by first user . For example a fingerprint detection sensor or a facial recognition sensor can provide fingerprint data or facial data that may be used to determine whether first user is an authorized user of computing device . Once first user is determined to be or is otherwise associated with an authorized user of computing device a behavioral fingerprint associated with the associated authorized user can be accessed. The behavioral fingerprint module can process data received by behavioral fingerprint library and provide behavioral fingerprint data to level of authentication module . In an example embodiment level of authentication module may receive behavioral fingerprint data from behavioral fingerprint library and determine an accessibility aspect of computing device based at least in part on the determined behavioral fingerprint.

For certain example embodiments referring now to a computer server of may include at least a portion of functionality that is similar analogous comparable etc. to that of computing device . As such illustrates a level of authentication module an access restricting module a behavioral fingerprint module an alert generating module a memory which may store one or more applications one or more computer readable instructions or a library of behavioral fingerprints one or more processors e.g. microprocessors controllers etc. or a network interface e.g. network interface card or NIC . Although not explicitly referenced above descriptions of level of authentication module access restricting module behavioral fingerprint module and alert generating module may respectively apply to level of authentication module access restricting module behavioral fingerprint module and alert generating module unless context dictates otherwise.

In various example embodiments logic modules level of authentication module behavioral fingerprint module access restricting module or alert generating module of the computer server of can be implemented by the one or more processors executing computer readable instructions e.g. software and or firmware that may be stored in memory .

Note that although illustrates logic modules e.g. level of authentication module access restricting module behavioral fingerprint module or alert generating module being implemented at least partially using processor based modules circuitry based components e.g. such as an ASIC may be used to implement one or more of them. For instance a combination of specifically designed circuitry such as at least one ASIC or other types of circuitry such as field programmable gate arrays or FPGAs and one or more processors executing computer readable instructions may be used to implement one or more logic modules. For example in some embodiments at least one logic module may be implemented using specially designed circuitry e.g. an ASIC and a second logic module may be implemented using a processor or other types of programmable circuitry such as an FPGA executing computer readable instructions e.g. software and or firmware . A combination of software or firmware and circuitry may be implemented to realize certain ones of the example embodiments described herein for example one or more logic modules may be designed to use an efficient combination of software hardware firmware in order to expeditiously implement methods or systems within the scope of the present disclosure.

In various example embodiments memory of a computer server of may comprise one or more of a mass storage device read only memory ROM programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM cache memory such as random access memory RAM flash memory synchronous random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM distributed memory hierarchical memory storage area network memory other types of memory devices any combination thereof and so forth. In various example embodiments one or more applications stored in memory may include for example an operating system one or more productivity applications such as a word processing application or a spreadsheet application one or more communication applications any combination thereof and so forth.

Referring now to an example behavioral fingerprint library is shown with more particularity. Computing device or computer server may maintain in its memory see and a behavioral fingerprint library see also and which may comprise a catalog or library that identifies a plurality of actions by one or more users. Examples of user actions may include but are not limited to network interactions such as social network interactions which may include one or more alerts relating to one or more users that if detected as occurring may be considered to at least imply that computing device is being used by an authorized user. includes examples modules or functionalities that may be present at or performed by computing device or computer server . In the case of computer server the functionalities of the various example modules can be replicated for a plurality of computer devices or authorized users of one or more computer devices as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art. For example computer server can be implemented as part of a computer farm such as may exist in a cloud computing setting and enable productivity applications or communications applications to be performed provided or otherwise realized via cloud computing technologies. As such functional or modular replications may be included within the scope of the present application.

As shown in for certain example embodiments a behavioral fingerprint library may include at least one social network library at least one authorized user library at least one anomalous activity library at least one cryptographic library any combination thereof and so forth. Example aspects of libraries that may form at least a part of a behavioral fingerprint library are described below with reference to at least

For certain example embodiments a social network library can be configured to store interactions between authorized users and one or more other entities. For example one or more social networks may include Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Pinterest Instagram Classmates combinations thereof and so forth. Social network library can be configured to store messages or other data relating to one or more social networks such that behavioral fingerprint module can determine if action should be taken based on the messages. For example an authorized user of computing device or another device via computer server or over network may post a message via a social network indicating that computing device is no longer under his her control. Computing device may automatically receive such a post over a network connection or from computer server via network interface and provide it to social network library which may create or prompt a lowered level of authentication for first user possibly before first user even attempts to use computing device . A higher level of authentication may be reestablished by an authorized user of computing device after return of possession of the computing device so that an authorized user may have full functionality of computing device or so as to restore a prior e.g. higher level of authentication or the like.

In certain example implementations a social network library can identify any messages with aspects indicative of being relevant to authentication. A social network library can be configured to identify key words such as stolen or lost and to pass on a warning notification to behavioral fingerprint module or level of authentication module for further processing. In one embodiment network library may apply at least one search algorithm to identify key word s to assist in determining behaviors that are authentication positive or authentication negative. For example stolen or lost may be deemed to be authentication negative key words. Conversely a current message from a current friend on Facebook in conjunction with a response using computing device may be deemed to be authentication positive. Moreover indications that an authorized user of computing device is interacting with previously verified or identified friends on Facebook or more generally with previously verified or identified known members of a social network may be deemed to be authentication positive.

For certain example embodiments a behavioral fingerprint library e.g. of may include an authorized user library which may include a library of authorized users of computing device . Computing device computer server one or more accounts on computer server a combination thereof etc. can be associated with one or more authorized users. Authorized users can include by way of example but not limitation an owner or several owners e.g. co owners as well as users with varying degrees of permission for using computing device or other computer devices. Authorized user library can include profiles for each authorized user including one or more passwords. Behavioral fingerprint module or level of authentication module can be individually or jointly associated with one or more authorized users or associated with a single authorized user in accordance with system settings or configuration preferences. For example each authorized user can have a separate designated behavioral fingerprint or multiple authorized users may share at least one behavioral fingerprint. When first user is identified as one of a plurality of authorized users a behavioral fingerprint for that authorized user may be associated with first user and a corresponding level of authentication can be determined.

For certain example embodiments a behavioral fingerprint library e.g. of may include an anomalous activity library . Anomalous activity library may include data indicating that an anomalous activity has taken place data that represents activity that has been previously identified as being deemed anomalous any combination thereof and so forth. In one embodiment an authorized user can store or log activities that the user has predetermined to be anomalous. For example an authorized user may provide a list of area codes for which the computing device when operated as a phone would consider anomalous. An area code list may include for instance all foreign country phone numbers specific area codes or the like that the authorized user would not normally call from computing device . An authorized user may further identify actions that would be deemed anomalous for that authorized user. Identified actions may include by way of example but not limitation device usage during designated times of day positioning carrying a device to locations e.g. as determined by a GPS that are indicated to be areas an authorized user considered anomalous application specific actions identified as anomalous a combination thereof and so forth. An example of application specific actions may include deletion of significant amounts of data logging into a social network as a user that is not an authorized user of computing device combinations thereof and so forth. In an example embodiment an anomalous activity library may log one or more activities that are received via a network and that are determined to be anomalous. For instance a social networked entity can post a message via a social network that is monitored by a computing device or a computer server that includes a warning or other indication of at least one unsafe condition associated with computing device . An anomalous activity library may be configured to log a warning so that a behavioral fingerprint module can determine whether to associate the warning with an authorized user.

For certain example embodiments a behavioral fingerprint library e.g. of may include a cryptographic library . A cryptographic library may include by way of example but not limitation data such as passwords public private key pair data other cryptographic keys such as the types used in block ciphers such as Triple DES or substitution permutation algorithms like AES any combination thereof and so forth. As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art Triple DES data may be encrypted with a first key decrypted with a second key and then encrypted again with a third key resulting in e.g. 168 bit encryption. AES encryption can use variable key lengths. For example keys used in AES can have lengths of e.g. 128 192 or 256 bits to encrypt blocks with a length of e.g. 128 bits. As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art with the benefit of the present application key lengths and cryptographic techniques can change over time as computing capabilities change and progress. As such the key lengths and cryptographic techniques described herein are exemplary only and not intended to be limiting in any way.

For an example implementation a cryptographic library can receive data from one or more social networks or other designated sources to create or reconstruct regenerate one or more cryptographic keys such as to create or reconstruct an encryption key a decryption key or a key pair. For example as part of an authorized user s behavioral fingerprint the authorized user may assign parts of a cryptographic key or one or more components derived therefrom such as an asymmetric or a symmetric key to one or more members e.g. friends of a social network. In the current state of the art an asymmetric key may include a public key e.g. a public encryption key that does not need to be kept secret or a private key e.g. a private decryption key that is generally kept secret and a symmetric key may include a secret key that is typically protected by reducing if not minimizing its exposure.

For purposes of the present application in example embodiments presented herein the terms asymmetric key symmetric key encryption key decryption key public key private key etc. are intended to contemplate and or encompass possible changes in cryptographic algorithms for which different types of cryptographic keys may be involved to provide protection. Furthermore example embodiments herein contemplate the re emergence and or generation of cryptographic systems wherein cryptographic keys may be made public and the specific cryptographic algorithms used to generate or apply cryptographic keys may instead be kept secret. For example in an attempt to thwart piracy some computer gaming software systems now execute certain security code s on a remote server instead of the local device. In this case the data may be known but the code implementing the algorithm may be kept secret. The use of the terms cryptographic asymmetric symmetric public private etc. should not be interpreted as being restricted to current forms of public private key pair cryptography or to other current forms of cryptography but rather to more general cases of establishing a means of secure communication with some aspect being kept secret. For example key based cryptography may be e.g. symmetrical or asymmetrical with some aspect being known and or some aspect being unknown.

In certain example embodiments if an anomalous event occurs which causes an authorized user s behavioral fingerprint to be compromised an authorized user can reestablish a behavioral fingerprint by notifying each designated social network member to send a portion of a cryptographic key or a component that is derived therefrom so that if the key is reconstructed the behavioral fingerprint may be rebuilt.

For certain example embodiments with reference to a behavioral fingerprint module is shown in more detail. Behavioral fingerprint module may receive data from behavioral fingerprint library e.g. of and . Behavioral fingerprint module is shown by way of example but not limitation including at least one initialization module at least one fingerprint build degradation module or at least one fingerprint generation module .

For certain example embodiments an initialization module may be configured to determine an initial behavioral fingerprint associated with an authorized user. An initial behavioral fingerprint may be based at least partially for example on data entered by an authorized user data obtained from a behavioral fingerprint library data obtained from sensor s data received from another location e.g. a computing device receiving behavioral fingerprint data from a server a server receiving behavioral fingerprint data from a computing device etc. any combination thereof and so forth.

For certain example embodiments a fingerprint build degradation module may be configured to determine if an initial behavioral fingerprint should be altered due to data obtained from a behavioral fingerprint library date obtained from sensor s data received from another location any combination thereof and so forth.

For certain example embodiments a fingerprint generation module may be configured to determine a current behavioral fingerprint for a first user that is determined to be an authorized user attempting to operate computing device . A fingerprint generation module may be configured to determine a behavioral fingerprint for an established authorized user based on network data received while computing device is coupled to a network connection. In a case in which a fingerprint generation module exists in a cloud computing setting or on a computer server a fingerprint generation module may be configured to determine a network based behavioral fingerprint for a plurality of users when logging into a network a cloud computing system a computer server any combination thereof and so forth.

For certain example embodiments a behavioral fingerprint can be determined before a first user handles a computing device . In some example embodiments a manufacturer can set a behavioral fingerprint or a level of authentication based e.g. at least partially on information received from a first user when ordering a computing device . For example a manufacture may preconfigure one or more user names passwords combinations thereof etc. prior to shipping or selling a computing device . At least in an environment that includes at least one computer server a behavioral fingerprint can be transferred from another device such as one or more of devices to a computing device . Whether a level of authentication or a behavioral fingerprint controls or otherwise affects the accessibility and actions available to a first user may depend on system requirements which may be adjustable. For example a behavioral fingerprint may indicate that computing device has been stolen and in such a case a behavioral fingerprint library may be configured to notify a level of authentication module of exigent circumstances indicating that a reduced access to computing device is advisable. Thus by way of example but not limitation a computer server may have access to a behavioral fingerprint library or a computing device may have access to a behavioral fingerprint library and at least one of them may notify a level of authentication module or of exigent circumstances.

Additionally or alternatively in example embodiments a behavioral fingerprint module may be configured to reconstruct some type of cryptographic key such as a private key of an asymmetric key pair or a Triple DES or AES type symmetric key after an anomalous event. A behavioral fingerprint module may be configured to notify a level of authentication module that an authorized user should have a level of authentication that allows access.

In example embodiments behavioral fingerprint module can receive data related to various types of movements actions inputs combinations thereof etc. that are related to a computing device . For example an initial behavioral fingerprint generated by a behavioral fingerprint module may be configured to communicate to a level of authentication module one or more predetermined or determinable inputs to computing device and or computer server to provide access.

Other examples of movements actions inputs combinations thereof etc. that may be tracked for purposes of determining a behavioral fingerprint may include by way of example but not limitation individually or in any combination those detected or tracked using one or more sensors that may be included with or accessible to a computing device as illustrated in . In various example embodiments one or more movement sensors GPS geographical location sensors a combination thereof etc. may directly detect movements or one or more of other types of sensors e.g. image capturing devices audio capturing devices a combination thereof etc. may be able to indirectly detect movements e.g. as sensed images sound a combination thereof etc. change . One or more additional or predetermined actions may be employed to confirm other actions taken with respect to a computing device as will be further described herein. Other type s of sensor may relate to how a person uses an input device such as a physical or virtual keyboard or keypad or a touch screen or a voice input. For example such sensor s may determine a particular way in which a first user types e.g. in terms of timing between presses duration of presses locations of finger contacts combinations thereof etc. on a keyboard of a computing device or uses pressure on keys a touch sensitive screen or another input apparatus of a computing device . For example a first user may repetitively use particular keys with a particular pressure or the like. At least one key usage pattern may be employed in a behavioral fingerprint module to build on a behavioral fingerprint with a fingerprint build degradation module for example.

For certain example embodiments a type or types of access to be restricted in response to determining that a computing device or a computer server has altered a level of authentication for first user may depend on one or more factors including e.g. what types of actions are requested. For example if the one or more items to which access is being at least partially restricted comprise one or more software applications herein applications then a type of access restriction may include restriction to e.g. limit a user to using exclude a user from using limit a user to using a portion of but not all features of exclude a user from using a portion of but not all features of a combination thereof etc. one or more functionalities of the one or more applications. Additionally or alternatively access restriction or disabling of one or more applications may entail having access to the one or more applications being for instance completely blocked or hidden. In contrast if the one or more items to which access is being at least partially restricted comprise one or more electronic documents e.g. productivity documents image audio or video files a combination thereof etc. then a type of access restriction that may be applied to such items may relate to one or more editorial access restrictions e.g. restrictions against modification deletion addition a combination thereof etc. of the items as a function of the level of authentication. Additionally or alternatively automatic actions or tasks may be restricted or disabled as a function of a lowered level of authentication or automatic actions or tasks may be enhanced or enabled as a function of a raised level of authentication.

In certain example implementations restricting access to one or more items may include restricting viewing access to the one or more items or in other cases it may include restricting audio access to the one or more items. In example implementations restricting access to one or more items or one or more actions may include a complete restriction to access of the one or more items or the one or more actions or restricting access to one or more items or one or more actions may include a partial restriction to access of the one or more items or the one or more actions. A more detailed description related to various example types of access restrictions that may be applied to one or more items or one or more actions is provided below with respect to operations and processes described herein.

In certain example embodiments a computing device in response to restricting access to one or more items or preventing one or more automatic actions may be configured to generate an alert that indicates that the computing device has been adjusted to restrict access to the one or more items or disable the one or more automatic actions. In certain example implementations an alert can be transmitted from received at exchanged between a combination thereof etc. computer server or computing device depending on a source of the alert and an exigency of the alert.

A more detailed discussion related to examples of a computing device of is provided with respect to the processes and operations described herein below. illustrates an example operational flow representing example operations for among other things restricting access via a computing device to one or more items e.g. software applications electronic documents including productivity documents audio video or image files electronic messages including emails passwords combinations thereof etc. . In and in the following figures that include various examples of operational flows discussions and explanations are provided with respect to an exemplary environment described above and as illustrated in or with respect to other examples e.g. as provided in or contexts. However it should be understood that the operational flows may be executed in a number of other environments and contexts or in modified versions of or or or . Also although various operational flows are presented in particular sequence s as illustrated it should be understood that example operations may be performed in other orders that differ from those which are illustrated or may be performed fully or partially concurrently.

Further in and in figures that follow thereafter various example operations may be depicted in a box within a box manner. Such depictions may indicate that an operation illustrated in an internal box may comprise an optional example embodiment of the operation s illustrated in one or more external boxes. However it should be understood that internal box operations may be viewed as independent operations separate from any associated external boxes and may be performed in any sequence with respect to other illustrated operations or may be performed fully or partially concurrently. Still further those operations illustrated in as well as other operations described herein may be performed by at least one of a machine an article of manufacture a composition of matter or a combination thereof etc. unless indicated otherwise.

For certain example embodiments after a start operation operational flow of may move to an example association operation for determining that a first user of a computing device is associated with the computing device. For instance and as an non limiting illustration a level of authentication module of a computing device of may determine that a computing device used by a first user e.g. an unknown user having relatively inferior access rights or an authorized user of a computing device having relatively superior access rights has turned on logged onto e.g. entered a user identification and password into starting using a combination thereof etc. computing device . Note that in certain example implementations a first user may use the computing device by logging onto the computing device or by employing the computing device to access one or more applications or content that may be accessible through the computing device . In addition to the association operation operational flow may also include a level of authentication operation for determining a level of authentication associated with the first user via the computing device the level of authentication at least partially based on a behavioral fingerprint as further illustrated in . For instance and as a non limiting illustration level of authentication module may determine a level of authentication for first user . A level of authentication can be configured to restrict access to e.g. limit a user to using exclude a user from using limit a user to using a portion of but not all features of exclude a user from using a portion of but not all features of a combination thereof etc. one or more items or actions related to a computing device as a function of the level of authentication assigned to first user . If first user is identified as an authorized user level of authentication module can be configured to take into account a behavioral fingerprint associated with that authorized user. By way of example only a computing device that identifies a first user as an authorized user may incorporate actions of the first user with the computing device into a behavioral fingerprint that is generated built degraded or modified e.g. at least partially by behavioral fingerprint module . As another example a computing device may identify a first user as being an authorized user or as not being an authorized user or as being an authorized user with partial access rights etc. by comparing current sensed action s of the first user to an existing behavioral fingerprint e.g. at least partially by a level of authentication module using for instance a statistical mechanism that reflects a probabilistic likelihood that one or more current actions by a first user are being performed or otherwise effectuated by a user e.g. an authorized user that is associated with an existing behavioral fingerprint.

In addition to level of authentication operation operational flow as illustrated includes operation for determining via the computing device that the first user has made a request for performance of a task. For instance as a non limiting illustration a user interface of a computing device may receive an input from first user to access an application to access a document or file to pay for something using computing device to open a device using computing device to perform an action within an application e.g. change a file make an outgoing communication read a new incoming communication may a purchase a combination thereof etc. to install an application to make a phone call any combination thereof and so forth. Operation as illustrated may be followed by operation for performing the task automatically without interference by the first user as a function of the level of authentication of the first user. For instance as a non limiting illustration a level of authentication module of a computing device of e.g. of may determine automatically without interference by a first user e.g. without prompting of first user without requiring first user to enter authentication related information such as a password a manual input pattern a biometric input pattern combinations thereof etc. without asking first user for additional input such as confirmation a combination thereof etc. that first user is an authorized user and may perform a requested task e.g. may activate one of applications may access stored or streamable downloadable content may permit a purchase may make an outgoing combination may install an application a combination thereof etc. automatically based at least partially on a level of authentication associated with or assigned to the first user .

As will be further described herein a level of authentication operation of may be executed in a variety of different ways in various alternative implementations. or for example illustrate at least some of the alternative ways that operation of may be executed in various alternative example implementations. For example in various implementations operation of may include an operation for determining the behavioral fingerprint via establishing a statistical predictability of one or more future actions of an authorized user of the computing device as depicted in . For instance a behavioral fingerprint module may determine a behavioral fingerprint of first user by establishing that first user is an authorized user e.g. a user that has previously authenticated herself or himself a user that was previously determined to be authentic a combination thereof etc. of computing device or by generating a behavioral fingerprint via fingerprint build degradation module or via fingerprint generation module . In certain example implementations authentication may be accomplished when a user first registers a profile account etc. on a device e.g. after a purchase or a hard reset authentication may be accomplished when if one or more sign ins e.g. entry of a password PIN pattern a combination thereof etc. are performed by a user authentication may be accomplished when if one or more user ID secret information combinations e.g. entry of an account name email address individualized identification a combination thereof etc. along with a corresponding password PIN pattern a combination thereof etc. are entered by a user authentication may be accomplished if a device is used as part of a transaction that involves additional e.g. non virtual multi level a combination thereof etc. authentication protocols including but not limited to presenting a physical form of identification e.g. a government issued photo ID copies of bills or financial statements a combination thereof etc. entering multiple user ID secret information combinations a combination thereof etc. some combination of such authentications and so forth. In certain example implementations a behavioral fingerprint can include or be developed using statistical calculations that are based on prior actions to predict future actions of an authorized user. For instance sensed actions may be correlated to frequency of occurrence e.g. number of times per day or per hour locations of occurrence e.g. geographical or network locations times of occurrence e.g. between 8 and 9 am each morning combinations thereof etc. different sensed actions that repeatedly occur together spatially or temporally may be cataloged e.g. an authorized user buys coffee at a known location consumes news from two known web sites and then drives his her car away from the known location sensed actions that have a particular characteristic e.g. a device is pressed with a known force when typed or swiped or held at a known angle when in use may be recorded combinations thereof and so forth. Statistical analysis of such correlations cataloged data recorded characteristics etc. may produce probabilistic likelihoods that a given action is to occur in the future at a particular frequency at particular locations at particular times in conjunction with other actions in a particular manner or way a combination thereof and so forth.

As further illustrated in in some example implementations a level of authentication operation may additionally or alternatively include an operation for sensing one or more actions of an authorized user. For instance sensors or a level of authentication module of a computing device e.g. of may determine that first user is an authorized user or may process sensed data for forming or updating a behavioral fingerprint based at least in part on data provided by one or more sensors e.g. a satellite positioning system SPS or other geographical location providing unit a microphone a camera a touch sensor a gyroscope an accelerometer an inertial measurement unit IMU a software sensor that detects electronic usage e.g. websites visited content presented games played people contacted a combination thereof etc. combinations thereof etc. .

Data from various types of sensors may be used in order to determine a level of authentication of a computing device . For example and as further illustrated in an operation may be followed by an operation for applying a statistical value e.g. at least one datum relating to one or more occurrences of at least one action to the sensed one or more actions of the authorized user to establish a statistical predictability of one or more future actions of an authorized user. For instance a level of authentication module of a computing device of may apply a statistical level determination module e.g. to apply a statistical value with a probabilistic approach such as a likelihood function or Bayesian analysis to apply a statistical value with a stochastic mechanism such as a Gaussian function normalization or a correlation function to apply a statistical value with a histogram or other data conglomerating or data organizing tool any combination thereof etc. to actions taken by an authorized user having a behavioral fingerprint of a behavioral fingerprint library .

In some example implementations operation may include an operation for storing the sensed one or more actions of the authorized user as further depicted in . For instance memory which may include library of behavioral fingerprints of a computing device of may store an indication of a reference to a summary of a description of etc. one or more actions sensed by sensors or actions over a network such as social network interactions. Additionally or alternatively a computing device may store one or more sensed actions remotely such as at another device at a server a combination thereof and so forth.

In the same or different example implementations operation may include an operation for detecting the one or more actions of the authorized user wherein the one or more actions of the authorized user include logging into one or more social networks. For instance a level of authentication module of a computing device of may determine that first user is operating computing device as an authorized user and a communication application comprises or is running a social network application. Data that reflects interactions with a social network application e.g. blogs read people contacted pictures viewed videos played comments made e.g. writing on a wall sending a personal message to a particular person or particular people sending a public message etc. comments responded to content forwarded content approved e.g. liked plus oned re tweeted etc. people followed combinations thereof etc. may be stored in behavioral fingerprint library .

In the same or alternative example implementations operation may include an operation for detecting one or more keystrokes on the computing device to determine a pattern of use associated with the authorized user. For instance a level of authentication module of a computing device of may detect via movement sensors e.g. including touch or pressure sensors one or more keystrokes on computing device to determine a pattern of use e.g. force applied generally or to particular keys a speed of key presses a cadence of key presses a rhythm of key presses a group or number of keys that are often pressed in succession more quickly than an overall typing speed a location of finger contact on virtual keyboards a combination thereof etc. associated with an authorized user.

In certain example implementations an operation may include an operation for detecting one or more manners for swiping input on the computing device to determine a pattern of use associated with the authorized user as depicted in . For instance a level of authentication module of a computing device of may detect via movement sensors e.g. including touch or pressure sensors manners of swiping an input on computing device to determine a pattern of use e.g. swipes may exhibit a common length or particular lengths that vary based on context swipes may exhibit a typical speed of finger movement swipes may exhibit a frequent direction or angle of movement swipes may exhibit a typical location on a screen with respect to a top middle or bottom of a relevant targeted area such as a whole displayed page of a multi page document or with respect to a precision of a visually guided swipe zone such as to unlock a screen swipes may exhibit a recurring usage pattern in lieu of other device manipulation options such as swiping in lieu of pressing a particular menu item or defined touch sensitive zone to turn a page any combination thereof etc. associated with an authorized user.

In certain example implementations an operation may include an operation for detecting one or more contacts frequently interacted with by the authorized user on the computing device to determine an interaction pattern associated with the authorized user as depicted in . For instance a level of authentication module of a computing device of may detect via social network library an interaction pattern e.g. an identity of one or more contacts interacted with a particular program or social network used to interact with one or more contacts a length of time each of one or more contacts is interacted with an order of interaction between or among one or more contacts whether interactions are to send communications to or receive communications from one or more contacts whether multiples contacts are simultaneously interacted with whether communications are commingled between or among one or more contacts e.g. individual interactions or group interactions whether a same one or more contacts are interacted with across multiple social networks what type s of communications e.g. phone call email text instant message posting wall writing tweeting pinning a combination thereof etc. are used with particular contacts recurrences thereof any combination thereof etc. associated with an authorized user.

In certain example implementations an operation may include an operation which provides for storing at least one image of the authorized user for comparison to a detected image of the first user that is obtainable via a camera accessible by the computing device. For instance a computing device may use a behavioral fingerprint library or an authorized user library to store at least one image of an authorized user. A level of authentication module or a behavioral fingerprint module may compare e.g. using facial recognition analysis a stored image of an authorized user with an image of first user that is obtained via a camera e.g. one or more sensors such as an image capturing device or a camera a camera that is coupled to a computing device by wire a camera that is coupled to a computing device wirelessly a camera that is owned or controlled by the first user a camera that is owned or controlled by another entity such as a friend or family member a business associate a store engaging in a transaction with computing device or first user a camera associated with a cash register a camera associated with a security system any combination thereof etc. accessible to computing device . A comparison of a stored image to a current image may reveal that first user is statistically likely to be an authorized user or statistically unlikely to be an authorized user.

Referring to operation of in certain example implementations an operation can include operation for altering the level of authentication of the first user as a function of the statistical predictability of the one or more future actions of the authorized user. For instance a computing device may alter e.g. raise or lower a general or specific level of authentication of a first user using a level of authentication module as a function of a statistical probability which may be determined via a statistical level determination module with regard to one or more potential future actions of an authorized user. For example sensed current actions of a first user may be considered with reference to a probabilistic likelihood of future actions by an authorized user with the probabilistic likelihood derived from a statistical predictability of potential future actions. By way of example but not limitation if sensed current action s match with likely future action s a level of authentication may be maintained or raised. If on the other hand sensed current action s fail to match with likely future action s a level of authentication may be maintained or lowered. A probabilistic strength of a likelihood of future actions may be considered when determining if action s match or when determining a resulting effect on a level of authentication.

In the same or different example implementations operation may include an operation for lowering the level of authentication of the first user if one or more actions of the first user include a detected anomalous action as further depicted in . For instance an anomalous action detecting module of a computing device may detect an anomalous action with respect to use of computing device during use of computing device by first user and may at least partially cause a level of authentication module to lower a level of authentication e.g. change a level of authentication such that one or more things e.g. applications files contents actions whole devices application features a combination thereof etc. that were capable of being accessed performed acted upon etc. are no longer capable of being accessed performed acted upon etc. or have a reduced level of being accessed performed acted upon etc. with respect to first user .

In various example implementations operation for lowering the level of authentication of the first user if one or more actions of the first user include a detected anomalous action may include an operation for detecting that the first user has performed an action uncharacteristic of the authorized user and or that the first user has performed an action previously identified by the authorized user as being an action to cause lowering of the level of authentication. For instance a computing device a behavioral fingerprint library or an anomalous activity library may alert a level of authentication module or a behavioral fingerprint library of an anomalous action e.g. an action that is statistically unlikely in comparison to those future actions having a determined statistically predictable likelihood in accordance with a behavioral fingerprint and or an action that an authorized user has labeled as or otherwise indicated as being anomalous such as trying to make a purchase over 20 or accessing a particular person s social networking profile which indicated anomalous actions may be stored in anomalous activity library that has been performed by a first user .

In certain example implementations an operation can include operation for alerting a predetermined set of contacts if the statistical predictability of the one or more future actions of the authorized user in conjunction with one or more detected actions results in a predetermined level of authentication of the first user. For instance a computing device may alert a predetermined set of contacts e.g. one or more people or groups of people participating in one or more social networks via e.g. social network library and network interface if a statistical level determination module determines that a statistical predictability of one or more future actions of an authorized user in conjunction with e.g. in comparison to based on at least one correlation including a combination thereof etc. one or more detected actions e.g. actions that are sensed contemporaneously or currently actions that are sensed recently such as from the present to a predetermined period of time in the past actions that have been sensed since a most recent authentication actions leading up to an anomalous action a combination thereof etc. results in a predetermined level of authentication e.g. reaches a predetermined sufficiently low level of authentication fails to reach a predetermined sufficiently high level of authentication drops a predetermined level of authentication a combination thereof etc. of a first user e.g. because a comparison of one or more detected actions by first user fails to produce a sufficiently high level of correspondence with or does produce a sufficiently low level of correspondence with statistically predicted one or more future actions of an authorized user . A predetermined level of authentication determined for a first user may comprise or correspond to a determination that first user has stolen computing device that first user is on a list of users that are unauthorized for use of computing device generally or use of a particular feature application content capability of computing device that first user has entered a particular number of incorrect passwords that first user is not on a list of authorized users a combination thereof etc. which may result in a lowered level of authentication.

In certain example implementations an operation can include an operation for disabling one or more devices of the authorized user if the level of authentication of the first user is lowered to a predetermined level. For instance a computing device may disable one or more devices e.g. other devices cars locking devices point of sale devices cash dispensing devices a combination thereof etc. for which computing device has control if a level of authentication determined by level of authentication module is altered to a lower predetermined level. The one or more devices can be configured to be automatically disabled without interference e.g. confirmation command input verification capability to belay disablement warning a combination thereof etc. by a first user or an authorized user.

In certain example implementations an operation can include an operation for disabling at least one functionality of a mobile device of the authorized user if the level of authentication of the first user is lowered to a predetermined level. For instance a computing device may disable at least one functionality of a mobile device e.g. a mobile phone a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA an e reader a laptop a slate tablet computer a portable entertainment device a combination thereof etc. when or if a level of authentication for a first user that is determined by a level of authentication module is altered to a lower predetermined level e.g. lowered to a given absolute level of authentication a level of authentication that is lowered by a given amount a combination thereof etc. . For certain example implementations functionality that might be disabled may include but is not limited to making purchases installing or starting or using apps generally or specifically enumerated apps communicating via social media communicating with an entity that is not already of record e.g. that is not already listed in a device s contacts previously communicated with using some application a combination thereof etc. visiting a web page that has not previously been visited e.g. is not listed in a browsing history visiting an adult oriented web page making international calls downloading or streaming media any combination thereof and so forth. For certain example implementations functionality that might not be disabled may include but is not limited to making emergency e.g. 911 calls making calls to one or more designated numbers e.g. a number or an alternative number of an authorized user communicating with one or more designated contacts e.g. an email address a text message destination a social media outlet etc. that is affiliated with an authorized user using a mapping or navigating application any combination thereof and so forth. At least one functionality of a mobile device can be configured to be automatically disabled without interference e.g. without confirmation command input verification capability to belay disablement a combination thereof etc. by a first user or an authorized user.

For certain example embodiments with reference now to operation for determining a level of authentication associated with the first user via the computing device the level of authentication at least partially based on a behavioral fingerprint can include an operation for determining the level of authentication of the first user at least partially via a reconstructed key formed via gathered data from at least one social network. For instance a computing device a behavioral fingerprint library or a cryptographic library may receive key related data from at least one social network such as from one or more social networks stored in a social network library to reconstruct at least one cryptographic key e.g. at least part of an asymmetric key pair such as a public private key pair at least one Triple DES or AES type cryptographic key another cryptographic key type a combination thereof etc. . If a cryptographic key is reconstructed e.g. rebuilt reformed regenerated refashioned recreated reestablished reformulated reproduced a combination thereof etc. to form a reconstructed key from gathered data from at least one social network a level of authentication for a first user may be established at a predetermined level or raised by a predetermined amount.

In certain example implementations an operation may include an operation for generating a security certificate associated with an authorized user based at least partially on a cryptographic key. For instance a cryptographic library of a computing device may generate a security certificate that is associated with an authorized user based at least partially on a cryptographic key such as a triple DES or AES symmetric key such as at least one key of a private public asymmetric key pair a combination thereof and so forth. In doing so computing device may store a private portion or a public portion of a public private key pair or another cryptographic key type.

Additionally or alternatively operation may be followed by an operation for deriving one or more derived forms of the cryptographic key with the one or more derived forms capable of being distributed via the at least one social network to thereby enable reconstruction of the cryptographic key via the gathered data from the at least one social network. For instance a cryptographic scheme based on a public private key pair may use a private key to derive one or more derived forms of the private key e.g. a derived form of a private key may be produced if a private key is partitioned segmented hashed encrypted encoded rearranged manipulated a combination thereof etc. that can be distributed to one or more users members friends on at least one social network such as one or more social networks stored via a social network library . At least one of the one or more derived forms of a cryptographic key can later be gathered from the users members friends that belong to the at least one social network or used to reconstruct the cryptographic key e.g. at least one derived form of the cryptographic key may be retrieved from those that belong to the at least one social network using the at least one social network even if it were previously distributed outside of the social network at least one derived form of the cryptographic key that was distributed to those that belong to the at least one social network via the at least one social network may be retrieved from those that belong to the at least one social network separately from the at least one social network at least one derived form of the cryptographic may be both distributed and retrieved via the at least one social network etc. .

In certain example implementations an operation for determining the level of authentication of the first user at least partially via a reconstructed key formed via gathered data from at least one social network may include an operation for obtaining one or more cryptographic key pairs each cryptographic key pair including a public key and a private key. For instance a cryptographic library may obtain one or more cryptographic key pairs such as at least one private key for decrypting information and at least one public key for encrypting information. A cryptographic key pair may be generated locally or obtained from a remote source such as a server a certificate authority a combination thereof and so forth.

Additionally or alternatively an operation can be followed by an operation for partitioning the private key into two or more components of the private key at least a portion of the two or more components of the private key usable to form the reconstructed key. For instance a private key of a cryptographic key pair may be partitioned e.g. divided segmented separated into n components separated into equal sized components separated into unequal sized components separated into n bins by selecting every nth character for each bin any combination thereof etc. n representing an integer into at least two components. A least a portion of the two or more components of the private key may be used to form the reconstructed key e.g. by combining the components by concatenating the components by interlacing the components any combination thereof etc. .

Additionally or alternatively an operation can be followed by an operation for distributing the at least a portion of the two or more components of the private key to one or more members of the at least one social network. For instance a cryptographic library may distribute via a network interface at least a portion of the two or more components of the private key to one or more members of at least one social network which members may belong to one or more social networks as stored by a social network library . Distribution may be effectuated by way of example but not limitation using general communication protocols or features offered by at least one social network using cryptographic key specific communication protocols or features or APIs provided by at least one social network using communication protocols or options that are out of band from the social network e.g. using email addresses garnered via the at least one social network any combination thereof and so forth. Gathering of cryptographic key data from at least one social network may be effected for example using any one or more of the communication protocols features options etc. that are described above with reference to distribution with respect to social network s .

In certain example implementations an operation for distributing the at least a portion of the two or more components of the private key to one or more members of the at least one social network can include an operation for distributing the at least a portion of the two or more components of the private key to two or more members of the at least one social network. For instance a cryptographic library may distribute via a network interface at least a portion of the two or more components of the private key to two or more members of a social network. By way of example but not limitation if partitioned components of a private key are distributed to one or two or more than two members of a social network all or fewer than all partitioned components of a private key may be distributed to member s of a social network. Each recipient member may receive one or more than one component of a private key. Each component of a private key may be sent to one member of a social network or multiple members of a social network e.g. duplicate copies of private key components may be distributed to multiple social network members for redundancy in case a designated member is unavailable when a private key component is to be requested or otherwise retrieved . One or more components of a given private key may be distributed to social network member s without redundant duplication while other one or more components of the given private key may be distributed with redundant duplication. Other partitioned key component approaches may alternatively be employed.

In certain example implementations an operation for determining the level of authentication of the first user at least partially via a reconstructed key formed via gathered data from at least one social network can further include an operation for determining the gathered data from the at least one social network via retrieving one or more components that are derived from a private key from one or more members of the at least one social network the one or more components usable to form the reconstructed key. For instance a cryptographic library may via network interface gather data including one or more components that are derived from a private key from one or more members of the at least one social network which members may be stored with a social network library or remotely e.g. at a server related to a theft monitoring recovery service at a server related to at least one social network at a server managing behavioral fingerprints a combination thereof etc. . Gathered data including one or more components derived from a private key may be usable to form a reconstructed key that corresponds e.g. to a private key of a cryptographic public private key pair. Data including one or more components derived from a private key may be gathered using general social network communication features e.g. sending messages writing privately on a wall sending a private tweet a combination thereof etc. using at least one application programming interface API of a social network that is tailored to provide cryptographic key data using contact information acquired via a social network using contact information acquired via a social network and a communication path that is out of band from the social network any combination thereof and so forth. For example implementations a computing device may retrieve at least one component that is derived from a private key from one or more members of at least one social network automatically e.g. without explicit contemporaneous approval by a social network member via a social network interface after approval by a social network member by requesting verification from a social network member that an authorized user of computing device is believed to be in current possession of computing device any combination thereof and so forth. Two or more social network members that are capable of providing a same component usable to at least partially form a reconstructed key may be contacted to improve a likelihood that gathered data may be gathered from at least one member for each component to be retrieved. By way of example but not limitation a request to retrieve key components may be sent via e.g. at least one private social network message to members of at least one social network individually or as a group.

In certain example implementations an operation can include an operation for determining one or more members of the at least one social network from which to gather the gathered data each of the one or more members capable of providing at least one component that is adapted to contribute to forming the reconstructed key. For instance a computing device may determine one or more members of at least one social network via a social network library from which to gather e.g. retrieve request acquire obtain amalgamate reclaim a combination thereof etc. with each of the one or more members being capable of providing at least one component that is adapted to contribute to forming a reconstructed key via a cryptographic library e.g. contributing by providing at least a portion of cryptographic key contributing by indicating a cryptographic process for regenerating a key contributing by providing an input or modifier to a process for inversely deriving e.g. decoding de interlacing etc. a key contributing by indicating at least one avenue for recovering or rebuilding a key contributing by providing an address or pointer to any of the above a combination thereof etc. . By way of example but not limitation a determination of one or more members of at least one social network may be effected by a computing device by retrieving a stored group of social network members e.g. trusted social network members from memory may be effected by a computing device by retrieving identities e.g. names contact information social network communication links or identities a combination thereof etc. of members from at least one social network may be effected by a computing device by retrieving identified members from at least one server any combination thereof and so forth.

For certain example embodiments as illustrated in an operation may include an operation for restricting access via the computing device to one or more applications in response at least in part to the determining. For instance an access restriction module of a computing device may restrict access via computing device to e.g. limit a user to using exclude a user from using limit a user to using a portion of but not all features of exclude a user from using a portion of but not all features of a combination thereof etc. one or more items e.g. electronic documents including productivity documents such as word processing documents spreadsheets presentation slides a combination thereof etc. electronic documents including electronic messages such as emails instant messages social network messages comments including but not limited to those associated with a social network Twitter messages aka Tweets a combination thereof etc. image files audio files video files a combination thereof etc. applications passwords portion s of an operating system one or more features Wi Fi wireless broadband internet payment services order services etc. of a device combinations thereof and so forth in response to the determining by at least restricting access to the one or more items that were or would be accessible by an authorized user e.g. was or would be accessible visible editable commentable usable a combination thereof etc. by the authorized user when or if the authorized user was or is using the computing device . For instance an application access restriction module e.g. of of a computing device may restrict access via computing device to e.g. limit a user to using exclude a user from using limit a user to using a portion of but not all features of exclude a user from using a portion of but not all features of a combination thereof etc. one or more applications e.g. a productivity application such as a word processing application a communication application such as an IM application a gaming application a local application a web application e.g. that executes at least partially within a browser or remotely on a server a native application a remote application e.g. that executes at least partially in the cloud a combination thereof and so forth in response to the determining. In some example cases such restrictions to one or more applications may be related to restricting use of one or more functionalities of the one or more applications e.g. content viewing may be allowed but editing may be blocked viewing a social network site or stream may be permitted but adding input or comments may be prevented local usage may be allowed but internet connected usage may be barred application usage may be freely permitted until an application requires additional funds to continue or change capabilities which funds disbursement or payment may be disallowed a combination thereof etc. . In some example embodiments access can be complete for instance an access restricting module including a no access module e.g. of of a computing device may restrict access to one or more items that were or would be accessible by a first user if the first user were an authorized user of computing device by having the no access module provide no access e.g. completely hiding or erasing any indications of the existence of the one or more items renaming or disguising a true nature of an item blocking viewing of content preventing launch of an application a combination thereof etc. to the one or more items that were or would be accessible by an authorized user who was or may be subsequently using the computing device .

As further illustrated in by way of example but not limitation operation may include one or more additional operations in various alternative implementations. In certain example implementations operation may include an operation for restricting access via the computing device to one or more productivity applications in response at least in part to the determining. For instance an access restricting module including a document access restricting module see of a computing device may restrict access to one or more productivity applications e.g. document creation modifying applications communication applications image or video creation modifying applications graphical creation modifying applications a combination thereof etc. that were or would be accessible by a first user if first user was or is determined to be an authorized user of the computing device by having a productivity document access restricting module provide restricted access e.g. no access read only view only access limited functional access if the one or more productivity applications includes one or more applications a combination thereof etc. to the one or more items that were or would be accessible by an authorized user using the computing device .

In certain example implementations an operation may include an operation for restricting access via the computing device to one or more communication applications in response at least in part to the determining. For instance a communication application access restriction module e.g. of of a computing device may restrict access via the computing device to one or more communication applications e.g. an email application an instant messaging or IM application a text messaging application a social networking application that enables transmission reception exchange of communications such as messages comments tweets retweets postings pinnings etc. an application that enables posting of comments tweets text images videos etc. a voice or video over internet protocol IP application an application that enables completion and forwarding of forms any combination thereof and so forth in response to the determining.

In certain example implementations an access restricting operation for restricting access via the computing device to one or more applications in response to the determining may include an operation for restricting access via the computing device to one or more personal information manager applications in response at least in part to the determining. For instance a personal information manager application access restriction module e.g. of of a computing device may restrict access via computing device to one or more personal information manager applications e.g. Microsoft Outlook an application that contains information about contacts such as a telephone number or email directory an application that contains information about people in at least one social network group such as a friends followers or circle companions an application that provides access to a person s schedule an application that provides access to a person s upcoming tasks an application that provides access to a person s likely current geographical location a web or cloud based application that provides access to any of the above a combination thereof etc. in response to the determining.

In certain example implementations as further illustrated in an operation may include an operation for restricting access via the computing device to one or more automatic tasks that are associated with a predetermined level of authentication of an authorized user in response at least in part to the determining. For instance a no automatic task functionality module e.g. of of a computing device may prevent via the computing device and in response at least in part to the determining one or more automatic tasks e.g. automatic email or other communication checking retrieval displaying automatic door unlocking or opening automatic car starting automatic purchase approval or authorization a combination thereof etc. from being performed based at least partially on a level of authentication. By way of example only automatic door unlocking or car starting may be restricted if a level of authentication falls below a highest level automatic purchase authorization may be restricted if a level of authentication decreases to another lower level and automatic communication display may be restricted if a level of authentication decreases to yet another lower level and so forth.

For certain example embodiments as further illustrated in an operation may include an operation for determining a level of authentication associated with the first user with respect to the computing device at least partially based on a behavioral fingerprint that is based at least in part on one or more interactions between another device and an authorized user of the computing device. By way of example but not limitation a level of authentication associated with a first user with respect to a computing device may be determined at least partially based on a behavioral fingerprint which behavioral fingerprint may be based at least in part on one or more interactions e.g. general usage of swipes on typing with manipulations of features physical transport of application accessing internet location accessing people contacted social network accessing social network monitoring passwords entered a combination thereof etc. between a device and an authorized user of computing device . For instance behavioral fingerprint characteristics obtained with respect to a device may be applied with respect to a computing device .

For certain example embodiments as further illustrated in an operation may include an operation for receiving at least a portion of the behavioral fingerprint from at least one server. By way of example but not limitation a computing device may receive at least a portion of a behavioral fingerprint from at least one server from a cloud based service a combination thereof and so forth. For instance at least a portion of a behavioral fingerprint e.g. a complete behavioral fingerprint a part of a behavioral fingerprint updates to a behavioral fingerprint changes to a behavioral fingerprint augmentations to a behavioral fingerprint a combination thereof etc. that is used to at least partially determine a level of authentication at a computing device may be received from a server in the cloud. A received at least a portion of a behavioral fingerprint may comprise behavioral characteristics detected in the cloud may comprise behavioral characteristics detected at another device may comprise behavioral characteristics that are amended augmented transformed edited a combination thereof etc. in the cloud at one server e.g. but attained in the cloud from another device a computing device another server a combination thereof etc. any combination thereof and so forth.

As further illustrated in in some example implementations operation may include following an operation an operation for combining the received at least a portion of the behavioral fingerprint with at least another portion of the behavioral fingerprint that is determined responsive to one or more actions of an authorized user that are sensed at the computing device. By way of example but not limitation a computing device may combine a received at least a portion of a behavioral fingerprint with at least another portion of a behavioral fingerprint with the other portion determined responsive to one or more actions of an authorized user that are sensed at computing device . For instance a local version of a behavioral fingerprint at a computing device may be updated augmented partially replaced changed a combination thereof etc. with behavioral characteristics received from the cloud. Additionally or alternatively a computing device may send at least changes updates augmentations combinations thereof etc. of or to a local version of a behavioral fingerprint to at least one server in the cloud. A combined behavioral fingerprint may be used to determine a level of authentication for a first user going forward e.g. after a combination of a local behavioral fingerprint and a cloud behavioral fingerprint .

Those having skill in the art will recognize that the state of the art has progressed to the point where there is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that there are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware in one or more machines or articles of manufacture and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle alternatively if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation that is implemented in one or more machines or articles of manufacture or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware in one or more machines or articles of manufacture. Hence there are several possible vehicles by which the processes and or devices and or other technologies described herein may be effected none of which is inherently superior to the other in that any vehicle to be utilized is a choice dependent upon the context in which the vehicle will be deployed and the specific concerns e.g. speed flexibility or predictability of the implementer any of which may vary. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will typically employ optically oriented hardware software and or firmware in one or more machines or articles of manufacture.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. In one embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuitry ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented in integrated circuitry as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disk DVD a digital tape a computer memory etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. .

In a general sense those skilled in the art will recognize that the various aspects described herein which can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or any combination thereof can be viewed as being composed of various types of electrical circuitry. Consequently as used herein electrical circuitry includes but is not limited to electrical circuitry having at least one discrete electrical circuit electrical circuitry having at least one integrated circuit electrical circuitry having at least one application specific integrated circuit electrical circuitry forming a general purpose computing device configured by a computer program e.g. a general purpose computer configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein or a microprocessor configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein electrical circuitry forming a memory device e.g. forms of random access memory and or electrical circuitry forming a communications device e.g. a modem communications switch or optical electrical equipment . Those having skill in the art will recognize that the subject matter described herein may be implemented in an analog or digital fashion or some combination thereof.

Those having skill in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to describe devices and or processes in the fashion set forth herein and thereafter use engineering practices to integrate such described devices and or processes into data processing systems. That is at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into a data processing system via a reasonable amount of experimentation. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a typical data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device a memory such as volatile and non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers graphical user interfaces and applications programs one or more interaction devices such as a touch pad or screen and or control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing position and or velocity control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities . A typical data processing system may be implemented utilizing any suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in data computing communication and or network computing communication systems.

The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically interacting and or logically interactable components.

While particular aspects of the present subject matter described herein have been shown and described it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that based upon the teachings herein changes and modifications may be made without departing from the subject matter described herein and its broader aspects and therefore the appended claims are to encompass within their scope all such changes and modifications as are within the true spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. Furthermore it is to be understood that the invention is defined by the appended claims.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations.

In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. .

In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

