---

title: Triazolopyridine JAK inhibitor compounds and methods
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08889673&OS=08889673&RS=08889673
owner: Genentech, Inc.
number: 08889673
owner_city: South San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120621
---
Triazolopyridine compounds of Formula I which are inhibitors of Janus kinases for example JAK2 kinase as well as compositions containing these compounds and methods of use including but not limited to in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells.

Myeloproliferative disorders MPD originate in hematopoietic stem cells and primarily manifest in elevated counts of mostly normal cells of the myeloid lineage. A primary distinction between Philadelphia chromosome positive Ph and Philadelphia chromosome negative Ph can be made. Ph MPD results in chronic myelogenous leukemia and is driven by a bcr abl fusion protein that drives hematopoietic cell proliferation. Ph MPD can be further subclassified into three distinct disorders by related varieties namely polycythemia vera PV essential thrombocythemia ET and idiopathic myelofibrosis IMF . Dameshek W. 6 4 372 375 1951 . Patients with PV suffer from high counts of red blood cells whereas patients with ET have high levies of circulating platelets. If left untreated both diseases can result in life threatening thrombotic events. Patients with IMF experience fibrosis of the bone marrow with subsequent displacement of hematopoiesis into the spleen and liver. This primarily leads to splenomegaly which is followed by anemia in later stages of the disease as hematopoiesis becomes non productive. These patients have a poor prognosis although under certain conditions they can be cured by means of an allogeneic bone marrow transplant. There is no known cure for Ph MPD diseases.

An activating mutation in the tyrosine kinase JAK2 is associated with PV ET IMF and other diseases. Virtually all patients with PV and about 50 patients with ET and IMF harbor this mutation. Morgan K. J. and Gilliland D. G. 59 213 222 2008 . The mutation is an exchange from valine to phenylalanine at position 617 in the mature human JAK2 protein V617F . Additional mutations in JAK2 commonly found in exon 12 and referred to as exon 12 mutations also have an activating effect and can lead to MPD. Furthermore a T875N mutation was associated with megakaryoblastic leukemia. Finally JAK2 fusion proteins have been identified in acute leukemias.

The V617F mutation functions to activate JAK2 which leads to MPD. In non mutated form JAK2 is linked to cytokine receptors i.e. EPO R TPO R and others and only gets activated if the receptor itself is activated by stimulation with the cognate cytokine ligand. Hematopoiesis as a whole is then regulated through the availability of ligands. For example the cytokine erythropoietin EPO stimulates hematopoietic progenitor cells to give rise to red blood cells. A mutation that uncouples JAK2 activation from EPO therefore leads to elevated levels of red blood cells. By analogy thrombopoietin TPO regulates platelet growth by binding to the TPO R which in turn also signals through JAK2. Thus elevated levels of platelets can also result from aberrant JAK2 activation.

Compounds are needed that inhibit JAK2 which would be beneficial to patients with JAK2 driven myeloproliferative disorders as well as other diseases that are responsive to the inhibition of JAK2. Such diseases include both diseases in which JAK2 is activated by mutation or amplification as well as diseases in which JAK2 activation is a part of the oncogenic cascade. Numerous tumor cell lines and tumor samples have high levels of phospho STAT3 which is a JAK2 target gene.

JAK1 was initially identified in a screen for novel kinases Wilks A. F. 1989 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 86 1603 1607 . Genetic and biochemical studies have shown that JAK1 is functionally and physically associated with the type I interferon e.g. IFNalpha type II interferon e.g. IFNgamma IL 2 and IL 6 cytokine receptor complexes Kisseleva et al. 2002 gene 285 1 24 Levy et al. 2005 Nat. Rev. Mol. Cell. Biol. 3 651 662 O Shea et al. 2002 Cell 109 suppl. S121 S131 . JAK1 knockout mice die perinatally due to defects in LIF receptor signaling Kisseleva et al. 2002 gene 285 1 24 O Shea et al. 2002 Cell 109 suppl. S121 S131 . Characterization of tissues derived from JAK1 knockout mice demonstrated critical roles for this kinase in the IFN IL 10 IL 2 IL 4 and IL 6 pathways. A humanized monoclonal antibody targeting the IL 6 pathway Tocilizumab was recently approved by the European Commission for the treatment of moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis Scheinecker et al. 2009 Nat. Rev. Drug Discov. 8 273 274 .

JAK3 associates exclusively with the gamma common cytokine receptor chain which is present in the IL 2 IL 4 IL 7 IL 9 IL 15 and IL 21 cytokine receptor complexes. JAK3 is critical for lymphoid cell development and proliferation and mutations in JAK3 result in severe combined immunodeficiency SCID O Shea et al. 2002 Cell 109 suppl. S121 S131 . Based on its role in regulating lymphocytes JAK3 and JAK3 mediated pathways have been targeted for immunosuppressive indications e.g. transplantation rejection and rheumatoid arthritis Baslund et al. 2005 Arthritis Rheumatism 52 2686 2692 Changelian et al. 2003 Science 302 875 878 .

TYK2 associates with the type I interferon e.g. IFNalpha IL 6 IL 10 IL 12 and IL 23 cytokine receptor complexes Kisseleva et al. 2002 gene 285 1 24 Watford W. T. O Shea J. J. 2006 Immunity 25 695 697 . Consistent with this primary cells derived from a TYK2 deficient human are defective in type I interferon IL 6 IL 10 IL 12 and IL 23 signaling. A fully human monoclonal antibody targeting the shared p40 subunit of the IL 12 and Il 23 cytokines Ustekinumab was recently approved by the European Commission for the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis Krueger et al. 2007 N. Engl. J. Med. 356 580 92 Reich et al. 2009 Nat. Rev. Drug Discov. 8 355 356 . In addition an antibody targeting the IL 12 and IL 23 pathways underwent clinical trials for treating Crohn s Disease Mannon et al. 2004 N. Engl. J. Med. 351 2069 79 .

Another embodiment includes a pharmaceutical composition that includes a compound of Formula I and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier adjuvant or vehicle.

Another embodiment includes a method of treating or lessening the severity of a disease or condition responsive to the inhibition of one or more Janus kinase activity selected from JAK1 JAK2 JAK3 and TYK2 in a patient. The method includes administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I.

Another embodiment includes a method of treating or lessening the severity of a disease or condition responsive to the inhibition of JAK2 kinase activity in a patient. The method includes administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I.

Another embodiment includes a kit for treating a disease or disorder responsive to the inhibition of a JAK kinase. The kit includes a first pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of Formula I and instructions for use

Reference will now be made in detail to certain embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying structures and formulas. While the invention will be described in conjunction with the enumerated embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the invention to those embodiments. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover all alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the scope of the present invention as defined by the claims. One skilled in the art will recognize many methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein which could be used in the practice of the present invention. The present invention is in no way limited to the methods and materials described. In the event that one or more of the incorporated literature patents and similar materials differs from or contradicts this application including but not limited to defined terms term usage described techniques or the like this application controls.

The term alkyl refers to a saturated linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical wherein the alkyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein. In one example the alkyl radical is one to eighteen carbon atoms C C . In other examples the alkyl radical is C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C or C C. Examples of alkyl groups include C Chydrocarbon moieties such as methyl Me CH ethyl Et CHCH 1 propyl n Pr n propyl CHCHCH 2 propyl i Pr propyl CH CH 1 butyl n Bu n butyl CHCHCHCH 2 methyl 1 propyl i Bu i butyl CHCH CH 2 butyl s Bu s butyl CH CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 propyl t Bu t butyl C CH 1 pentyl n pentyl CHCHCHCHCH 2 pentyl CH CH CHCHCH 3 pentyl CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 butyl C CH CHCH 3 methyl 2 butyl CH CH CH CH 3 methyl 1 butyl CHCHCH CH 2 methyl 1 butyl CHCH CH CHCH 1 hexyl CHCHCHCHCHCH 2 hexyl CH CH CHCHCHCH 3 hexyl CH CHCH CHCHCH 2 methyl 2 pentyl C CH CHCHCH 3 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CH CH CHCH 4 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CHCH CH 3 methyl 3 pentyl C CH CHCH 2 methyl 3 pentyl CH CHCH CH CH 2 3 dimethyl 2 butyl C CH CH CH 3 3 dimethyl 2 butyl CH CH C CH 1 heptyl and 1 octyl.

The term alkenyl refers to linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon double bond wherein the alkenyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein and includes radicals having cis and trans orientations or alternatively E and Z orientations. In one example the alkenyl radical is two to eighteen carbon atoms C C . In other examples the alkenyl radical is C C C C C C C Cor C C. Examples include but are not limited to ethenyl or vinyl CH CH prop 1 enyl CH CHCH prop 2 enyl CHCH CH 2 methylprop 1 enyl but 1 enyl but 2 enyl but 3 enyl buta 1 3 dienyl 2 methylbuta 1 3 diene hex 1 enyl hex 2 enyl hex 3 enyl hex 4 enyl hexa 1 3 dienyl.

The term alkynyl refers to a linear or branched monovalent hydrocarbon radical with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon triple bond wherein the alkynyl radical may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein. In one example the alkynyl radical is two to eighteen carbon atoms C C . In other examples the alkynyl radical is C C C C C C C Cor C C. Examples include but are not limited to ethynyl C CH prop 1 ynyl C CCH prop 2 ynyl propargyl CHC CH but 1 ynyl but 2 ynyl and but 3 ynyl.

 Cycloalkyl refers to a non aromatic saturated or partially unsaturated hydrocarbon ring group wherein the cycloalkyl group may be optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein. In one example the cycloalkyl group is 3 to 12 carbon atoms C C . In other examples cycloalkyl is C Cor C C. In other examples the cycloalkyl group as a monocycle is C Cor C C. In another example the cycloalkyl group as a bicycle is C C. Examples of monocyclic cycloalkyl include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl 1 cyclopent 1 enyl 1 cyclopent 2 enyl 1 cyclopent 3 enyl cyclohexyl 1 cyclohex 1 enyl 1 cyclohex 2 enyl 1 cyclohex 3 enyl cyclohexadienyl cycloheptyl cyclooctyl cyclononyl cyclodecyl cycloundecyl and cyclododecyl. Exemplary arrangements of bicyclic cycloalkyls having 7 to 12 ring atoms include but are not limited to 4 4 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 ring systems. Exemplary bridged bicyclic cycloalkyls include but are not limited to bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane bicyclo 2.2.2 octane and bicyclo 3.2.2 nonane.

 Aryl refers to a cyclic aromatic hydrocarbon group optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein. In one example the aryl group is 6 20 carbon atoms C C . In another example the aryl group is C C. In another example the aryl group is a Caryl group. Aryl groups may be represented in the exemplary structures as Ar . Aryl includes a bicyclic group comprising an aromatic ring with a fused non aromatic or partially saturated ring. Example aryl groups include but are not limited to phenyl naphthalenyl anthracenyl indenyl indanyl 1 2 dihydronapthalenyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronapthyl and the like.

 Heterocyclyl refers to a saturated or a partially unsaturated i.e. having one or more double and or triple bonds within the ring cyclic group in which at least one ring atom is a heteroatom independently selected from nitrogen oxygen phosphorus and sulfur the remaining ring atoms being carbon. The heterocyclyl group may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents described below. In one embodiment heterocyclyl includes monocycles or bicycles having 1 to 9 carbon ring members C C . In other examples heterocyclyl includes monocycles or bicycles having C C C Cor C C. Examples of bicycle systems include but are not limited to 3 5 4 5 5 5 3 6 4 6 5 6 or 6 6 systems. In another embodiment heterocyclyl includes bridged ring systems having 2.2.1 2.2.2 3.2.2 and 4.1.0 arrangements and having 1 to 3 heteroatoms selected from N O S and P. In another embodiment heterocyclyl includes spiro groups having 1 to 3 heteroatoms selected from N O S and P. The heterocyclyl group may be a carbon linked group or heteroatom linked group. Heterocyclyl includes a heterocyclyl group fused to a cycloalkyl group.

Exemplary heterocyclyl groups include but are not limited to oxiranyl aziridinyl thiiranyl azetidinyl oxetanyl thietanyl 1 2 dithietanyl 1 3 dithietanyl pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl morpholinyl thiomorpholinyl thioxanyl piperazinyl homopiperazinyl homopiperidinyl oxepanyl thiepanyl oxazepinyl diazepinyl thiazepinyl dihydrothienyl dihydropyranyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydrothienyl tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl 1 pyrrolinyl 2 pyrrolinyl 3 pyrrolinyl indolinyl 2H pyranyl 4H pyranyl dioxanyl 1 3 dioxolanyl pyrazolinyl pyrazolidinyl dithianyl dithiolanyl pyrazolidinylimidazolinyl imidazolidinyl 3 azabicyco 3.1.0 hexanyl 3 azabicyclo 4.1.0 heptanyl and azabicyclo 2.2.2 hexanyl. Examples of a heterocyclyl group wherein a ring atom is substituted with oxo O are pyrimidinonyl and 1 1 dioxo thiomorpholinyl. The heterocyclyl groups herein are optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described herein. Heterocycles are described in Paquette Leo A. Principles of Modern Heterocyclic Chemistry W. A. Benjamin New York 1968 particularly Chapters 1 3 4 6 7 and 9 The Chemistry of Heterocyclic Compounds A series of Monographs John Wiley Sons New York 1950 to present in particular Volumes 13 14 16 19 and 28 and . 1960 82 5566.

The term heteroaryl refers to an aromatic carbocyclic radical in which at least one ring atom is a heteroatom independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur the remaining ring atoms being carbon. Heteroaryl groups may be optionally substituted with one or more substituents described herein. In one example the heteroaryl group contains 1 to 9 carbon ring atoms C C . In other examples the heteroaryl group is C C C Cor C C. In one embodiment exemplary heteroaryl groups include monocyclic aromatic 5 6 and 7 membered rings containing one or more heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. In another embodiment exemplary heteroaryl groups include fused ring systems of 8 to 20 atoms wherein at least one aromatic ring contains one or more heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. Heteroaryl includes heteroaryl groups fused with an aryl cycloalkyl or heterocyclyl group. Examples of heteroaryl groups include but are not limited to pyridinyl imidazolyl imidazopyridinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazolyl triazolyl pyrazinyl tetrazolyl furyl thienyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl oxazolyl isothiazolyl pyrrolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl indolyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl cinnolinyl indazolyl indolizinyl phthalazinyl pyridazinyl triazinyl isoindolyl pteridinyl purinyl oxadiazolyl triazolyl thiadiazolyl thiadiazolyl furazanyl benzofurazanyl benzothiophenyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl naphthyridinyl and furopyridinyl.

In certain embodiments the heterocyclyl or heteroaryl group is C attached. By way of example and not limitation carbon bonded heterocyclyls include bonding arrangements at position 2 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridine position 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridazine position 2 4 5 or 6 of a pyrimidine position 2 3 5 or 6 of a pyrazine position 2 3 4 or 5 of a furan tetrahydrofuran thiofuran thiophene pyrrole or tetrahydropyrrole position 2 4 or 5 of an oxazole imidazole or thiazole position 3 4 or 5 of an isoxazole pyrazole or isothiazole position 2 or 3 of an aziridine position 2 3 or 4 of an azetidine position 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of a quinoline or position 1 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of an isoquinoline. 2 pyridyl 3 pyridyl 4 pyridyl 5 pyridyl 6 pyridyl .

In certain embodiments the heterocyclyl or heteroaryl group is N attached. By way of example and not limitation the nitrogen bonded heterocyclyl or heteroaryl group include bonding arrangements at position 1 of an aziridine azetidine pyrrole pyrrolidine 2 pyrroline 3 pyrroline imidazole imidazolidine 2 imidazoline 3 imidazoline pyrazole pyrazoline 2 pyrazoline 3 pyrazoline piperidine piperazine indole indoline 1H indazole position 2 of a isoindole or isoindoline position 4 of a morpholine and position 9 of a carbazole or carboline.

In an embodiment for Formula I alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl are optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from by one or more OR NRR oxo and halo and aryl heterocyclyl heteroaryl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from OR oxo halo CF NRR C Calkyl and C O C Calkyl wherein R Rand Rare defined below for Formula I. In another embodiment for Formula I alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl are optionally substituted by 1 to 3 substituents independently selected from by one or more OR NRR oxo and halo and aryl heterocyclyl heteroaryl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted by 1 to 3 substituents independently selected from OR oxo halo CF NRR C Calkyl and C O C Calkyl wherein R Rand Rare defined below for Formula I.

In an embodiment for Formula I alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl are optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from oxo and halo and aryl is optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from OR halo CF NRRand C Calkyl wherein R Rand Rare defined below for Formula I. In another embodiment for Formula I alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl are optionally substituted by 1 to 3 substituents independently selected from oxo and halo and aryl is optionally substituted by 1 to 3 substituents independently selected from OR halo CF NRRand C Calkyl wherein R Rand Rare defined below for Formula I.

In an embodiment for Formula I alkyl aryl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from C Calkyl C Calkyl OR oxo halo NRRand C Cheterocyclyl wherein Rand Rare defined below for Formula I. In another embodiment for Formula I alkyl aryl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted by 1 to 3 substituents independently selected from C Calkyl C Calkyl OR oxo halo NRRand C Cheterocyclyl wherein Rand Rare defined below for Formula I.

In an embodiment for Formula I alkyl cycloalkyl and phenyl are optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from halo CHOH NH C O O C Calkyl and C O NH C Calkyl . In another embodiment for Formula I alkyl cycloalkyl and phenyl are optionally substituted by 1 to 3 substituents independently selected from halo CHOH NH C O O C Calkyl and C O NH C Calkyl .

 Treat and treatment includes both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures wherein the object is to prevent or slow down lessen an undesired physiological change or disorder such as the development or spread of cancer. For purposes of this invention beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms diminishment of extent of disease stabilized i.e. not worsening state of disease delay or slowing of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable. Treatment can also mean prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment. Those in need of treatment include those already with the condition or disorder as well as those prone to have the condition or disorder for example through a genetic mutation or those in which the condition or disorder is to be prevented.

The phrase therapeutically effective amount means an amount of a compound of the present invention that i treats or prevents the particular disease condition or disorder ii attenuates ameliorates or eliminates one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder or iii prevents or delays the onset of one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder described herein. In the case of cancer the therapeutically effective amount of the drug may reduce the number of cancer cells reduce the tumor size inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop tumor metastasis inhibit to some extent tumor growth and or relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. To the extent the drug may prevent growth and or kill existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic. For cancer therapy efficacy can for example be measured by assessing the time to disease progression TTP and or determining the response rate RR .

The term bioavailability refers to the systemic availability i.e. blood plasma levels of a given amount of drug administered to a patient. Bioavailability is an absolute term that indicates measurement of both the time rate and total amount extent of drug that reaches the general circulation from an administered dosage form.

The terms cancer and cancerous refer to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. A tumor comprises one or more cancerous cells. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma blastoma sarcoma and leukemia or lymphoid malignancies. More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell cancer e.g. epithelial squamous cell cancer lung cancer including small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer NSCLC adenocarcinoma of the lung and squamous carcinoma of the lung cancer of the peritoneum hepatocellular cancer gastric or stomach cancer including gastrointestinal cancer pancreatic cancer glioblastoma cervical cancer ovarian cancer liver cancer bladder cancer hepatoma breast cancer colon cancer rectal cancer colorectal cancer endometrial or uterine carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma kidney or renal cancer prostate cancer vulval cancer thyroid cancer hepatic carcinoma anal carcinoma penile carcinoma as well as head and neck cancer.

A chemotherapeutic agent is a chemical compound useful in the treatment of cancer. Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include Erlotinib TARCEVA Genentech Inc. OSI Pharm. Trastuzumab HERCEPTIN Genentech Inc. bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech Inc. Rituximab RITUXAN Genentech Inc. Biogen Idec Inc. Bortezomib VELCADE Millennium Pharm. Fulvestrant FASLODEX AstraZeneca Sutent SU11248 Pfizer Letrozole FEMARA Novartis Imatinib mesylate GLEEVEC Novartis PTK787 ZK 222584 Novartis Oxaliplatin Eloxatin Sanofi 5 FU 5 fluorouracil Leucovorin Rapamycin Sirolimus RAPAMUNE Wyeth Lapatinib GSK572016 Glaxo Smith Kline Lonafarnib SCH 66336 Sorafenib BAY43 9006 Bayer Labs and Gefitinib IRESSA AstraZeneca AG1478 AG1571 SU 5271 Sugen alkylating agents such as thiotepa and CYTOXAN cyclosphosphamide alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine triethylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylomelamine acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone a camptothecin including the synthetic analog topotecan bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogs cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogs KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlornaphazine cholophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin especially calicheamicin gamma1I and calicheamicin omegaI1 Angew Chem. Intl. Ed. Engl. 1994 33 183 186 dynemicin including dynemicin A bisphosphonates such as clodronate an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin caminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine ADRIAMYCIN doxorubicin morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin potfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogs such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elformithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone podophyllinic acid 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofuran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C cyclophosphamide thiotepa taxoids e.g. TAXOL paclitaxel Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulations of paclitaxel American Pharmaceutical Partners Schaumberg Ill. and TAXOTERE doxetaxel Rh ne Poulenc Rorer Antony France chloranbucil GEMZAR gemcitabine 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine NAVELBINE vinorelbine novantrone teniposide edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin xeloda ibandronate CPT 11 topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylornithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid capecitabine and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are i anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate raloxifene droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and FARESTON toremifine citrate ii aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASIN exemestane Pfizer formestanie fadrozole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole Novartis and ARIMIDEX anastrozole AstraZeneca iii anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog iv protein kinase inhibitors v lipid kinase inhibitors vi antisense oligonucleotides particularly those which inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in aberrant cell proliferation such as for example PKC alpha Ralf and H Ras vii ribozymes such as VEGF inhibitors e.g. ANGIOZYME and viii vaccines such as gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN LEUVECTIN and VAXID PROLEUKIN rIL 2 a topoisomerase 1 inhibitor such as LURTOTECAN ABARELIX rmRH ix anti angiogenic agents and x pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Humanized monoclonal antibodies with therapeutic potential as agents in combination with the Janus kinase inhibitors of the invention include adalimumab etanercept infliximab alemtuzumab apolizumab aselizumab atlizumab bapineuzumab bevacizumab bivatuzumab mertansine cantuzumab mertansine cedelizumab certolizumab pegol cidfusituzumab cidtuzumab daclizumab eculizumab efalizumab epratuzumab erlizumab felvizumab fontolizumab gemtuzumab ozogamicin inotuzumab ozogamicin ipilimumab labetuzumab lintuzumab matuzumab mepolizumab motavizumab motovizumab natalizumab nimotuzumab nolovizumab numavizumab ocrelizumab omalizumab palivizumab pascolizumab pecfusituzumab pectuzumab pertuzumab pexelizumab ralivizumab ranibizumab reslivizumab reslizumab resyvizumab rovelizumab ruplizumab sibrotuzumab siplizumab sontuzumab tacatuzumab tetraxetan tadocizumab talizumab tefibazumab tocilizumab toralizumab trastuzumab tucotuzumab celmoleukin tucusituzumab umavizumab urtoxazumab ustekinumab visilizumab and the anti interleukin 12 ABT 874 J695 Wyeth Research and Abbott Laboratories which is a recombinant exclusively human sequence full length IgG antibody genetically modified to recognize interleukin 12 p40 protein.

The term prodrug as used in this application refers to a precursor or derivative form of a pharmaceutically active substance that is less efficacious to the patient or cytotoxic to tumor cells compared to the parent drug and is capable of being enzymatically or hydrolytically activated or converted into the more active parent form. See e.g. Wilman Prodrugs in Cancer Chemotherapy Biochemical Society Transactions 14 pp. 375 382 615th Meeting Belfast 1986 and Stella et al. Prodrugs A Chemical Approach to Targeted Drug Delivery Borchardt et al. ed. pp. 247 267 Humana Press 1985 . The prodrugs of this invention include but are not limited to phosphate containing prodrugs thiophosphate containing prodrugs sulfate containing prodrugs peptide containing prodrugs D amino acid modified prodrugs glycosylated prodrugs lactam containing prodrugs optionally substituted phenoxyacetamide containing prodrugs or optionally substituted phenylacetamide containing prodrugs 5 fluorocytosine and other 5 fluorouridine prodrugs which can be converted into the more active cytotoxic free drug. Examples of cytotoxic drugs that can be derivatized into a prodrug form for use in this invention include but are not limited to those chemotherapeutic agents described above.

A liposome is a small vesicle composed of various types of lipids phospholipids and or surfactant which is useful for delivery of a drug such as a compound of Formula I and optionally a chemotherapeutic agent to a mammal. The components of the liposome are commonly arranged in a bilayer formation similar to the lipid arrangement of biological membranes.

The term package insert is used to refer to instructions customarily included in commercial packages of therapeutic products that contain information about the indications usage dosage administration contraindications and or warnings concerning the use of such therapeutic products.

The term chiral refers to molecules which have the property of non superimposability of the mirror image partner while the term achiral refers to molecules which are superimposable on their mirror image partner.

The term stereoisomers refers to compounds which have identical chemical constitution but differ with regard to the arrangement of the atoms or groups in space.

 Diastereomer refers to a stereoisomer with two or more centers of chirality and whose molecules are not mirror images of one another. Diastereomers have different physical properties e.g. melting points boiling points spectral properties and reactivities. Mixtures of diastereomers may separate under high resolution analytical procedures such as electrophoresis and chromatography.

 Enantiomers refer to two stereoisomers of a compound which are non superimposable mirror images of one another.

Stereochemical definitions and conventions used herein generally follow S. P. Parker Ed. 1984 McGraw Hill Book Company New York and Eliel E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994. Many organic compounds exist in optically active forms i.e. they have the ability to rotate the plane of plane polarized light. In describing an optically active compound the prefixes D and L or R and S are used to denote the absolute configuration of the molecule about its chiral center s . The prefixes d and l or and are employed to designate the sign of rotation of plane polarized light by the compound with or l meaning that the compound is levorotatory. A compound prefixed with or d is dextrorotatory. For a given chemical structure these stereoisomers are identical except that they are mirror images of one another. A specific stereoisomer may also be referred to as an enantiomer and a mixture of such isomers is often called an enantiomeric mixture. A 50 50 mixture of enantiomers is referred to as a racemic mixture or a racemate which may occur where there has been no stereoselection or stereospecificity in a chemical reaction or process. The terms racemic mixture and racemate refer to an equimolar mixture of two enantiomeric species devoid of optical activity.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable salt as used herein refers to pharmaceutically acceptable organic or inorganic salts of a compound of Formula I. Exemplary salts include but are not limited to sulfate citrate acetate oxalate chloride bromide iodide nitrate bisulfate phosphate acid phosphate isonicotinate lactate salicylate acid citrate tartrate oleate tannate pantothenate bitartrate ascorbate succinate maleate gentisinate fumarate gluconate glucuronate saccharate formate benzoate glutamate methanesulfonate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate p toluenesulfonate and pamoate i.e. 1 1 methylene bis 2 hydroxy 3 naphthoate salts. A pharmaceutically acceptable salt may involve the inclusion of another molecule such as an acetate ion a succinate ion or other counter ion. The counter ion may be any organic or inorganic moiety that stabilizes the charge on the parent compound. Furthermore a pharmaceutically acceptable salt may have more than one charged atom in its structure. Instances where multiple charged atoms are part of the pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have multiple counter ions. Hence a pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have one or more charged atoms and or one or more counter ion.

A solvate refers to an association or complex of one or more solvent molecules and a compound of Formula I. Examples of solvents that form solvates include but are not limited to water isopropanol ethanol methanol DMSO ethyl acetate acetic acid and ethanolamine. The term hydrate refers to the complex where the solvent molecule is water.

The term protecting group or Pg refers to a substituent that is commonly employed to block or protect a particular functionality while reacting other functional groups on the compound. For example an amino protecting group is a substituent attached to an amino group that blocks or protects the amino functionality in the compound. Suitable amino protecting groups include acetyl trifluoroacetyl phthalimido t butoxycarbonyl BOC benzyloxycarbonyl CBz and 9 fluorenylmethylenoxycarbonyl Fmoc . Similarly a hydroxy protecting group refers to a substituent of a hydroxy group that blocks or protects the hydroxy functionality. Suitable hydroxy protecting groups include acetyl trialkylsilyl dialkylphenylsilyl benzoyl benzyl benzyloxymethyl methyl methoxymethyl triarylmethyl and tetrahydropyranyl. A carboxy protecting group refers to a substituent of the carboxy group that blocks or protects the carboxy functionality. Common carboxy protecting groups include CHCHSOPh cyanoethyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxymethyl 2 p toluenesulfonyl ethyl 2 p nitrophenylsulfenyl ethyl 2 diphenylphosphino ethyl nitroethyl and the like. For a general description of protecting groups and their use see T. W. Greene and P. Wuts Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis Third Ed. John Wiley Sons New York 1999 and P. Kocienski Protecting Groups Third Ed. Verlag 2003.

The term patient includes human patients and animal patients. The term animal includes companion animals e.g. dogs cats and horses food source animals zoo animals marine animals birds and other similar animal species.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable indicates that the substance or composition must be compatible chemically and or toxicologically with the other ingredients comprising a formulation and or the mammal being treated therewith.

The terms compound of this invention and compounds of the present invention and compounds of Formula I unless otherwise indicated include compounds of Formula I and stereoisomers tautomers solvates metabolites salts e.g. pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof. Unless otherwise stated structures depicted herein are also meant to include compounds that differ only in the presence of one or more isotopically enriched atoms. For example compounds of Formula I wherein one or more hydrogen atoms are replaced deuterium or tritium or one or more carbon atoms are replaced by a C or C enriched carbon are within the scope of this invention.

 Inflammatory disorder as used herein can refer to any disease disorder or syndrome in which an excessive or unregulated inflammatory response leads to excessive inflammatory symptoms host tissue damage or loss of tissue function. Inflammatory disorder also refers to a pathological state mediated by influx of leukocytes and or neutrophil chemotaxis.

 Inflammation as used herein refers to a localized protective response elicited by injury or destruction of tissues which serves to destroy dilute or wall off sequester both the injurious agent and the injured tissue. Inflammation is notably associated with influx of leukocytes and or neutrophil chemotaxis. Inflammation can result from infection with pathogenic organisms and viruses and from noninfectious means such as trauma or reperfusion following myocardial infarction or stroke immune response to foreign antigen and autoimmune responses. Accordingly inflammatory disorders amenable to treatment with Formula I compounds encompass disorders associated with reactions of the specific defense system as well as with reactions of the nonspecific defense system.

 Specific defense system refers to the component of the immune system that reacts to the presence of specific antigens. Examples of inflammation resulting from a response of the specific defense system include the classical response to foreign antigens autoimmune diseases and delayed type hypersensitivity response mediated by T cells. Chronic inflammatory diseases the rejection of solid transplanted tissue and organs e.g. kidney and bone marrow transplants and graft versus host disease GVHD are further examples of inflammatory reactions of the specific defense system.

The term nonspecific defense system as used herein refers to inflammatory disorders that are mediated by leukocytes that are incapable of immunological memory e.g. granulocytes and macrophages . Examples of inflammation that result at least in part from a reaction of the nonspecific defense system include inflammation associated with conditions such as adult acute respiratory distress syndrome ARDS or multiple organ injury syndromes reperfusion injury acute glomerulonephritis reactive arthritis dermatoses with acute inflammatory components acute purulent meningitis or other central nervous system inflammatory disorders such as stroke thermal injury inflammatory bowel disease granulocyte transfusion associated syndromes and cytokine induced toxicity.

 Autoimmune disease as used herein refers to any group of disorders in which tissue injury is associated with humoral or cell mediated responses to the body s own constituents.

 Allergic disease as used herein refers to any symptoms tissue damage or loss of tissue function resulting from allergy. Arthritic disease as used herein refers to any disease that is characterized by inflammatory lesions of the joints attributable to a variety of etiologies. Dermatitis as used herein refers to any of a large family of diseases of the skin that are characterized by inflammation of the skin attributable to a variety of etiologies. Transplant rejection as used herein refers to any immune reaction directed against grafted tissue such as organs or cells e.g. bone marrow characterized by a loss of function of the grafted and surrounding tissues pain swelling leukocytosis and thrombocytopenia. The therapeutic methods of the present invention include methods for the treatment of disorders associated with inflammatory cell activation.

 Inflammatory cell activation refers to the induction by a stimulus including but not limited to cytokines antigens or auto antibodies of a proliferative cellular response the production of soluble mediators including but not limited to cytokines oxygen radicals enzymes prostanoids or vasoactive amines or cell surface expression of new or increased numbers of mediators including but not limited to major histocompatability antigens or cell adhesion molecules in inflammatory cells including but not limited to monocytes macrophages T lymphocytes B lymphocytes granulocytes i.e. polymorphonuclear leukocytes such as neutrophils basophils and eosinophils mast cells dendritic cells Langerhans cells and endothelial cells . It will be appreciated by persons skilled in the art that the activation of one or a combination of these phenotypes in these cells can contribute to the initiation perpetuation or exacerbation of an inflammatory disorder.

The term NSAID is an acronym for non steroidal anti inflammatory drug and is a therapeutic agent with analgesic antipyretic lowering an elevated body temperature and relieving pain without impairing consciousness and in higher doses with anti inflammatory effects reducing inflammation . The term non steroidal is used to distinguish these drugs from steroids which among a broad range of other effects have a similar eicosanoid depressing anti inflammatory action. As analgesics NSAIDs are unusual in that they are non narcotic. NSAIDs include aspirin ibuprofen and naproxen. NSAIDs are usually indicated for the treatment of acute or chronic conditions where pain and inflammation are present. NSAIDs are generally indicated for the symptomatic relief of the following conditions rheumatoid arthritis osteoarthritis inflammatory arthropathies e.g. ankylosing spondylitis psoriatic arthritis Reiter s syndrome acute gout dysmenorrhoea metastatic bone pain headache and migraine postoperative pain mild to moderate pain due to inflammation and tissue injury pyrexia ileus and renal colic. Most NSAIDs act as non selective inhibitors of the enzyme cyclooxygenase inhibiting both the cyclooxygenase 1 COX 1 and cyclooxygenase 2 COX 2 isoenzymes. Cyclooxygenase catalyzes the formation of prostaglandins and thromboxane from arachidonic acid itself derived from the cellular phospholipid bilayer by phospholipase A . Prostaglandins act among other things as messenger molecules in the process of inflammation. COX 2 inhibitors include celecoxib etoricoxib lumiracoxib parecoxib rofecoxib rofecoxib and valdecoxib.

In one embodiment a compound of Formula I and pharmaceutical formulations thereof are provided that are useful in the treatment of diseases conditions and or disorders responsive to the inhibition of JAK kinases.

Ris H C O OR phenyl or C Cheteroaryl wherein said phenyl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted by 1 to 6 R 

Ris phenyl C Cheteroaryl or C Cheterocyclyl wherein the phenyl heteroaryl and heterocyclyl are optionally substituted by 1 to 5 R 

R Rand Rare independently H CH CHCH CF F or Cl with the proviso that when Ris H then Ris H CH CHCH F or Cl 

Ris independently H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Calkyl OR C Calkyl NRR halo CN S O R S O NRR NRS O R NRC O R NRC O OR OC O NRR CF C Calkyl C Cheteroaryl C Calkyl C Cheterocyclyl C Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl C Calkyl C Caryl C O OR C O C Calkyl NRR C O C Calkyl C Cheterocyclyl C O NR C Calkyl C Cheterocyclyl C O NR C Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl C O NR C Calkyl C Cheteroaryl C O NR C Calkyl NRR C O NR C Calkyl Caryl wherein said alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl are optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from OR NRR oxo S O R S O NRR and halo and said aryl heterocyclyl heteroaryl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from C Calkyl OR oxo halo CF C Calkyl NRR C Calkyl and C O R 

Ris independently H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Calkyl OR C Calkyl NRR C Calkyl C Cheterocyclyl C O C Calkyl C Cheterocyclyl C Calkyl C Caryl halo CF OCF C O NR C Calkyl C Cheterocyclyl C O NRR NRC O R SO C Calkyl SONRR S O R S O NRR NRS O R CN nitro wherein said alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl are optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from oxo and halo and said aryl and heterocyclyl are optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from OR halo CF NRR oxo and C Calkyl 

Rand Rare independently H OR C O O C Calkyl C Calkyl Caryl or C Ccycloalkyl wherein said alkyl aryl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from C Calkyl C Calkyl OR oxo halo NRRand C Cheterocyclyl or

Rand Rtogether with the atom to which they are attached form a C Cheterocyclyl optionally substituted by oxo halo or C Calkyl and

Rand Rare independently H C Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl or phenyl wherein said alkyl cycloalkyl and phenyl are optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from halo CHOH or NH C O O C Calkyl and C O NH C Calkyl .

In one embodiment Ris H C O OR phenyl or C Cheteroaryl wherein said phenyl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted by 1 to 6 R 

Ris phenyl C Cheteroaryl or C Cheterocyclyl wherein the phenyl heteroaryl and heterocyclyl are optionally substituted by 1 to 6 R 

R Rand Rare independently H CH CHCH CF F or Cl with the proviso that when Ris H then Ris H CH CHCH F or Cl 

Ris independently H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Calkyl OR C Calkyl NRR halo CN C Cheteroaryl C Cheterocyclyl C Ccycloalkyl C Caryl C O OR C O C Calkyl NRR C O C Calkyl C Cheterocyclyl C O NR C Calkyl C Cheterocyclyl C O NR C Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl C O NR C Calkyl C Cheteroaryl C O NR C Calkyl NRR C O NR C Calkyl Caryl wherein said alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl are optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from OR NRR oxo and halo and said aryl heterocyclyl heteroaryl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from OR oxo halo CF NRR C Calkyl and C O C Calkyl 

Ris independently H C Calkyl C Calkenyl C Calkynyl C Calkyl OR C Calkyl NRR C Calkyl C Caryl halo C O NRR NRC O R SO C Calkyl SONRR CN nitro wherein said alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl are optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from oxo and halo and said and said aryl is optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from OR halo CF NRRand C Calkyl 

Rand Rare independently H OR C O O C Calkyl C Calkyl Caryl or C Ccycloalkyl wherein said alkyl aryl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from C Calkyl C Calkyl OR oxo halo NRRand C Cheterocyclyl or

Rand Rare independently H C Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl or phenyl wherein said alkyl cycloalkyl and phenyl are optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from halo CHOH NH C O O C Calkyl and C O NH C Calkyl .

In one embodiment Ris phenyl or C Cheteroaryl wherein said phenyl and heteroaryl are optionally substituted by 1 to 5 R.

In one embodiment Ris phenyl optionally substituted by C O NR C Calkyl C Cheterocyclyl wherein said heterocyclyl is optionally substituted by oxo C C alkyl C O C Calkyl or fluoro. In one example of this embodiment Ris H C Calkyl is C Calkyl and C Cheterocyclyl is piperidinyl piperizinyl or morpholinyl optionally substituted by oxo C C alkyl C O C Calkyl or fluoro. In another example of this embodiment Ris H C Calkyl is Calkyl and C Cheterocyclyl is piperidinyl optionally substituted by CH.

In one embodiment C Cheteroaryl is pyridinyl imidazolyl imidazopyridinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazolyl triazolyl pyrazinyl tetrazolyl furyl thienyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl oxazolyl isothiazolyl pyrrolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl indolyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl cinnolinyl indazolyl indolizinyl phthalazinyl pyridazinyl triazinyl isoindolyl pteridinyl purinyl oxadiazolyl triazolyl thiadiazolyl thiadiazolyl furazanyl benzofurazanyl benzothiophenyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl naphthyridinyl or furopyridinyl each of which is optionally substituted by 1 to 5 R.

In one embodiment Ris phenyl or C Cheteroaryl optionally substituted by 1 to 3 R. In one example Ris phenyl pyrazolyl oxazolyl thiazolyl or pyridyl optionally substituted by 1 to 3 R. In one example In one example Ris phenyl pyrazolyl oxazolyl thiazolyl or pyridyl optionally substituted by 1 to 3 R wherein Ris independently C Calkyl C Calkyl OR C Calkyl NRR halo CF C O OR C O C Calkyl NRR C O C Calkyl C Cheterocyclyl C O NR C Calkyl C Cheterocyclyl C O NR C Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl C O NR C Calkyl C Cheteroaryl C O NR C Calkyl NRR C O NR C Calkyl Caryl wherein said alkyl is optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from OR NRR oxo and halo and said aryl heterocyclyl heteroaryl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from OR oxo halo CF NRR C Calkyl C Calkyl C Cheterocyclyl and C O C Calkyl . In one example Ris phenyl pyrazolyl oxazolyl thiazolyl or pyridyl optionally substituted by 1 R wherein Ris independently C O OR C O C Calkyl NRR C O C Calkyl C Cheterocyclyl C O NR C Calkyl C Cheterocyclyl C O NR C Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl C O NR C Calkyl C Cheteroaryl C O NR C Calkyl NRR C O NR C Calkyl Caryl wherein said alkyl is optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from OR NRR oxo and halo and said aryl heterocyclyl heteroaryl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from OR oxo halo CF NRR C Calkyl C Calkyl C Cheterocyclyl and C O C Calkyl .

In one embodiment Ris phenyl or pyridinyl optionally substituted by 1 to 3 R wherein Ris independently C Calkyl C Calkyl OR C Calkyl NRR halo CF S O R S O NRR NRS O R C Calkyl C Cheterocyclyl or C O OR wherein said alkyl is optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from OR NRR oxo S O R S O NRRand halo and said heterocyclyl is optionally substituted by 1 to 3 substituents independently selected from C Calkyl OR oxo halo CF C Calkyl NRR C Calkyl and C O R. In one example Ris selected from the following 

In one embodiment Ris phenyl or pyridinyl optionally substituted by 1 R wherein Ris independently C O C Calkyl NRR C O NR C Calkyl C Cheterocyclyl C O NR C Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl C O NR C Calkyl C Cheteroaryl C O NR C Calkyl NRR C O NR C Calkyl Caryl wherein said aryl heterocyclyl heteroaryl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from OR oxo halo CF NRR C Calkyl C Calkyl C Cheterocyclyl and C O C Calkyl . In one example Ris selected from the following 

In one embodiment Ris C Cheteroaryl optionally substituted by 1 to 3 R. In one example Ris pyrazolyl oxazolyl or thiazolyl optionally substituted by 1 or 2 R wherein Ris C Calkyl or C Calkyl C Cheterocyclyl wherein said alkyl is optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from OR NRR oxo and halo and said heterocyclyl is optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from OR oxo halo CF NRR C Calkyl C Calkyl C Cheterocyclyl and C O C Calkyl . In one example said heterocyclyl is pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydropyranyl piperidinyl piperazinyl or morpholinyl. In one example Ris selected from the following 

In one embodiment Ris independently C Calkyl C Calkyl OR C Calkyl NRR halo CN C Cheteroaryl C Cheterocyclyl C Ccycloalkyl Caryl C O OR C O C Calkyl NRR C O C Calkyl C Cheterocyclyl C O NR C Calkyl C Cheterocyclyl C O NR C Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl C O NR C Calkyl C Cheteroaryl C O NR C Calkyl NRR C O NR C Calkyl Caryl wherein said alkyl is optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from OR NRR oxo and halo and said aryl heterocyclyl heteroaryl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from OR oxo halo CF NRR C Calkyl and C O C Calkyl .

In one embodiment Ris C Cheterocyclyl optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from OH oxo halo CF NRR C Calkyl and C O C Calkyl .

In one embodiment heterocyclyl is pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydrothiophenyl 1 1 dioxotetrahydrothiophenyl piperidinyl piperizinyl tetrahydropyranyl thianyl morpholinyl pyridizinyl or hexahydropyrimidinyl.

In one embodiment Ris C O NR C Calkyl C Cheterocyclyl C O NR C Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl C O NR C Calkyl C Cheteroaryl C O NR C Calkyl NRR C O NR C Calkyl Caryl wherein said alkyl is optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from OR NRR oxo and halo and said aryl heterocyclyl heteroaryl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from OR oxo halo CF NRR C Calkyl and C O C Calkyl .

In one embodiment Ris C O OR C O C Calkyl NRRor C O C Calkyl C Cheterocyclyl wherein said alkyl is optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from OR NRR oxo and halo and said aryl heterocyclyl heteroaryl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from OR oxo halo CF NRR C Calkyl and C O C Calkyl .

In one embodiment Ris independently C Calkyl C Calkyl NRR C Calkyl C Cheterocyclyl C Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl or C O C Calkyl C Cheterocyclyl wherein said alkyl is optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from OR NRR oxo and halo and said heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from OR oxo halo CF NRR C Calkyl C Calkyl C Cheterocyclyl and C O C Calkyl . In one example Ris selected from the following 

In one embodiment Ris C Calkyl C Cheteroaryl optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from OR halo CF NRRand C Calkyl. In one example Ris pyridinyl optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from OR halo CF NRRand C Calkyl.

In one embodiment Ris C O OR wherein Ris independently H OR C O O C Calkyl C Calkyl Caryl or C Ccycloalkyl wherein said alkyl aryl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from C Calkyl C Calkyl OR oxo halo NRRand C Cheterocyclyl.

In one embodiment R Rand Rare independently H CH CFor F with the proviso that when Ris H then Ris H CHor F.

In one embodiment Ris phenyl C Cheteroaryl or C Cheterocyclyl wherein the phenyl heteroaryl and heterocyclyl are optionally substituted by 1 to 5 R.

In one embodiment Ris phenyl or pyridinyl optionally substituted by 2 R wherein Ris independently C Calkyl OCF OCH NH NO CHNH F Cl C O NRR NRC O R SO C Calkyl SONRR CN CF OCF C O R C O OR C Calkyl C Cheterocyclyl C O C Calkyl C Cheterocyclyl or C O NR C Calkyl C Cheterocyclyl wherein said heterocyclyl is optionally substituted by C Calkyl. In one example Ris selected from 

In one embodiment Ris pyrazolyl optionally substituted by 1 or 2 R wherein Ris independently Ris independently C Calkyl C Calkyl OR C Calkyl NRR C Calkyl C Caryl halo C Calkyl C Cheteroaryl C Calkyl C Cheterocyclyl or C Calkyl C Ccycloalkyl wherein said alkyl is optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from oxo NRR OR and halo and said aryl heteroaryl heterocyclyl and cycloalkyl are optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from OR halo CF NRRand C Calkyl. In one example Ris selected from

In one embodiment Ris independently C Calkyl C Calkyl OR C Calkyl NRR C Calkyl C Caryl halo C O NRR NRC O R SO C Calkyl SONRR CN nitro wherein said alkyl is optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from oxo and halo and said and said aryl is optionally substituted by 1 to 5 substituents independently selected from OR halo CF NRRand C Calkyl.

In one embodiment Ris independently C Calkyl C Calkyl OR C Calkyl NRR halo NRC O R SO C Calkyl SONRR CN or nitro.

In one embodiment Ris independently NH OCH CH CHCH CH CH NO OCF S O N CH S O NH CH CH S O NH C CH CN CF F Cl NHC O CHor S O CH C O N CH COH S O CH cyclopentyl 1 hydroxyethyl 1 aminoethyl or CHCF.

In one embodiment C Cheteroaryl is pyridinyl imidazolyl imidazopyridinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazolyl triazolyl pyrazinyl tetrazolyl furyl thienyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl oxazolyl isothiazolyl pyrrolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl indolyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl cinnolinyl indazolyl indolizinyl phthalazinyl pyridazinyl triazinyl isoindolyl pteridinyl purinyl oxadiazolyl triazolyl thiadiazolyl thiadiazolyl furazanyl benzofurazanyl benzothiophenyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl naphthyridinyl or furopyridinyl each of which is optionally substituted by 1 to 5 R.

In one embodiment Ris phenyl optionally substituted by 1 to 5 R and Ris phenyl optionally substituted by 1 to 5 R.

In one embodiment Ris phenyl optionally substituted by 1 to 5 R and Ris heterocyclyl optionally substituted by 1 to 5 R.

In one embodiment Ris pyridyl optionally substituted by 1 to 4 R and Ris phenyl optionally substituted by 1 to 5 R.

In one embodiment Ris pyridyl optionally substituted by 1 to 4 R and Ris heterocyclyl optionally substituted by 1 to 5 R.

In one embodiment Ris phenyl optionally substituted by 1 to 5 R and Ris pyridyl optionally substituted by 1 to 4 R.

In one embodiment Ris pyridyl optionally substituted by 1 to 4 R and Ris pyridyl optionally substituted by 1 to 4 R.

In one embodiment Ris phenyl or pyridinyl optionally substituted by 1 to 3 R wherein Ris independently C Calkyl halo CFor C O OR and Ris phenyl or pyridinyl optionally substituted by 2 R wherein Ris independently C Calkyl OCF OCH NH CHNH F Cl C O NRR NRC O R SO C Calkyl SONRR CN CF OCF C O R C O OR.

Another embodiment includes a compound of Formula I that has Kand or ECthat is at least 15 fold alternatively 10 fold or 5 fold or more selective in inhibiting one Janus kinase activity over inhibiting each of the other Janus kinase activities.

In another embodiment compounds of Formula I have Kfor JAK2 inhibition that is at least about 10 fold selective over one or any combination of JAK1 JAK3 and TYK2. In one example compounds of Formula I have Kfor JAK2 inhibition that is at least about 10 fold selective over all JAK1 JAK3 and TYK2. In another example compounds of Formula I have Kfor JAK2 inhibition that is at least about 8 fold selective over all JAK1 JAK3 and TYK2. In another example compounds of Formula I have Kfor JAK2 inhibition that is at least about 5 fold selective over all JAK1 JAK3 and TYK2.

The compounds of Formula I may contain asymmetric or chiral centers and therefore exist in different stereoisomeric forms. It is intended that all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of Formula I including but not limited to diastereomers enantiomers and atropisomers as well as mixtures thereof such as racemic mixtures form part of the present invention. In addition the present invention embraces all geometric and positional isomers. For example if a compound of Formula I incorporates a double bond or a fused ring both the cis and trans forms as well as mixtures are embraced within the scope of the invention. Both the single positional isomers and mixture of positional isomers e.g. resulting from the N oxidation of the pyrimidinyl and pyrrozolyl rings or the E and Z forms of compounds of Formula I for example oxime moieties are also within the scope of the present invention.

In the structures shown herein where the stereochemistry of any particular chiral atom is not specified then all stereoisomers are contemplated and included as the compounds of the invention. Where stereochemistry is specified by a solid wedge or dashed line representing a particular configuration then that stereoisomer is so specified and defined.

The compounds of the present invention may exist in unsolvated as well as solvated forms with pharmaceutically acceptable solvents such as water ethanol and the like and it is intended that the invention as defined by the claims embrace both solvated and unsolvated forms.

In an embodiment compounds of Formula I may exist in different tautomeric forms and all such forms are embraced within the scope of the invention as defined by the claims. The term tautomer or tautomeric form refers to structural isomers of different energies which are interconvertible via a low energy barrier. For example proton tautomers also known as prototropic tautomers include interconversions via migration of a proton such as keto enol and imine enamine isomerizations. Valence tautomers include interconversions by reorganization of some of the bonding electrons.

The present invention also embraces isotopically labeled compounds of Formula I which are identical to those recited herein but for the fact that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number usually found in nature. All isotopes of any particular atom or element as specified are contemplated within the scope of the invention. Exemplary isotopes that can be incorporated into compounds of Formula I include isotopes of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorus sulfur fluorine chlorine and iodine such as H H C C C N N O O O P P S F Cl I and I respectively. Certain isotopically labeled compounds of Formula I e.g. those labeled with H and C are useful in compound and or substrate tissue distribution assays. Tritiated i.e. H and carbon 14 i.e. C isotopes are useful for their ease of preparation and detectability. Further substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium i.e. H may afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability e.g. increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements and hence may be preferred in some circumstances. Positron emitting isotopes such as O N C and F are useful for positron emission tomography PET studies to examine substrate receptor occupancy. Isotopically labeled compounds of Formula I can generally be prepared by following procedures analogous to those disclosed in the Schemes and or in the Examples herein below by substituting an isotopically labeled reagent for a non isotopically labeled reagent.

Compounds of Formula I may be synthesized by synthetic routes described herein. In certain embodiments processes well known in the chemical arts can be used in addition to or in light of the description contained herein. The starting materials are generally available from commercial sources such as Aldrich Chemicals Milwaukee Wis. or are readily prepared using methods well known to those skilled in the art e.g. prepared by methods generally described in Louis F. Fieser and Mary Fieser v. 1 19 Wiley N.Y. 1967 1999 ed. Beilsteins Handbuch der organischen Chemie 4 Aufl. ed. Springer Verlag Berlin including supplements also available via the Beilstein online database or Editors Katrizky and Rees Pergamon Press 1984. Methods for triazolopyridine synthesis are also disclosed in WO 02 38572 and WO 2006 038116.

Compounds of Formula I may be prepared singly or as compound libraries comprising at least 2 for example 5 to 1 000 compounds or 10 to 100 compounds of Formula I. Libraries of compounds of Formula I may be prepared by a combinatorial split and mix approach or by multiple parallel syntheses using either solution phase or solid phase chemistry by procedures known to those skilled in the art. Thus according to a further aspect of the invention there is provided a compound library comprising at least 2 compounds of Formula I enantiomers diasteriomers tautomers or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

For illustrative purposes reaction schemes 1 6 depicted below provide routes for synthesizing the compounds of the present invention as well as key intermediates. For a more detailed description of the individual reaction steps see the Examples section below. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other synthetic routes may be used to synthesize the inventive compounds. Although specific starting materials and reagents are depicted in the Schemes and discussed below other starting materials and reagents can be easily substituted to provide a variety of derivatives and or reaction conditions. In addition many of the compounds prepared by the methods described below can be further modified in light of this disclosure using conventional chemistry well known to those skilled in the art.

In the preparation of compounds of the present invention protection of remote functionality e.g. primary or secondary amine of intermediates may be necessary. The need for such protection will vary depending on the nature of the remote functionality and the conditions of the preparation methods. Suitable amino protecting groups NH Pg include acetyl trifluoroacetyl t butoxycarbonyl BOC benzyloxycarbonyl CBz and 9 fluorenylmethyleneoxycarbonyl Fmoc . The need for such protection is readily determined by one skilled in the art. For a general description of protecting groups and their use see T. W. Greene Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis John Wiley Sons New York 1991.

Compounds of the invention may be prepared from readily available starting materials using the general methods illustrated in Reaction Schemes 1 6 below.

For example compounds of Formula I can be synthesized as shown in Reaction Scheme 1. A common intermediate 5 bromo 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridin 2 amine 4 which is available from 2 amino 6 bromopyridine 2 can be subjected to palladium catalyzed coupling reactions such as the Suzuki reaction with boronic acids or boronate esters to form compounds of Formula 5. Palladium catalyzed amination of aryl or heteroaryl halides with triazolopyridinamine 5 provides compounds of Formula 1a wherein R R Rand Rare as defined above for Formula I.

Reaction Scheme 2 illustrates the synthesis of compounds of Formulas 1b and 1c. Palladium catalyzed amination of methoxycarbonyl substituted phenyl halides or methoxycarbonyl substituted heteroaryl halides 6 with triazolopyridinamine 5 provides compounds of Formula 7. Hydrolysis of the corresponding methyl esters affords carboxylic acids 1b which can be subjected to standard amide formation methods to yield amides 1c wherein R R Rand Rare as defined above for Formula I.

An alternative method for the synthesis of compounds of Formula I proceeds via the 2 iodotriazolopyridine 8 as shown in Reaction Scheme 3. Diazotization of triazolopyridinamine 5 and in situ iodide substitution provide iodotriazolopyridine 8. Palladium catalyzed amination of iodotriazolopyridine 8 with amines affords compounds of Formula 1a wherein Rand Rare as defined above for Formula I.

Reaction Scheme 4 illustrates the synthesis of compounds of Formula 1d. Palladium catalyzed amination of triazolopyridinamine 5 with halophenyl or haloheteroaryl substituted N methoxy N methyl amides furnishes compounds of Formula 10. Lithium aluminum hydride reduction of the N methoxy N methyl amide 10 provides the corresponding aldehyde 11. Reductive amination of aldehyde 11 with amines and a reducing reagent such as sodium cyanoborohydride provides amine 1d wherein R R Rand Rare as defined above for Formula I.

The synthesis of compounds of Formula 1e by sequential palladium catalyzed aminations is shown is Reaction Scheme 5. Palladium catalyzed amination of 5 bromo 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridin 2 amine 4 with amines RRNH provides amino substituted compounds of Formula 12. Subsequent palladium catalyzed amination of triazolopyridinamine 12 with aryl halides or heteroaryl halides yields compounds of Formula 1e wherein R Rand Rare as defined above for Formula I.

Carbamates of Formula 1f can be synthesized as illustrated in Reaction Scheme 6 by treatment of triazolopyridinamine 5 with chloroformates wherein Rand Rare as defined above for Formula I.

It will be appreciated that where appropriate functional groups exist compounds of various formulae or any intermediates used in their preparation may be further derivatised by one or more standard synthetic methods employing condensation substitution oxidation reduction or cleavage reactions. Particular substitution approaches include conventional alkylation arylation heteroarylation acylation sulfonylation halogenation nitration formylation and coupling procedures.

In a further example primary amine or secondary amine groups may be converted into amide groups NHCOR or NRCOR by acylation. Acylation may be achieved by reaction with an appropriate acid chloride in the presence of a base such as triethylamine in a suitable solvent such as dichloromethane or by reaction with an appropriate carboxylic acid in the presence of a suitable coupling agent such HATU O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate in a suitable solvent such as dichloromethane. Similarly amine groups may be converted into sulphonamide groups NHSOR or NR SOR groups by reaction with an appropriate sulphonyl chloride in the presence of a suitable base such as triethylamine in a suitable solvent such as dichloromethane. Primary or secondary amine groups can be converted into urea groups NHCONR R or NRCONR R by reaction with an appropriate isocyanate in the presence of a suitable base such as triethylamine in a suitable solvent such as dichloromethane.

An amine NH may be obtained by reduction of a nitro NO group for example by catalytic hydrogenation using for example hydrogen in the presence of a metal catalyst for example palladium on a support such as carbon in a solvent such as ethyl acetate or an alcohol e.g. methanol. Alternatively the transformation may be carried out by chemical reduction using for example a metal e.g. tin or iron in the presence of an acid such as hydrochloric acid.

In a further example amine CHNH groups may be obtained by reduction of nitriles CN for example by catalytic hydrogenation using for example hydrogen in the presence of a metal catalyst for example palladium on a support such as carbon or Raney nickel in a solvent such as an ether e.g. a cyclic ether such as tetrahydrofuran at an appropriate temperature for example from about 78 C. to the reflux temperature of the solvent.

In a further example amine NH groups may be obtained from carboxylic acid groups COH by conversion to the corresponding acyl azide CON Curtius rearrangement and hydrolysis of the resultant isocyanate N C O .

Aldehyde groups CHO may be converted to amine groups CHNR R by reductive amination employing an amine and a borohydride for example sodium triacetoxyborohydride or sodium cyanoborohydride in a solvent such as a halogenated hydrocarbon for example dichloromethane or an alcohol such as ethanol where necessary in the presence of an acid such as acetic acid at around ambient temperature.

In a further example aldehyde groups may be converted into alkenyl groups CH CHR by the use of a Wittig or Wadsworth Emmons reaction using an appropriate phosphorane or phosphonate under standard conditions known to those skilled in the art.

Aldehyde groups may be obtained by reduction of ester groups such as COEt or nitriles CN using diisobutylaluminium hydride in a suitable solvent such as toluene. Alternatively aldehyde groups may be obtained by the oxidation of alcohol groups using any suitable oxidising agent known to those skilled in the art.

Ester groups COR may be converted into the corresponding acid group COH by acid or base catalused hydrolysis depending on the nature of R. If R is t butyl acid catalysed hydrolysis can be achieved for example by treatment with an organic acid such as trifluoroacetic acid in an aqueous solvent or by treatment with an inorganic acid such as hydrochloric acid in an aqueous solvent.

Carboxylic acid groups COH may be converted into amides CONHR or CONR R by reaction with an appropriate amine in the presence of a suitable coupling agent such as HATU in a suitable solvent such as dichloromethane.

In a further example carboxylic acids may be homologated by one carbon i.e COH to CHCOH by conversion to the corresponding acid chloride COCl followed by Arndt Eistert synthesis.

In a further example OH groups may be generated from the corresponding ester e.g. COR or aldehyde CHO by reduction using for example a complex metal hydride such as lithium aluminium hydride in diethyl ether or tetrahydrofuran or sodium borohydride in a solvent such as methanol. Alternatively an alcohol may be prepared by reduction of the corresponding acid COH using for example lithium aluminium hydride in a solvent such as tetrahydrofuran or by using borane in a solvent such as tetrahydrofuran.

Alcohol groups may be converted into leaving groups such as halogen atoms or sulfonyloxy groups such as an alkylsulfonyloxy e.g. trifluoromethylsulfonyloxy or arylsulfonyloxy e.g. p toluenesulfonyloxy group using conditions known to those skilled in the art. For example an alcohol may be reacted with thioyl chloride in a halogenated hydrocarbon e.g. dichloromethane to yield the corresponding chloride. A base e.g. triethylamine may also be used in the reaction.

In another example alcohol phenol or amide groups may be alkylated by coupling a phenol or amide with an alcohol in a solvent such as tetrahydrofuran in the presence of a phosphine e.g. triphenylphosphine and an activator such as diethyl diisopropyl or dimethylazodicarboxylate. Alternatively alkylation may be achieved by deprotonation using a suitable base e.g. sodium hydride followed by subsequent addition of an alkylating agent such as an alkyl halide.

Aromatic halogen substituents in the compounds may be subjected to halogen metal exchange by treatment with a base for example a lithium base such as n butyl or t butyl lithium optionally at a low temperature e.g. around 78 C. in a solvent such as tetrahydrofuran and then quenched with an electrophile to introduce a desired substituent. Thus for example a formyl group may be introduced by using N N dimethylformamide as the electrophile. Aromatic halogen substituents may alternatively be subjected to metal e.g. palladium or copper catalysed reactions to introduce for example acid ester cyano amide aryl heteraryl alkenyl alkynyl thio or amino substituents. Suitable procedures which may be employed include those described by Heck Suzuki Stille Buchwald or Hartwig.

Aromatic halogen substituents may also undergo nucleophilic displacement following reaction with an appropriate nucleophile such as an amine or an alcohol. Advantageously such a reaction may be carried out at elevated temperature in the presence of microwave irradiation.

In each of the exemplary Schemes it may be advantageous to separate reaction products from one another and or from starting materials. The desired products of each step or series of steps is separated and or purified hereinafter separated to the desired degree of homogeneity by the techniques common in the art. Typically such separations involve multiphase extraction crystallization from a solvent or solvent mixture distillation sublimation or chromatography. Chromatography can involve any number of methods including for example reverse phase and normal phase size exclusion ion exchange high medium and low pressure liquid chromatography methods and apparatus small scale analytical simulated moving bed SMB and preparative thin or thick layer chromatography as well as techniques of small scale thin layer and flash chromatography.

Another class of separation methods involves treatment of a mixture with a reagent selected to bind to or render otherwise separable a desired product unreacted starting material reaction by product or the like. Such reagents include adsorbents or absorbents such as activated carbon molecular sieves ion exchange media or the like. Alternatively the reagents can be acids in the case of a basic material bases in the case of an acidic material binding reagents such as antibodies binding proteins selective chelators such as crown ethers liquid liquid ion extraction reagents LIX or the like.

Selection of appropriate methods of separation depends on the nature of the materials involved. For example boiling point and molecular weight in distillation and sublimation presence or absence of polar functional groups in chromatography stability of materials in acidic and basic media in multiphase extraction and the like. One skilled in the art will apply techniques most likely to achieve the desired separation.

Diastereomeric mixtures can be separated into their individual diastereoisomers on the basis of their physical chemical differences by methods well known to those skilled in the art such as by chromatography and or fractional crystallization. Enantiomers can be separated by converting the enantiomeric mixture into a diastereomeric mixture by reaction with an appropriate optically active compound e.g. chiral auxiliary such as a chiral alcohol or Mosher s acid chloride separating the diastereoisomers and converting e.g. hydrolyzing the individual diastereoisomers to the corresponding pure enantiomers. Also some of the compounds of the present invention may be atropisomers e.g. substituted biaryls and are considered as part of this invention. Enantiomers can also be separated by use of a chiral HPLC column.

A single stereoisomer e.g. an enantiomer substantially free of its stereoisomer may be obtained by resolution of the racemic mixture using a method such as formation of diastereomers using optically active resolving agents Eliel E. and Wilen S. John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994 Lochmuller C. H. 113 3 283 302 1975 . Racemic mixtures of chiral compounds of the invention can be separated and isolated by any suitable method including 1 formation of ionic diastereomeric salts with chiral compounds and separation by fractional crystallization or other methods 2 formation of diastereomeric compounds with chiral derivatizing reagents separation of the diastereomers and conversion to the pure stereoisomers and 3 separation of the substantially pure or enriched stereoisomers directly under chiral conditions. See Irving W. Wainer Ed. Marcel Dekker Inc. New York 1993 .

Diastereomeric salts can be formed by reaction of enantiomerically pure chiral bases such as brucine quinine ephedrine strychnine methyl phenylethylamine amphetamine and the like with asymmetric compounds bearing acidic functionality such as carboxylic acid and sulfonic acid. The diastereomeric salts may be induced to separate by fractional crystallization or ionic chromatography. For separation of the optical isomers of amino compounds addition of chiral carboxylic or sulfonic acids such as camphorsulfonic acid tartaric acid mandelic acid or lactic acid can result in formation of the diastereomeric salts.

Alternatively the substrate to be resolved is reacted with one enantiomer of a chiral compound to form a diastereomeric pair Eliel E. and Wilen S. John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994 p. 322 . Diastereomeric compounds can be formed by reacting asymmetric compounds with enantiomerically pure chiral derivatizing reagents such as menthyl derivatives followed by separation of the diastereomers and hydrolysis to yield the pure or enriched enantiomer. A method of determining optical purity involves making chiral esters such as a menthyl ester e.g. menthyl chloroformate in the presence of base or Mosher ester methoxy trifluoromethyl phenyl acetate Jacob 47 4165 1982 of the racemic mixture and analyzing the NMR spectrum for the presence of the two atropisomeric enantiomers or diastereomers. Stable diastereomers of atropisomeric compounds can be separated and isolated by normal and reverse phase chromatography following methods for separation of atropisomeric naphthyl isoquinolines WO 96 15111 . By method 3 a racemic mixture of two enantiomers can be separated by chromatography using a chiral stationary phase W. J. Lough Ed. Chapman and Hall New York 1989 Okamoto 513 375 378 1990 . Enriched or purified enantiomers can be distinguished by methods used to distinguish other chiral molecules with asymmetric carbon atoms such as optical rotation and circular dichroism.

Positional isomers for example E and Z forms of compounds of Formula I and intermediates for their synthesis may be observed by characterization methods such as NMR and analytical HPLC. For certain compounds where the energy barrier for interconversion is sufficiently high the E and Z isomers may be separated for example by preparatory HPLC.

Previous studies have shown that the isolated kinase domains of human JAK1 JAK2 JAK3 or TYK2 phosphorylate peptide substrates in in vitro kinase assays Saltzman et al. 246 627 633 2004 . The catalytically active kinase domain of human JAK1 JAK2 JAK3 or TYK2 was purified from extracts of SF9 insect cells infected with a recombinant baculovirus expression vector encoding the human JAK1 JAK2 JAK3 or TYK2 kinase domains JAK1 amino acid residues N852 D1154 according to the numbering of GenBank sequence accession number P23458 JAK2 amino acid residues D812 G1132 according to the numbering of GenBank sequence accession number NP004963.1 JAK3 amino acid residues S783 S1124 according to the numbering of GenBank sequence accession number P52333 and TYK2 amino acid residues N873 C1187 according to the numbering of GenBank sequence accession number P29597 . The activity of the JAK1 JAK2 JAK3 or TYK2 kinase domains can be measured by a number of direct and indirect methods including quantification of phosphorylation of peptide substrates derived from the human JAK3 protein Saltzman et al. 246 627 633 2004 . The activity of the JAK1 JAK2 JAK3 or TYK2 kinase domains was measured in vitro by monitoring phosphorylation of JAK3 derived peptides using the Caliper LabChip technology see Examples .

The compounds of the present invention are tested for their capacity to inhibit a Janus kinase activity and activation primary assays and for their biological effects on growing cells secondary assays as described herein. The compounds having ICof less than 10 M preferably less than 5 M more preferably less than 1 M most preferably less than 0.5 M in the appropriate Janus kinase activity and activation assay see Examples A and B and ECof less than 20 M preferably less than 10 M more preferably less than 5 M most preferably less than 1 M in the appropriate cellular assays see Example C are useful as Janus kinase inhibitors.

Another embodiment includes a method of treating or lessening the severity of a disease or condition responsive to the inhibition of one or more Janus kinase activity selected from JAK1 JAK2 JAK3 and TYK2 in a patient. The method includes administering to the patient a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I.

Another embodiment includes a method of treating or lessening the severity of a disease or condition responsive to the inhibition of JAK2 kinase activity in a patient. The method includes the step of administering to a patient a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I.

In one embodiment the disease or condition is cancer stroke diabetes hepatomegaly cardiovascular disease multiple sclerosis Alzheimer s disease cystic fibrosis viral disease autoimmune diseases atherosclerosis restenosis psoriasis allergic disorders inflammation neurological disorders a hormone related disease conditions associated with organ transplantation immunodeficiency disorders destructive bone disorders proliferative disorders infectious diseases conditions associated with cell death thrombin induced platelet aggregation liver disease pathologic immune conditions involving T cell activation CNS disorders or a myeloproliferative disorder.

In one embodiment the myeloproliferative disorder is polycythemia vera essential thrombocytosis myelofibrosis or chronic myelogenous leukemia CML .

In one embodiment the cancer is breast ovary cervix prostate testis penile genitourinary tract seminoma esophagus larynx gastric stomach gastrointestinal skin keratoacanthoma follicular carcinoma melanoma lung small cell lung carcinoma non small cell lung carcinoma NSCLC lung adenocarcinoma squamous carcinoma of the lung colon pancreas thyroid papillary bladder liver biliary passage kidney bone myeloid disorders lymphoid disorders hairy cells buccal cavity and pharynx oral lip tongue mouth salivary gland pharynx small intestine colon rectum anal renal prostate vulval thyroid large intestine endometrial uterine brain central nervous system cancer of the peritoneum hepatocellular cancer head cancer neck cancer Hodgkin s or leukemia.

In one embodiment the cardiovascular disease is restenosis cardiomegaly atherosclerosis myocardial infarction or congestive heart failure.

In one embodiment the neurodegenerative disease is Alzheimer s disease Parkinson s disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis Huntington s disease and cerebral ischemia and neurodegenerative disease caused by traumatic injury glutamate neurotoxicity or hypoxia.

In one embodiment the inflammatory diseases is rheumatoid arthritis psoriasis contact dermatitis or delayed hypersensitivity reactions.

Evaluation of drug induced immunosuppression by the compounds of the invention may be performed using in vivo functional tests such as rodent models of induced arthritis and therapeutic or prophylactic treatment to assess disease score T cell dependent antibody response TDAR and delayed type hypersensitivity DTH . Other in vivo systems including murine models of host defense against infections or tumor resistance Burleson G R Dean J H and Munson A E. 1. Wiley Liss New York 1995 may be considered to elucidate the nature or mechanisms of observed immunosuppression. The in vivo test systems can be complemented by well established in vitro or ex vivo functional assays for the assessment of immune competence. These assays may comprise B or T cell proliferation in response to mitogens or specific antigens measurement of signaling through one or more of the Janus kinase pathways in B or T cells or immortalized B or T cell lines measurement of cell surface markers in response to B or T cell signaling natural killer NK cell activity mast cell activity mast cell degranulation macrophage phagocytosis or kill activity and neutrophil oxidative burst and or chemotaxis. In each of these tests determination of cytokine production by particular effector cells e.g. lymphocytes NK monocytes macrophages neutrophils may be included. The in vitro and ex vivo assays can be applied in both preclinical and clinical testing using lymphoid tissues and or peripheral blood House RV. Theory and practice of cytokine assessment in immunotoxicology 1999 Methods 19 17 27 Hubbard A K. Effects of xenobiotics on macrophage function evaluation in vitro 1999 Methods 19 8 16 Lebrec H et al 2001 Toxicology 158 25 29 .

Collagen Induced Arthritis CIA 6 week detailed study using an autoimmune mechanism to mimic human arthritis rat and mouse models Example 68 . Collagen induced arthritis CIA is one of the most commonly used animal models of human rheumatoid arthritis RA . Joint inflammation which develops in animals with CIA strongly resembles inflammation observed in patients with RA. Blocking tumor necrosis factor TNF is an efficacious treatment of CIA just as it is a highly efficacious therapy in treatment of RA patients. CIA is mediated by both T cells and antibodies B cells . Macrophages are believed to play an important role in mediating tissue damage during disease development. CIA is induced by immunizing animals with collagen emulsified in Complete Freund s Adjuvant CFA . It is most commonly induced in the DBA 1 mouse strain but the disease can also be induced in Lewis rats.

There is good evidence that B cells play a key role in the pathogenesis of autoimmune and or inflammatory disease. Protein based therapeutics that deplete B cells such as Rituxan are effective against autoantibody driven inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis Rastetter et al. 2004 Annu Rev Med 55 477 . CD69 is the early activation marker in leukocytes including T cells thymocytes B cells NK cells neutrophils and eosinophils. The CD69 human whole blood assay Example 69 determines the ability of compounds to inhibit the production of CD69 by B lymphocytes in human whole blood activated by crosslinking surface IgM with goat F ab 2 anti human IgM.

The T cell Dependent Antibody Response TDAR is a predictive assay for immune function testing when potential immunotoxic effects of compounds need to be studied. The IgM Plaque Forming Cell PFC assay using Sheep Red Blood Cells SRBC as the antigen is currently a widely accepted and validated standard test. TDAR has proven to be a highly predictable assay for adult exposure immunotoxicity detection in mice based on the US National Toxicology Program NTP database M. I. Luster et al 1992 Fundam. Appl. Toxicol. 18 200 210 . The utility of this assay stems from the fact that it is a holistic measurement involving several important components of an immune response. A TDAR is dependent on functions of the following cellular compartments 1 antigen presenting cells such as macrophages or dendritic cells 2 T helper cells which are critical players in the genesis of the response as well as in isotype switching and 3 B cells which are the ultimate effector cells and are responsible for antibody production. Chemically induced changes in any one compartment can cause significant changes in the overall TDAR M. P. Holsapple In G. R. Burleson J. H. Dean and A. E. Munson Editors 1 Wiley Liss Publishers New York N.Y. 1995 pp. 71 108 . Usually this assay is performed either as an ELISA for measurement of soluble antibody R. J. Smialowizc et al 2001 Toxicol. Sci. 61 164 175 or as a plaque or antibody forming cell assay L. Guo et al 2002 Toxicol. Appl. Pharmacol. 181 219 227 to detect plasma cells secreting antigen specific antibodies. The antigen of choice is either whole cells e.g. sheep erythrocytes or soluble protein antigens T. Miller et al 1998 Toxicol. Sci. 42 129 135 .

A compound of Formula I may be administered by any route appropriate to the disease or condition to be treated. Suitable routes include oral parenteral including subcutaneous intramuscular intravenous intraarterial intradermal intrathecal and epidural transdermal rectal nasal topical including buccal and sublingual vaginal intraperitoneal intrapulmonary and intranasal. For local immunosuppressive treatment the compounds may be administered by intralesional administration including perfusing or otherwise contacting the graft with the inhibitor before transplantation. It will be appreciated that the preferred route may vary with for example the condition of the recipient. Where the compound of Formula I is administered orally it may be formulated as a pill capsule tablet etc. with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. Where the compound of Formula I is administered parenterally it may be formulated with a pharmaceutically acceptable parenteral vehicle and in a unit dosage injectable form as detailed below.

A dose to treat human patients may range from about 10 mg to about 1000 mg of a compound of Formula I. A typical dose may be about 100 mg to about 300 mg of a compound of Formula I. A dose may be administered once a day QD twice per day BID or more frequently depending on the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties including absorption distribution metabolism and excretion of the particular compound. In addition toxicity factors may influence the dosage and administration regimen. When administered orally the pill capsule or tablet may be ingested daily or less frequently for a specified period of time. The regimen may be repeated for a number of cycles of therapy.

Another embodiment of the invention aspect of this invention provides a compound of this invention for use as a medicament in the treatment of the diseases or conditions described herein in a mammal for example a human suffering from such disease or condition. Also provided is the use of a compound of this invention in the preparation of a medicament for the treatment of the diseases and conditions described herein in a warm blooded animal such as a mammal for example a human suffering from such disorder.

Another embodiment includes a pharmaceutical composition that includes a compound of Formula I and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier adjuvant or vehicle.

In one embodiment the pharmaceutical composition also includes an additional therapeutic agent selected from an anti proliferative agent an anti inflammatory agent an immunomodulatory agent a neurotropic factor an agent for treating cardiovascular disease an agent for treating liver disease an anti viral agent an agent for treating blood disorders an agent for treating diabetes or an agent for treating immunodeficiency disorders.

In one embodiment a compound of Formula I is present in a pharmaceutical formulation in an amount to detectably inhibit JAK2 kinase activity and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier adjuvant or vehicle.

In one embodiment a compound of Formula I is present in a pharmaceutical formulation in an amount to detectably inhibit JAK2 kinase activity and is at least 10 fold or more selective in inhibiting JAK2 kinase activity over inhibiting each of JAK1 JAK3 and Tyk 2 activity.

In one embodiment a compound of Formula I is present in a pharmaceutical formulation in an amount to detectably inhibit a Janus kinase activity and is at least 15 fold alternatively 10 fold or 5 fold or more selective in inhibiting one Janus kinase activity over inhibiting each of the other JAK1 JAK2 JAK3 and or Tyk 2 activity.

A typical formulation is prepared by mixing a compound of the present invention and a carrier diluent or excipient. Suitable carriers diluents and excipients are well known to those skilled in the art and include materials such as carbohydrates waxes water soluble and or swellable polymers hydrophilic or hydrophobic materials gelatin oils solvents water and the like. The particular carrier diluent or excipient used will depend upon the means and purpose for which the compound of the present invention is being applied. Solvents are generally selected based on solvents recognized by persons skilled in the art as safe GRAS to be administered to a mammal. In general safe solvents are non toxic aqueous solvents such as water and other non toxic solvents that are soluble or miscible in water. Suitable aqueous solvents include water ethanol propylene glycol polyethylene glycols e.g. PEG400 PEG300 etc. and mixtures thereof. The formulations may also include one or more buffers stabilizing agents surfactants wetting agents lubricating agents emulsifiers suspending agents preservatives antioxidants opaquing agents glidants processing aids colorants sweeteners perfuming agents flavoring agents and other known additives to provide an elegant presentation of the drug i.e. a compound of the present invention or pharmaceutical composition thereof or aid in the manufacturing of the pharmaceutical product i.e. medicament .

The formulations may be prepared using conventional dissolution and mixing procedures. For example the bulk drug substance i.e. compound of the present invention or stabilized form of the compound such as a complex with a cyclodextrin derivative or other known complexation agent is dissolved in a suitable solvent in the presence of one or more of the excipients described above. The compound of the present invention is typically formulated into pharmaceutical dosage forms to provide an easily controllable dosage of the drug and to enable patient compliance with the prescribed regimen.

The pharmaceutical composition or formulation for application may be packaged in a variety of ways depending upon the method used for administering the drug. Generally an article for distribution includes a container having deposited therein the pharmaceutical formulation in an appropriate form. Suitable containers are well known to those skilled in the art and include materials such as bottles plastic and glass sachets ampoules plastic bags metal cylinders and the like. The container may also include a tamper proof assemblage to prevent indiscreet access to the contents of the package. In addition the container has deposited thereon a label that describes the contents of the container. The label may also include appropriate warnings.

Pharmaceutical formulations of a compound of Formula I may be prepared for various routes and types of administration. A compound of Formula I having the desired degree of purity is optionally mixed with pharmaceutically acceptable diluents carriers excipients or stabilizers Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 1980 16th edition Osol A. Ed. in the form of a lyophilized formulation milled powder or an aqueous solution. Formulation may be conducted by mixing at ambient temperature at the appropriate pH and at the desired degree of purity with physiologically acceptable carriers i.e. carriers that are non toxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed. The pH of the formulation depends mainly on the particular use and the concentration of compound but may range from about 3 to about 8. Formulation in an acetate buffer at pH 5 is a suitable embodiment.

The inhibitory compound for use herein is preferably sterile. The compound ordinarily will be stored as a solid composition although lyophilized formulations or aqueous solutions are acceptable.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the invention will be formulated dosed and administered in a fashion i.e. amounts concentrations schedules course vehicles and route of administration consistent with good medical practice. Factors for consideration in this context include the particular disorder being treated the particular mammal being treated the clinical condition of the individual patient the cause of the disorder the site of delivery of the agent the method of administration the scheduling of administration and other factors known to medical practitioners. The therapeutically effective amount of the compound to be administered will be governed by such considerations and is the minimum amount necessary to prevent ameliorate or treat the disorder. Such amount is preferably below the amount that is toxic to the host.

As a general proposition the initial pharmaceutically effective amount of the inhibitor administered parenterally per dose will be in the range of about 0.01 100 mg kg namely about 0.1 to 20 mg kg of patient body weight per day with the typical initial range of compound used being 0.3 to 15 mg kg day.

Acceptable diluents carriers excipients and stabilizers are nontoxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed and include buffers such as phosphate citrate and other organic acids antioxidants including ascorbic acid and methionine preservatives such as octadecyldimethylbenzyl ammonium chloride hexamethonium chloride benzalkonium chloride benzethonium chloride phenol butyl or benzyl alcohol alkyl parabens such as methyl or propyl paraben catechol resorcinol cyclohexanol 3 pentanol and m cresol low molecular weight less than about 10 residues polypeptides proteins such as serum albumin gelatin or immunoglobulins hydrophilic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone amino acids such as glycine glutamine asparagine histidine arginine or lysine monosaccharides disaccharides and other carbohydrates including glucose mannose or dextrins chelating agents such as EDTA sugars such as sucrose mannitol trehalose or sorbitol salt forming counter ions such as sodium metal complexes e.g. Zn protein complexes and or non ionic surfactants such as TWEEN PLURONICS or polyethylene glycol PEG . The active pharmaceutical ingredients may also be entrapped in microcapsules prepared for example by coacervation techniques or by interfacial polymerization for example hydroxymethylcellulose or gelatin microcapsules and poly methylmethacylate microcapsules respectively in colloidal drug delivery systems for example liposomes albumin microspheres microemulsions nano particles and nanocapsules or in macroemulsions. Such techniques are disclosed in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 16th edition Osol A. Ed. 1980 .

Sustained release preparations may be prepared. Suitable examples of sustained release preparations include semipermeable matrices of solid hydrophobic polymers containing a compound of Formula I which matrices are in the form of shaped articles e.g. films or microcapsules. Examples of sustained release matrices include polyesters hydrogels for example poly 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate or poly vinylalcohol polylactides U.S. Pat. No. 3 773 919 copolymers of L glutamic acid and gamma ethyl L glutamate non degradable ethylene vinyl acetate degradable lactic acid glycolic acid copolymers such as the LUPRON DEPOT injectable microspheres composed of lactic acid glycolic acid copolymer and leuprolide acetate and poly D 3 hydroxybutyric acid.

The formulations to be used for in vivo administration must be sterile which is readily accomplished by filtration through sterile filtration membranes.

The formulations include those suitable for the administration routes detailed herein. The formulations may conveniently be presented in unit dosage form and may be prepared by any of the methods well known in the art of pharmacy. Techniques and formulations generally are found in Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. . Such methods include the step of bringing into association the active ingredient with the carrier which constitutes one or more accessory ingredients. In general the formulations are prepared by uniformly and intimately bringing into association the active ingredient with liquid carriers or finely divided solid carriers or both and then if necessary shaping the product.

Formulations of a compound of Formula I suitable for oral administration may be prepared as discrete units such as pills capsules cachets or tablets each containing a predetermined amount of the compound of Formula I.

Compressed tablets may be prepared by compressing in a suitable machine the active ingredient in a free flowing form such as a powder or granules optionally mixed with a binder lubricant inert diluent preservative surface active or dispersing agent. Molded tablets may be made by molding in a suitable machine a mixture of the powdered active ingredient moistened with an inert liquid diluent. The tablets may optionally be coated or scored and optionally are formulated so as to provide slow or controlled release of the active ingredient therefrom.

Tablets troches lozenges aqueous or oil suspensions dispersible powders or granules emulsions hard or soft capsules e.g. gelatin capsules syrups or elixirs may be prepared for oral use. Formulations of a compound of Formula I intended for oral use may be prepared according to any method known to the art for the manufacture of pharmaceutical compositions and such compositions may contain one or more agents including sweetening agents flavoring agents coloring agents and preserving agents in order to provide a palatable preparation. Tablets containing the active ingredient in admixture with non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable excipient which are suitable for manufacture of tablets are acceptable. These excipients may be for example inert diluents such as calcium or sodium carbonate lactose calcium or sodium phosphate granulating and disintegrating agents such as maize starch or alginic acid binding agents such as starch gelatin or acacia and lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate stearic acid or talc. Tablets may be uncoated or may be coated by known techniques including microencapsulation to delay disintegration and adsorption in the gastrointestinal tract and thereby provide a sustained action over a longer period. For example a time delay material such as glyceryl monostearate or glyceryl distearate alone or with a wax may be employed.

For infections of the eye or other external tissues e.g. mouth and skin the formulations are preferably applied as a topical ointment or cream containing the active ingredient s in an amount of for example 0.075 to 20 w w. When formulated in an ointment the active ingredients may be employed with either a paraffinic or a water miscible ointment base. Alternatively the active ingredients may be formulated in a cream with an oil in water cream base.

If desired the aqueous phase of the cream base may include a polyhydric alcohol i.e. an alcohol having two or more hydroxyl groups such as propylene glycol butane 1 3 diol mannitol sorbitol glycerol and polyethylene glycol including PEG 400 and mixtures thereof. The topical formulations may desirably include a compound which enhances absorption or penetration of the active ingredient through the skin or other affected areas. Examples of such dermal penetration enhancers include dimethyl sulfoxide and related analogs.

The oily phase of the emulsions of this invention may be constituted from known ingredients in a known manner. While the phase may comprise merely an emulsifier otherwise known as an emulgent it desirably comprises a mixture of at least one emulsifier with a fat or an oil or with both a fat and an oil. Preferably a hydrophilic emulsifier is included together with a lipophilic emulsifier which acts as a stabilizer. It is also preferred to include both an oil and a fat. Together the emulsifier s with or without stabilizer s make up the so called emulsifying wax and the wax together with the oil and fat make up the so called emulsifying ointment base which forms the oily dispersed phase of the cream formulations. Emulgents and emulsion stabilizers suitable for use in the formulation of the invention include Tween 60 Span 80 cetostearyl alcohol benzyl alcohol myristyl alcohol glyceryl mono stearate and sodium lauryl sulfate.

Aqueous suspensions of the invention contain the active materials in admixture with excipients suitable for the manufacture of aqueous suspensions. Such excipients include a suspending agent such as sodium carboxymethylcellulose croscarmellose povidone methylcellulose hydroxypropyl methylcelluose sodium alginate polyvinylpyrrolidone gum tragacanth and gum acacia and dispersing or wetting agents such as a naturally occurring phosphatide e.g. lecithin a condensation product of an alkyl oxide e.g. ethylene oxide propylene oxide with a fatty acid e.g. polyoxyethylene stearate a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a long chain aliphatic alcohol e.g. heptadecaethyleneoxycetanol a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a partial ester derived from a fatty acid and a hexitol anhydride e.g. polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate . The aqueous suspension may also contain one or more preservatives such as ethyl or n propyl p hydroxy benzoate one or more coloring agents one or more flavoring agents and one or more sweetening agents such as sucrose or saccharin.

The pharmaceutical composition of a compound of Formula I may be in the form of a sterile injectable preparation such as a sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous suspension. This suspension may be formulated according to the known art using those suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents which have been mentioned above. The sterile injectable preparation may also be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a non toxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent such as a solution in 1 3 butane diol or prepared as a lyophilized powder. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that may be employed are water Ringer s solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition sterile fixed oils may conventionally be employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil may be employed including synthetic mono or diglycerides. In addition fatty acids such as oleic acid may likewise be used in the preparation of injectables.

The amount of active ingredient that may be combined with the carrier material to produce a single dosage form will vary depending upon the host treated and the particular mode of administration. For example a time release formulation intended for oral administration to humans may contain approximately 1 to 1000 mg of active material compounded with an appropriate and convenient amount of carrier material which may vary from about 5 to about 95 of the total compositions weight weight . The pharmaceutical composition can be prepared to provide easily measurable amounts for administration. For example an aqueous solution intended for intravenous infusion may contain from about 3 to 500 g of the active ingredient per milliliter of solution in order that infusion of a suitable volume at a rate of about 30 mL hr can occur.

Formulations suitable for parenteral administration include aqueous and non aqueous sterile injection solutions which may contain anti oxidants buffers bacteriostats and solutes which render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient and aqueous and non aqueous sterile suspensions which may include suspending agents and thickening agents.

Formulations suitable for topical administration to the eye also include eye drops wherein the active ingredient is dissolved or suspended in a suitable carrier especially an aqueous solvent for the active ingredient. The active ingredient is preferably present in such formulations in a concentration of 0.5 to 20 advantageously 0.5 to 10 particularly about 1.5 w w.

Formulations suitable for topical administration in the mouth include lozenges comprising the active ingredient in a flavored basis usually sucrose and acacia or tragacanth pastilles comprising the active ingredient in an inert basis such as gelatin and glycerin or sucrose and acacia and mouthwashes comprising the active ingredient in a suitable liquid carrier.

Formulations for rectal administration may be presented as a suppository with a suitable base comprising for example cocoa butter or a salicylate.

Formulations suitable for intrapulmonary or nasal administration have a particle size for example in the range of 0.1 to 500 microns including particle sizes in a range between 0.1 and 500 microns in increments microns such as 0.5 1 30 microns 35 microns etc. which is administered by rapid inhalation through the nasal passage or by inhalation through the mouth so as to reach the alveolar sacs. Suitable formulations include aqueous or oily solutions of the active ingredient. Formulations suitable for aerosol or dry powder administration may be prepared according to conventional methods and may be delivered with other therapeutic agents such as compounds heretofore used in the treatment or prophylaxis of HIV infections as described below.

Formulations suitable for vaginal administration may be presented as pessaries tampons creams gels pastes foams or spray formulations containing in addition to the active ingredient such carriers as are known in the art to be appropriate.

The formulations may be packaged in unit dose or multi dose containers for example sealed ampoules and vials and may be stored in a freeze dried lyophilized condition requiring only the addition of the sterile liquid carrier for example water for injection immediately prior to use. Extemporaneous injection solutions and suspensions are prepared from sterile powders granules and tablets of the kind previously described. Preferred unit dosage formulations are those containing a daily dose or unit daily sub dose as herein above recited or an appropriate fraction thereof of the active ingredient.

The invention further provides veterinary compositions comprising at least one active ingredient as above defined together with a veterinary carrier therefore. Veterinary carriers are materials useful for the purpose of administering the composition and may be solid liquid or gaseous materials which are otherwise inert or acceptable in the veterinary art and are compatible with the active ingredient. These veterinary compositions may be administered parenterally orally or by any other desired route.

A compound of Formula I may be combined in a pharmaceutical combination formulation or dosing regimen as combination therapy with a second compound that has anti hyperproliferative or chemotherapeutic properties that is useful for treating a disease or disorder responsive to the inhibition of a JAK kinase for example a hyperproliferative disorder e.g. cancer or that is useful in treating another disorder named herein. The second compound of the pharmaceutical combination formulation or dosing regimen preferably has complementary activities to a compound of Formula I of the combination such that they do not adversely affect each other. Such molecules are suitably present in combination in amounts that are effective for the purpose intended.

In another embodiment a compound of Formulas I may be employed alone or in combination with other therapeutic agents for the treatment of a disease or disorder described herein such as an immunologic disorder e.g. psoriasis or inflammation . In certain embodiments a compound of Formula I is combined in a pharmaceutical combination formulation or dosing regimen as combination therapy with a second therapeutic compound that has anti inflammatory or that is useful for treating an inflammation immune response disorder. The second therapeutic agent may be a NSAID or other anti inflammatory agent. In one embodiment a composition of this invention comprises a compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof in combination with a therapeutic agent such as an NSAID.

Another embodiment therefore includes a method of treating or lessening the severity of a disease or condition responsive to the inhibition of JAK2 kinase activity in a patient comprising administering to said patient a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of Formula I and further comprising administering a second chemotherapeutic agent.

The combination therapy may be administered as a simultaneous or sequential regimen. When administered sequentially the combination may be administered in two or more administrations. The combined administration includes coadministration using separate formulations or a single pharmaceutical formulation and consecutive administration in either order wherein preferably there is a time period while both or all active agents simultaneously exert their biological activities.

Suitable dosages for any of the above coadministered agents are those presently used and may be lowered due to the combined action synergy of the newly identified agent and other chemotherapeutic agents or treatments.

The combination therapy may provide synergy and prove synergistic i.e. the effect achieved when the active ingredients used together is greater than the sum of the effects that results from using the compounds separately. A synergistic effect may be attained when the active ingredients are 1 co formulated and administered or delivered simultaneously in a combined unit dosage formulation 2 delivered by alternation or in parallel as separate formulations or 3 by some other regimen. When delivered in alternation therapy a synergistic effect may be attained when the compounds are administered or delivered sequentially e.g. by different injections in separate syringes. In general during alternation therapy an effective dosage of each active ingredient is administered sequentially i.e. serially whereas in combination therapy effective dosages of two or more active ingredients are administered together.

Another embodiment includes in vivo metabolic products of an administered compound of Formula I. Such products may result for example from the oxidation reduction hydrolysis amidation deamidation esterifi cation deesterification enzymatic cleavage and the like of the administered compound.

Metabolite products typically are identified by preparing a radiolabelled e.g. C or H isotope of a compound of the invention administering it parenterally in a detectable dose e.g. greater than about 0.5 mg kg to an animal such as rat mouse guinea pig monkey or to man allowing sufficient time for metabolism to occur typically about 30 seconds to 30 hours and isolating its conversion products from the urine blood or other biological samples. These products are easily isolated since they are labeled others are isolated by the use of antibodies capable of binding epitopes surviving in the metabolite . The metabolite structures are determined in conventional fashion e.g. by MS LC MS or NMR analysis. In general analysis of metabolites is done in the same way as conventional drug metabolism studies well known to those skilled in the art. The conversion products so long as they are not otherwise found in vivo are useful in diagnostic assays for therapeutic dosing of a compound of Formula I.

Another embodiment includes a kit for treating a disease or disorder responsive to the inhibition of a JAK kinase. The kit includes 

In one embodiment the instructions include instructions for the simultaneous sequential or separate administration of said first and second pharmaceutical compositions to a patient in need thereof.

Containers for use include for example bottles vials syringes blister pack etc. The containers may be formed from a variety of materials such as glass or plastic. The container includes a compound of Formula I or formulation thereof which is effective for treating the condition and may have a sterile access port for example the container may be an intravenous solution bag or a vial having a stopper pierceable by a hypodermic injection needle . The container includes a composition comprising at least one compound of Formula I. The label or package insert indicates that the composition is used for treating the condition of choice such as cancer. In one embodiment the label or package inserts indicates that the composition comprising the compound of Formula I can be used to treat a disorder. In addition the label or package insert may indicate that the patient to be treated is one having a disorder characterized by overactive or irregular kinase activity. The label or package insert may also indicate that the composition can be used to treat other disorders.

The article of manufacture may comprise a a first container with a compound of Formula I contained therein and b a second container with a second pharmaceutical formulation contained therein wherein the second pharmaceutical formulation comprises a chemotherapeutic agent. The article of manufacture in this embodiment of the invention may further comprise a package insert indicating that the first and second compounds can be used to treat patients at risk of stroke thrombus or thrombosis disorder. Alternatively or additionally the article of manufacture may further comprise a second or third container comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer such as bacteriostatic water for injection BWFI phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles and syringes.

In an embodiment the compounds of Formula I can be used to control JAK protein kinases tyrosine kinases additional serine threonine kinases and or dual specificity kinases. Thus they are useful as pharmacological standards for use in the development of new biological tests assays and in the search for new pharmacological agents.

Compounds of Formula I may be assayed for the ability to modulate the activity of JAK protein kinases tyrosine kinases additional serine threonine kinases and or dual specificity kinases in vitro and in vivo. In vitro assays include biochemical and cell based assays that determine inhibition of the kinase activity. Alternate in vitro assays quantify the ability of the compound of Formula I to bind to kinases and may be measured either by radiolabelling the compound of Formula I prior to binding isolating the compound of Formula I kinase complex and determining the amount of radiolabel bound or by running a competition experiment where a compound of Formula I is incubated with known radiolabeled ligands. These and other useful in vitro assays are well known to those of skill in the art.

In order to illustrate the invention the following examples are included. However it is to be understood that these examples do not limit the invention and are only meant to suggest a method of practicing the invention. Persons skilled in the art will recognize that the chemical reactions described may be readily adapted to prepare other compounds of Formula I and alternative methods for preparing the compounds of Formula I are within the scope of this invention. For example the synthesis of non exemplified compounds according to the invention may be successfully performed by modifications apparent to those skilled in the art e.g. by appropriately protecting interfering groups by utilizing other suitable reagents known in the art other than those described and or by making routine modifications of reaction conditions. Alternatively other reactions disclosed herein or known in the art will be recognized as having applicability for preparing other compounds of the invention.

Compounds of Formula I may be assayed for the ability to modulate the activity of Janus protein kinases tyrosine kinases additional serine threonine kinases and or dual specificity kinases in vitro and in vivo. In vitro assays include biochemical and cell based assays that determine inhibition of the kinase activity. Alternate in vitro assays quantify the ability of the compound of Formula I to bind to kinases and may be measured either by radiolabelling the compound of Formula I prior to binding isolating the compound of Formula I kinase complex and determining the amount of radiolabel bound or by running a competition experiment where a compound of Formula I is incubated with known radiolabeled ligands. These and other useful in vitro assays are well known to those of skill in the art.

Previous studies have shown that the isolated kinase domains of human JAK1 JAK2 JAK3 or TYK2 phosphorylate peptide substrates in in vitro kinase assays Saltzman et al. 246 627 633 2004 . The catalytically active kinase domain of human JAK1 JAK2 JAK3 or TYK2 was purified from extracts of SF9 insect cells infected with a recombinant baculovirus expression vector encoding the human JAK1 JAK2 JAK3 or TYK2 kinase domains JAK1 amino acid residues N852 D1154 according to the numbering of GenBank sequence accession number P23458 JAK2 amino acid residues D812 G1132 according to the numbering of GenBank sequence accession number NP004963.1 JAK3 amino acid residues S783 S1124 according to the numbering of GenBank sequence accession number P52333 and TYK2 amino acid residues N873 C1187 according to the numbering of GenBank sequence accession number P29597 . The activity of the JAK1 JAK2 JAK3 or TYK2 kinase domains can be measured by a number of direct and indirect methods including quantification of phosphorylation of peptide substrates derived from the human JAK3 protein Saltzman et al. 246 627 633 2004 . The activity of the JAK1 JAK2 JAK3 or TYK2 kinase domains was measured in vitro by monitoring phosphorylation of JAK3 derived peptides using the Caliper LabChip technology see Examples .

The activity of the isolated JAK2 kinase domain was measured by monitoring phosphorylation of a peptide derived from JAK3 Val Ala Leu Val Asp Gly Tyr Phe Arg Leu Thr Thr fluorescently labeled on the N terminus with 5 carboxyfluorescein using the Caliper LabChip technology Caliper Life Sciences Hopkinton Mass. . To determine the inhibition constants Ki of Examples 1 438 compounds were diluted serially in DMSO and added to 50 L kinase reactions containing 0.2 nM purified JAK2 enzyme 100 mM Hepes pH7.2 0.015 Brij 35 1.5 M peptide substrate 25 M ATP 10 mM MgCl 4 mM DTT at a final DMSO concentration of 2 . Reactions were incubated at 22 C. in 384 well polypropylene microtiter plates for 30 minutes and then stopped by addition of 25 L of an EDTA containing solution 100 mM Hepes pH 7.2 0.015 Brij 35 150 mM EDTA resulting in a final EDTA concentration of 50 mM. After termination of the kinase reaction the proportion of phosphorylated product was determined as a fraction of total peptide substrate using the Caliper LabChip 3000 according to the manufacturer s specifications. Ki value 70s were then determined using the Morrison tight binding model. Morrison J. F. 185 269 296 1969 William J. W. and Morrison J. F. 63 437 467 1979 .

The activity of the isolated JAK1 or TYK2 kinase domain was measured by monitoring phosphorylation of a peptide derived from JAK3 Val Ala Leu Val Asp Gly Tyr Phe Arg Leu Thr Thr fluorescently labeled on the N terminus with 5 carboxyfluorescein using the Caliper LabChip technology Caliper Life Sciences Hopkinton Mass. . To determine the inhibition constants Ki of Examples 1 438 compounds were diluted serially in DMSO and added to 50 uL kinase reactions containing 1.5 nM JAK1 0.2 nM purified JAK2 or 1 nM purified TYK2 enzyme 100 mM Hepes pH7.2 0.015 Brij 35 1.5 uM peptide substrate 25 uM ATP 10 mM MgCl 4 mM DTT at a final DMSO concentration of 2 . Reactions were incubated at 22 C. in 384 well polypropylene microtiter plates for 30 minutes and then stopped by addition of 25 uL of an EDTA containing solution 100 mM Hepes pH 7.2 0.015 Brij 35 150 mM EDTA resulting in a final EDTA concentration of 50 mM. After termination of the kinase reaction the proportion of phosphorylated product was determined as a fraction of total peptide substrate using the Caliper LabChip 3000 according to the manufacturer s specifications. Ki values were then determined using the Morrison tight binding model. Morrison J. F. 185 269 296 1969 William J. W. and Morrison J. F. 63 437 467 1979 .

The activity of the isolated JAK3 kinase domain was measured by monitoring phosphorylation of a peptide derived from JAK3 Leu Pro Leu Asp Lys Asp Tyr Tyr Val Val Arg fluorescently labeled on the N terminus with 5 carboxyfluorescein using the Caliper LabChip technology Caliper Life Sciences Hopkinton Mass. . To determine the inhibition constants Ki of Examples 1 438 compounds were diluted serially in DMSO and added to 50 uL kinase reactions containing 5 nM purified JAK3 enzyme 100 mM Hepes pH7.2 0.015 Brij 35 1.5 uM peptide substrate 5 uM ATP 10 mM MgCl 4 mM DTT at a final DMSO concentration of 2 . Reactions were incubated at 22 C. in 384 well polypropylene microtiter plates for 30 minutes and then stopped by addition of 25 uL of an EDTA containing solution 100 mM Hepes pH 7.2 0.015 Brij 35 150 mM EDTA resulting in a final EDTA concentration of 50 mM. After termination of the kinase reaction the proportion of phosphorylated product was determined as a fraction of total peptide substrate using the Caliper LabChip 3000 according to the manufacturer s specifications. Ki values were then determined using the Morrison tight binding model. Morrison J. F. 185 269 296 1969 William J. W. and Morrison J. F. 63 437 467 1979 .

The activities of compounds I 443 were determined in cell based assays that are designed to measure Janus kinase dependent signaling. Compounds were serially diluted in DMSO and incubated with Set 2 cells German Collection of Microorganisms and Cell Cultures DSMZ Braunschweig Germany which express the JAK2V617F mutant protein in 96 well microtiter plates for 1 hr at 37 C. in RPMI medium at a final cell density of 10cells per well and a final DMSO concentration of 0.57 . Compound mediated effects on STATS phosphorylation were then measured in the lysates of incubated cells using the Meso Scale Discovery MSD technology Gaithersburg Md. according to the manufacturer s protocol and ECvalues were determined. Alternatively serially diluted compounds were added to NK92 cells American Type Culture Collection ATCC Manassas Va. in 96 well microtiter plates in RPMI medium at a final cell density of 10cells per well and a final DMSO concentration of 0.57 . Human recombinant IL 12 R D systems Minneapolis Minn. was then added at a final concentration of 10 ng ml to the microtiter plates containing the NK92 cells and compound and the plates were incubated for 1 hr at 37 C. Compound mediated effects on STAT4 phosphorylation were then measured in the lysates of incubated cells using the Meso Scale Discovery MSD technology Gaithersburg Md. according to the manufacturer s protocol and ECvalues were determined.

High Pressure Liquid Chromatography Mass Spectrometry LCMS experiments to determine retention times R and associated mass ions were performed using one of the following methods.

Method A Experiments performed on a Waters Micromass ZQ quadrupole mass spectrometer linked to a Hewlett Packard HP1100 LC system with diode array detector. This system uses a Higgins Clipeus 5 micron C18 100 3.0 mm column and a 1 ml minute flow rate. The initial solvent system was 95 water containing 0.1 formic acid solvent A and 5 acetonitrile containing 0.1 formic acid solvent B for the first minute followed by a gradient up to 5 solvent A and 95 solvent B over the next 14 minutes. The final solvent system was held constant for a further 5 minutes.

Method B Experiments performed on a Waters Platform LC quadrupole mass spectrometer linked to a Hewlett Packard HP1100 LC system with diode array detector and 100 position autosampler using a Phenomenex Luna C18 2 30 4.6 mm column and a 2 ml minute flow rate. The solvent system was 95 water containing 0.1 formic acid solvent A and 5 acetonitrile containing 0.1 formic acid solvent B for the first 0.50 minutes followed by a gradient up to 5 solvent A and 95 solvent B over the next 4 minutes. The final solvent system was held constant for a further 0.50 minutes.

Microwave experiments were carried out using a Biotage Initiator 60 or CEM Explorer . Temperature from 40 250 C. can be achieved and pressures of up to 30 bar can be reached.

In the examples described below unless otherwise indicated all temperatures are set forth in degrees Celsius. Reagents were purchased from commercial suppliers such as Aldrich Chemical Company Lancaster TCI or Maybridge and were used without further purification unless otherwise indicated.

The reactions set forth below were done generally under a positive pressure of nitrogen or argon or with a drying tube unless otherwise stated in anhydrous solvents and the reaction flasks were typically fitted with rubber septa for the introduction of substrates and reagents via syringe. Glassware was oven dried and or heat dried.

Column chromatography was conducted on a Combiflash system Manufacturer Teledyne Isco having a silica gel column. H NMR spectra were recorded on a Varian instrument operating at 400 MHz. H NMR spectra were obtained as CDCl d DMSO or dMeOH solutions reported in ppm using chloroform as the reference standard 7.25 ppm . When peak multiplicities are reported the following abbreviations are used s singlet d doublet t triplet m multiplet br broadened dd doublet of doublets dt doublet of triplets . Coupling constants when given are reported in Hertz Hz .

To an ice cooled solution of 2 amino 6 bromopyridine 25.0 g 0.144 mmol 1 equiv in dichloromethane 400 mL was added ethoxycarbonyl isothiocyanate 19.9 g 0.152 mmol 1.05 equiv dropwise. The reaction mixture was warmed to 24 C. After 21 h the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo 20 mm Hg . The residue was diluted with ethyl acetate 600 mL and the resulting organic solution was washed sequentially with water 2 200 mL and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 200 mL . The organic was dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated to afford product as a yellow solid 43.7 g .

A solution was ethyl 6 methylpyridin 2 yl carbamothioyl carbamate 43.7 g 0.144 mmol 1 equiv hydroxylamine hydrochloride 51.3 g 0.738 mmol 5.13 equiv and diisopropylethylamine 75.2 mL 0.432 mmol 3.00 equiv in 1 1 methanol ethanol 500 mL was heated to 70 C. for 3.5 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to 24 C. and the resulting solids were filtered. The solids were rinsed with cold water 2 100 mL and dried in vacuo 1 mm Hg to afford product as a white solid 24.4 g 79.5 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 7.32 7.38 m 2H 7.21 m 1H 6.23 br s 2H .

A biphasic solution of 5 bromo 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridin 2 amine 0.800 g 3.76 mmol 1.00 equiv 3 2 propyl phenyl boronic acid 0.739 g 4.51 mmol 1.20 equiv bis triphenylphosphine palladium II chloride 0.264 g 0.376 mmol 0.100 equiv in acetonitrile 6 mL and 1.0M sodium carbonate aqueous solution 6 mL was heated in the microwave to 160 C. for 2 min. The reaction mixture was partitioned between saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 10 mL and ethyl acetate 20 mL . The collected organic was dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Purification by flash column chromatography 2.5 methanol in dichoromethane afforded product as a sticky solid 567 mg 63 . H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.74 m 1H 7.68 m 1H 7.36 7.48 m 4H 6.79 dd J 7.2 1.3 Hz 1H 4.46 br s 2H 3.01 m 1H 1.31 d J 6.9 Hz 6H .

A suspension of 5 3 propan 2 yl phenyl 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridin 2 amine 88.9 mg 0.352 mmol 1.00 equiv 4 chloro 2 methylpyridine 53.9 mg 0.423 mmol 1.20 equiv 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 4 6 triisopropylbiphenyl 17.6 mg 0.0369 mmol 0.105 equiv cesium carbonate 237 mg 0.727 mmol 2.06 equiv and tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 10.0 mg 0.0109 mmol 0.0310 equiv in N N dimethylformamide 2 mL was heated in the microwave to 210 C. for 20 min. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo 1 mm Hg . The resulting residue was partitioned between saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 5 mL and ethyl acetate 5 mL . The organic was separated and the aqueous phase was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 5 mL . The collected organic was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Purification by preparative HPLC yielded a white solid 65.5 mg 54 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 10.13 s 1H 8.16 m 1H 7.95 s 1H 7.83 m 1H 7.63 7.72 m 2H 7.44 7.55 m 4H 7.25 dd J 7.1 1.3 Hz 1H 3.03 m 1H 2.37 s 3H 1.30 d J 6.9 Hz 6H .

A suspension of 5 bromo 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 c pyridin 2 amine 5.1 g 24 mmol 1 equiv 3 chlorophenylboronic acid 3.8 g 24 mmol 1.0 equiv cesium carbonate 9.4 g 29 mmol 1.2 equiv tetrakistriphenylphosphine palladium 2.7 g 2.4 mmol 0.1 equiv was heated to 150 C. for 1 h under microwave irradiation. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and filtered through Celite. The filtrate was washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution. The organic phase was dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Purification by flash column chromatography 30 ethyl acetate in petroleum ether provided product as a solid 3.5 g 61 . LCMS ESI m z 244.9.

A solution of 5 3 chlorophenyl 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridin 2 amine 1.46 g 5.97 mmol 1 equiv methyl 4 iodobenzoate 1.57 g 5.99 mmol 1.00 equiv palladium diacetate 134 mg 0.597 mmol 0.100 eq cesium carbonate 1.96 g 6.02 mmol 1.01 equiv and XantPhos 173 mg 0.299 mmol 0.050 eq in 1 4 dioxane was heated at 80 C. overnight. The mixture was concentrated and the residue was diluted with methanol and water. The resulting solid was filtered and rinsed with water isopropanol and hexanes. The crude product was used for the next step without further purification 1.85 g 80 . LCMS ESI m z 379.0.

A solution of methyl 4 5 3 chlorophenyl 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridin 2 yl aminobenzoate 0.50 g 1.3 mmol 1 equiv in 2M sodium hydroxide aqueous solution and 1 4 dioxane was stirred at about 80 90 C. After 3 h the reaction mixture was neutralized with 6N aqueous hydrochloride acid solution to pH 4 5. The resulting solid was filtered and rinsed sequentially with water isopropanol and hexanes. The resulting crude product was used for the next step without further purification 330 mg 85 purity by HPLC . LCMS ESI m z 365.0.

To a solution of 4 5 3 chlorophenyl 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridin 2 yl aminobenzoic acid 182 mg 0.499 mmol 1 equiv O 7 Azabenzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate 228 mg 0.600 mmol 1.20 equiv and diisopropylethylamine 97 mg 0.75 mmol 1.5 equiv in 1 2 dichloromethane tetrahydrofuran 5 mL was added tert butyl 4 amino 1 piperidine carboxylate 120 mg 0.60 mmol 1.2 equiv . The resulting mixture was stirred at 30 C. overnight filtered concentrated to give crude product. The crude product was dissolved in 1 1 trifluoroacetic acid tetrahydrofuran 10 ml and stirred at room temperature for 2 h. After removal of the solvent the resulting residue was purified by preparative HPLC to give the desired product 39.5 mg 17 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.98 s 1H 8.24 s 1H 7.94 7.97 m 1H 7.86 s 3H 7.61 7.75 m 6H 7.29 7.32 m 3H 3.30 3.40 m 3H 3.00 m 2H 1.89 m 2H 1.40 m 2H . LCMS ESI m z 447.0.

A solution of 5 bromo 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridin 2 amine 1.5 g 7.0 mmol 1 equiv and bis triphenylphosphine palladium II chloride 500 mg 0.7 mmol 0.1 equiv in acetonitrile 10 mL and 1M aqueous sodium carbonate solution 10 mL was heated at 120 C. for 3 min in the microwave. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and the resulting solution was washed water 2 and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution. Purification by flash column chromatography 2 10 methanol in dichloromethane provided product 1.4 g 83 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.90 d 2H 7.48 m 1H 7.39 m 1H 7.05 d 2H 6.88 dd 1H 4.25 s 2H ES MS m z 241.0.

To a solution of 5 4 methoxyphenyl 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridin 2 amine 825 mg 3.43 mmol and p toluene sulphonic acid 1.77 g 10.3 mmol in acetonitrile 40 mL was added a solution of potassium iodide 1.42 g 8.55 mmol and sodium nitrite 474 mg 6.87 mmol in water 2 mL at 24 C. After 18 h ethyl acetate was added to the reaction mixture. The resulting solution was washed with water 2 and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution. The organic was dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Purification using ISCO CombiFlash 2 5 methanol in dichloromethane afforded 2 iodo 5 4 methoxyphenyl 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridine 950 mg 71 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.90 d 2H 7.64 m 1H 7.57 t 1H 7.05 t 3H ES MS m z 351.9.

A solution of 4 4 aminophenyl 1 methylpiperazine 163 mg 0.86 mmol 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 4 6 triisopropylbiphenyl 54 mg 0.11 mmol sodium tert butoxide 103 mg 1 mmol and 2 iodo 5 4 methoxyphenyl 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridine 150 mg 0.43 mmol in dimethylformamide 4 mL was degassed by evacuation of the reaction vessel followed by Npurge 3 . To this mixture was added trisdibenzylideneacetone bispalladium 52 mg 0.06 mmol and the reaction mixture was further degassed. The reaction mixture was heated to 100 C. After 2 h acetic acid 60 mg 1 mmol was added the resulting mixture was filtered and concentrated. Purification by reverse phase HPLC provided product 60 mg 30 . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.10 d 2H 7.7 m 1H 7.6 d 2H 7.35 t 1H 7.20 m 3H 7.0 d 2H 3.9 s 3H 3.2 t 4H 2.7 t 4H 2.4 s 3H ES MS m z 415.3.

A solution of 4 bromobenzoyl chloride 4.67 g 21.3 mmol diisopropylethylamine 3.78 mL 46.8 mmol and N O dimethylhydroxylamine 2.18 g 22.3 mmol in ethyl acetate 100 mL was heated to 45 C. After 1 h the reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate 100 mL . The resulting solution was washed sequentially with water and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution. The collected organic was dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Purification by flash column chromatography hexanes ethyl acetate in hexanes provided producted as a tan solid 4.12 g 79 . LCMS ESI m z 244.

Made by following the procedure described for the preparation of 5 3 propan 2 yl phenyl N 2 methylpyridin 4 yl 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridin 2 amine in Example 1 but substituting 4 bromo N methoxy N methylbenzamide and 5 4 methoxyphenyl 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 c pyridin 2 amine. LCMS ESI m z 404.

To a solution lithium aluminum hydride 20 mmol 1M in tetrahydrofuran at 78 C. was added a solution of N methoxy 4 5 4 methoxyphenyl 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridin 2 ylamino N methylbenzamide 215 mg 0.53 mmol in tetrahydrofuran 4.5 mL over 25 min. After 1 h excess lithium aluminum hydride was quenched by the addition of water and ethyl acetate was added. The resulting mixture was washed sequentially with 1M hydrochloric acid and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution. The organic was dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Purification by flash column chromatography hexanes ethyl acetate in hexanes afforded aldehyde was as a yellow solid 56 mg 30 LCMS ESI m z 345 and alcohol as a white solid 10.8 mg 9 LCMS ESI m z 347.

A solution of 4 5 4 methoxyphenyl 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridin 2 ylamino benzaldehyde 47 mg 0.14 mmol and 2 methoxyethylamine 65 L 0.70 mmol and 4 molecular sieves in tetrahydrofuran 5 mL was stirred at 24 C. After 18 h sodium cyanoborohydride 100 mg 2 mmol was added to the reaction mixture. After 1 h the reaction mixture was partitioned between ethyl acetate 20 mL and water 10 mL . The organic was separated and washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 10 mL . The collected organic was dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Purification by preparative HPLC provided a tan solid 18.6 mg 34 . LCMS ESI m z 404. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.51 s 1H 8.05 d J 8.8 2 H 7.62 m 3H 7.52 d J 8.7 1H 7.20 d J 8.4 2H 7.16 7.10 m 3H 3.87 s 3H 3.62 s 2H 3.39 t J 5.7 2H 3.23 s 3H 3.17 d J 5.2 2H 2.63 t J 5.7 2H .

A suspension of 5 bromo 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridin 2 amine 69.2 mg 0.325 mmol 1 equiv 4 methoxypiperidine 150 mg 1.3 mmol 4.0 equiv cesium carbonate 212 mg 0.652 mmol 2.00 equiv XPhos 16.9 mg 0.0354 mmol 0.109 equiv and tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 9.3 mg 0.010 mmol 0.031 equiv in N N dimethylformamide 2 mL was heated to 180 C. in the microwave for 15 min. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was partitioned between ethyl acetate 5 mL and saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution 5 mL . The aqueous was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 5 mL . The combine organic was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Purification by flash column chromotagraphy 95 5 dichloromethane methanol afforded a white solid 557 mg 67 . LCMS ESI m z 248.3. NMR 500 MHz CDCl 7.32 m 1H 7.05 m 1H 6.23 m 1H 4.39 br s 2H 3.66 m 2H 3.48 m 1H 3.41 s 3H 3.18 m 2H 2.08 m 2H 1.89 m 2H .

Made by following the procedure described for the preparation of 5 3 propan 2 yl phenyl N 2 methylpyridin 4 yl 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridin g amine in Example 1 but substituting 5 4 methoxypiperidin 1 yl 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridin 2 amine. LCMS ESI m z 339.3. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 10.01 s 1H 8.19 8.22 m 2H 7.67 s 1H 7.53 m 1H 7.39 m 1H 7.18 d J 8.7 Hz 1H 6.48 d J 7.8 Hz 1H 3.74 m 2H 3.49 m 2H 3.32 s 3H 3.19 m 1H 2.41 s 3H 2.08 m 2H 1.73 m 2H .

To a solution of 5 3 propan 2 yl phenyl 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridin 2 amine 23.6 mg 0.0935 mmol 1 equiv in pyridine was added methyl chloroformate 36.1 uL 0.468 mmol 5.00 equiv at 24 C. After 3 h the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was partitioned between saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 5 mL and ethyl acetate 5 mL . The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 5 mL . The combined organic extracts were dried over magnesium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Purification by preparative HPLC provided a white solid 17.7 mg 61 . LCMS ESI m z 311.2. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 10.45 s 1H 7.88 m 1H 7.81 m 1H 7.65 7.72 m 2H 7.48 t J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.42 m 1H 7.28 dd J 7.0 1.6 Hz 1H 3.67 s 3H 3.00 m 1H 1.28 d J 6.9 Hz 6H .

Examples 7 230 shown in Table 1 were prepared generally following the above described Examples. For each compound shown in Table 1 the Example number followed is given in the Method column.

A solution of 4 4 bromobenzyl morpholine 2.0 g 7.8 mmol bis pinacolato diboron 2.4 g 9.4 mmol potassium acetate 1.1 g 12 mmol and 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocenepalladium II chloride 660 mg 0.1 mmol in DMF was heated at 80 C. overnight. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and diluted with ethyl acetate 100 mL . The resulting solution was washed with saturated aqueous sodium chloride 3 50 mL . The collected organic fraction was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford the desired product which was used without further purification 2 g 84 yield .

A solution of 4 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl benzyl morpholine 1.9 g 6.3 mmol 5 bromo 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridine 2 amine 1 g 5 mmol 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocenepalladium II chloride 250 mg 0.63 mmol and cesium carbonate 4.1 g 12.6 mmol in 10 1 dimethoxyethane water 11 mL was heated at 140 C. under microwave radiation for 1 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate 200 mL and the resulting suspension was filtered through celite. The filtrate was concentrated and the resulting residue was purified by flash column chromatography petroleum ether ethyl acetate to provide product 1 g 69 yield . LCMS ESI m z 310.

A suspension of 5 4 morpholinomethyl phenyl 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridin 2 amine 0.50 g 1.6 mmol 1 bromo 4 chlorobenzene 340 mg 1.8 mmol tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 147 mg 0.16 mmol cesium carbonate 782 mg 2.4 mmol and 4 5 bis diphenylphosphino 9 9 dimethylxanthene 94 mg 0.16 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 50 mL was heated to reflux for 2 days. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate 300 mL and the resulting suspension was filtered though celite. Concentration of the filtrate in vacuo provided crude product which was purified by flash column chromatography petroleum ether ethyl acetate to give product 300 mg 44 yield . LCMS ESI m z 421.

A suspension of N 4 chlorophenyl 5 4 morpholinomethyl phenyl 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridin 2 amine 300 mg 0.7 mmol 1 methylpiperazine 356 mg 3.6 mmol tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 65 mg 0.07 mmol cesium carbonate 456 mg 1.4 mmol and 4 5 bis diphenylphosphino 9 9 dimethylxanthene 410 mg 0.07 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 2 mL was irradiated by microwave heating to 160 C. for 20 min. The reaction mixture was diluted with EtOAc 300 mL and filtered though celite. The filtrate was concentrated to give a black residue which was purified by preparative thin layer chromatography 10 methanol in dichloromethane to afford product 38.9 mg 11 yield . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 7.96 d J 8 Hz 2H 7.52 7.42 m 6H 6.92 6.87 m 3H 6.68 m 1H 3.79 3.72 m 4H 3.59 s 2H 3.18 3.12 m 4H 2.6 2.55 m 4H 2.55 2.48 m 4H 2.33 s 3H . LCMS ESI m z 484.1.

Made by following the procedure described for the preparation of 5 3 propan 2 yl phenyl 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridine 2 amine and making non critical variations.

Made by following the procedure described for the preparation of methyl 4 5 3 chlorophenyl 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridin 2 yl aminobenzoate and making non critical variations.

To a solution of 4 5 3 methylsulfonyl phenyl 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridin 2 ylamino benzaldehyde 150 mg 0.38 mmol in dichloromethane 50 mL was added dimethylamine 1 M in THF 3.6 g 28 mmol . The resulting mixture was stirred at 24 C. for 1 h. Sodium triacetoxyborohydride was then added to the reaction mixture. After 16 h the mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution. The collected organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Purification by preparative thin layer chromatography afforded the desired product 61 mg 37 yield . LCMS ESI m z 421.9.

To a solution of 4 5 3 methylsulfonyl phenyl 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridin 2 ylamino benzaldehyde 450 mg 1.15 mmol in tetrahydrofuran was added sodium borohydride 22 mg 0.57 mmol at 24 C. After 3 hr the reaction mixture filtered through Celite. The solvent was removed in vacuo to provided the crude product which was purified by preparative thin layer chromatography to afford the desired product 300 mg 67 yield . LCMS ESI m z 395.1.

To the solution of 4 5 3 methylsulfonyl phenyl 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridin 2 ylamino phenyl methanol 200 mg 0.51 mmol in dimethyl sulfoxide 2 mL was sequentially added potassium hydroxide 28 mg 0.51 mmol and iodomethane. After 3 hr the reaction mixture was partitioned between water and dichloromethane. The collected organic layer was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Purification by preparative thin layer chromatography afforded the desired product 45 mg 12 . LCMS ESI m z 409.0.

Made by following the procedure described for the preparation of 5 3 propan 2 yl phenyl 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridine 2 amine and making non critical variations.

Made by following the procedure described for the preparation of 5 N 4 chlorophenyl 5 4 morpholinomethyl phenyl 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridin 2 amine and making non critical variations.

A solution of 3 2 4 bromophenylamino 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridin 5 yl N tert butylbenzenesulfonamide 150 mg 0.3 mmol and copper I iodide 57 mg 0.3 mmol in 2 pyrrolidin 1 yl ethanol 2 mL was heated at 140 C. under a nitrogen atmosphere. After 18 hr the reaction mixture was cooled to 20 C. and diluted with ethyl acetate 100 mL . The solution was washed with water. The collected organic was dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Purification by preparative thin layer chromatography afforded the desired product 58.5 mg 36 yield . LCMS ESI m z 535.3. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.44 s 1H 8.64 s 1H 8.21 8.19 d J 8 Hz 1H 8.10 7.99 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.78 m 1H 7.66 7.57 m 5H 7.24 7.22 d J 8 Hz 1H 6.90 6.88 d J 8 Hz 2H 4.15 4.10 m 2H 3.20 3.10 m 3H 2.89 3.05 m 3H 1.83 1.79 m 4H 1.11 s 9H .

Made by following the procedure described for the preparation of 5 N 4 chlorophenyl 5 4 morpholinomethyl phenyl 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridin 2 amine and making non critical variations.

A solution of N 6 fluoropyridin 3 yl 5 3 methylsulfonyl phenyl 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridin 2 amine 250 mg 0.65 mmol in 1 methylpiperazine 500 mg 5 mmol was heated at 140 C. After 16 h the reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate 100 mL . The resulting solution was washed with water and the collected organic was concentrated. Purification by preparative thin layer chromatography afforded the desired product 101 mg . LCMS ESI m z 464.2. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 8.69 s 1H 8.30 s 1H 8.16 8.14 d J 8 Hz 1H 8.03 8.01 d J 8 Hz 1H 7.81 7.67 m 2H 7.50 7.45 m 2H 6.97 s 1H 6.68 6.64 m 2H 3.42 3.34 m 4H 3.10 s 3H 2.48 2.45 m 4H 2.47 s 3H .

To a solution of N Acetylglycine 406 mg 3.47 mmol 5.00 equiv in pyridine 10 mL was added triphenylphosphine 910 mg 3.47 mmol 5.00 equiv at 0 C. After 5 min carbon tetrabromide 1.15 g 3.47 mmol 5.0 equiv was added and the resulting yellow solution was maintained at 0 C. for 1.5 h. 5 3 Methylsulfonyl phenyl 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridin 2 amine 0.200 g 0.693 mmol 1 equiv was then added to the reaction mixture at 0 C. After 5 min the reaction mixture was warmed to 24 C. and stirred overnight. Saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution 20 mL chloroform and methanol were sequentially added to the reaction mixture. The solution was concentrated and the resulting residue was purified by flash column chromatography 10 methanol 1 ammonium hydroxide in dichloromethane to afford product as white solid 220 mg 78 yield . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.65 s 1H 8.29 dd J 7.9 1.1 Hz 1H 8.08 dd J 7.9 1.0 Hz 1H 7.85 7.70 m 2H 7.66 dd J 8.9 1.2 Hz 1H 7.36 dd J 7.2 1.2 Hz 1H 4.17 s 2H 3.22 s 3H 2.04 s 3H .

A solution of 2 acetamido N 5 3 methylsulfonyl phenyl 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridin 2 yl acetamide 46 mg 0.12 mmol 1 equiv and Lawesson s reagent 190 mg 0.48 mmol 4.0 equiv was heated under reflux for 6 hr. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the resulting residue was diluted with water and ethyl acetate. The product was collected by filtration and purified by preparative HPLC to afford product 20 mg 40 yield . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 10.41 s 1H 8.71 t J 1.6 Hz 1H 8.35 s 1H 8.11 s 1H 7.90 d J 7.9 Hz 1H 7.71 d J 7.2 Hz 1H 7.60 m 1H 7.37 dd J 7.2 1.3 Hz 1H 7.28 s 1H 3.33 s 3H 2.52 s 3H .

To an ice cooled solution of triphenylphosphine 101 mg 0.387 mmol 5.00 equiv in pyridine 0.5 ml was added iodine 0.980 g 0.387 mmol 5.00 equiv . After 30 min a solution of 2 methyl N 5 3 methylsulfonyl phenyl 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridin 2 yl thiazol 5 amine 0.030 g 0.08 mmol 1 equiv in pyridine 0.5 mL was added to the reaction mixture. The reaction mixture was maintained at 0 C. for 1 h before warming to 24 C. After 2 h the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo. The resulting residue was partitioned between saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and ethyl acetate. The organic was collected dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Purification by flash column chromatography 10 methanol 1 ammonium hydroxide in dichloromethane yielded a yellow oil 6.0 mg 20 yield . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.76 m 1H 8.30 dd J 14.9 7.9 Hz 1H 8.11 t J 10.1 Hz 1H 7.84 m 2H 7.70 m 1H 7.63 7.45 m 2H 7.29 dd J 21.1 7.3 Hz 1H 3.21 s 3H 2.39 s 3H .

To a solution of 4 nitro 1H pyrazole 0.40 mg 3.5 mmol 1 equiv 4 hydroxy tetrahydropyran 0.36 g 3.6 mmol 1.0 equiv and triphenylphosphine 1.1 g 4.2 mmol 1.3 equiv in tetrahydrofuran 10 mL at 20 C. was added dibenzylazodicarboxylate 1.1 g 4.6 mmol 1.3 equiv in tetrahydrofuran 2 mL over 5 min. After 3 hr the reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the resulting residue was purified by flash column chromatography 40 ethyl acetate in hexanes to afford product as white solid 568 mg 81 yield . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.64 s 1H 8.13 s 1H 4.49 s 1H 4.15 3.94 m 2H 3.72 3.45 m 2H 2.24 1.95 m 4H .

A solution of 4 nitro 1 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl 1H pyrazole 568 mg 2.88 mmol 1 equiv in methanol was circulated through a H Cube Continuous flow hydrogenation reactor ThalesNano fitted with a palladium on carbon catalyst cartridge at 50 C. The collected solution was concentrated in vacuo to afford product which was used without further purification 458 mg 95 yield . LCMS ESI m z 168.0.

Made by following the procedure described for the preparation of 2 iodo 5 4 methoxyphenyl 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridine and making non critical variations.

A suspension of 1 tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl 1H pyrazol 4 amine 50.0 mg 0.299 mmol 1.2 equiv 2 iodo 5 3 methylsulfonyl phenyl 1 2 4 triazolo 1 5 a pyridine 0.100 g 0.249 mmol 1 equiv tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 17.0 mg 0.019 mmol 0.075 equiv 4 5 bis diphenylphosphino 9 9 dimethylxanthene 21.6 mg 0.037 mmol 0.150 equiv and sodium tert butoxide in dioxane 2 mL was heated at 160 C. for 15 min under microwave radiation. The reaction mixture was partitioned between half saturated aqueous sodium chloride solution and ethyl acetate. The aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 . The combined organic extracts were dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate filtered and concentrated. Purification by preparative HPLC provided product 11.5 mg 11 yield . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO d 9.28 s 1H 8.79 s 1H 8.35 d J 7.9 Hz 1H 8.13 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.87 dd J 16.6 8.8 Hz 2H 7.66 dd J 8.7 7.3 Hz 1H 7.55 m 1H 7.40 m 1H 7.21 m 1H 4.31 m 1H 3.95 d J 11.1 Hz 2H 3.52 3.39 m 2H 2.07 s 3H 1.89 m 4H .

Examples 239 438 shown in Table 2 were prepared generally following the above described Examples. For each compound shown in Table 2 the Example number followed is given in the Method column.

Although the invention has been described and illustrated with a certain degree of particularity it is understood that the present disclosure has been made only by way of example and that numerous changes in the combination and arrangement of parts can be resorted to by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the claims.

