---

title: Interacting with radial menus for touchscreens
abstract: The subject technology discloses configurations for providing a radial menu on one or more computing devices with a touch-sensitive screen. In one example, a user activates the radial menu after touching a first finger at a first or anchor point on a touchscreen that serves as a center of the radial menu. While the first finger is disposed, the user then touches a second finger at a second point some distance from the anchor point corresponding to the first finger on the touchscreen. The radial menu is generated based on a distance calculated between the anchor point and the second finger at the second point. The radial menu is not a complete circle and instead displayed as a partial circle, and the radial menu is generated so that the display area is bisected from the anchor point to the second point in some configurations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09261989&OS=09261989&RS=09261989
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09261989
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120913
---
The subject technology generally relates to graphical user interfaces involving a radial menu. The radial menu may be a circular menu configured to include a set of menu items corresponding to commands functions or options that are activated upon selection within the radial menu.

The subject technology provides for detecting an anchor point and a second point corresponding to a radial menu based on touch input on a touch sensitive screen in which the radial menu includes a display area including one or more menu options receiving a subsequent touch input on the touch sensitive screen corresponding to the radial menu in which the subsequent touch input includes a gesture including an initial position corresponding to the detected second point and a third point corresponding to an end position of the gesture determining if the third point corresponds to a sub menu provided by the radial menu and providing for display the sub menu based on a distance between the second point and the anchor point plus an additional distance in which the sub menu includes a second display area including one or more additional menu options.

The subject technology further provides for receiving a first touch input on a touch sensitive screen for selecting a menu option provided in a radial menu in which the radial menu includes a display area including one or more menu options determining whether automatic activation of the selected menu option is provided and activating the selected menu option in response to automatic activation being provided.

Yet another aspect of the subject technology provides a system. The system includes memory one or more processors and one or more modules stored in memory and configured for execution by the one or more processors. The system includes a radial menu module configured to detect an anchor point and a second point corresponding to a radial menu based on touch input on a touch sensitive screen in which the radial menu comprises a display area including one or more menu options. The system further includes a touch input module configured to receive a subsequent touch input on the touch sensitive screen corresponding to the radial menu in which the subsequent touch input comprises a gesture including an initial position corresponding to the detected second point and a third point corresponding to an end position of the gesture and determine if the third point corresponds to a sub menu provided by the radial menu. Additionally the system includes a graphical user interface GUI display module configured to provide for display the sub menu based on a distance between the second point and the anchor point plus an additional distance in which the sub menu includes a second display area including one or more additional menu options.

The subject technology further provides for detecting an anchor point and a second point corresponding to a radial menu based on touch input on a touch sensitive screen in which the radial menu includes a display area including one or more menu options receiving a subsequent touch input on the touch sensitive screen corresponding to the radial menu in which the subsequent touch input includes a gesture including an initial position corresponding to the detected second point and a third point corresponding to an end position of the gesture determining if the third point corresponds to a sub menu provided by the radial menu providing for display the sub menu based on a distance between the second point and the anchor point plus an additional distance in which the sub menu includes a second display area including one or more additional menu options receiving additional touch input to select a menu option within the sub menu in which the additional touch input includes a fourth point corresponding to an end position of the additional touch input detecting a release of the fourth point to activate the selected menu option within the sub menu and activating the selected menu option in response to the detected release of the fourth point.

It is understood that other configurations of the subject technology will become readily apparent from the following detailed description where various configurations of the subject technology are shown and described by way of illustration. As will be realized the subject technology is capable of other and different configurations and its several details are capable of modification in various other respects all without departing from the scope of the subject technology. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

The detailed description set forth below is intended as a description of various configurations of the subject technology and is not intended to represent the only configurations in which the subject technology may be practiced. The appended drawings are incorporated herein and constitute a part of the detailed description. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing a thorough understanding of the subject technology. However the subject technology is not limited to the specific details set forth herein and may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances structures and components are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the concepts of the subject technology.

In some configurations a radial menu is a circular menu configured to include a set of menu items corresponding to commands functions or options that are activated upon selection within the radial menu. For instance a radial menu is graphically depicted as a circle shape with respective segments dividing the circle shape. Each segment of the circle shape may be associated with a command function or option for the radial menu. Computing devices with touch sensitive screens are prevalent such as mobile phones tablet devices etc. However implementing a radial menu that is user friendly on a computing device with a touch sensitive screen touchscreen is problematic. A typical radial menu includes an entire circle shape where segments may be obscured by a user s hand. Accessing portions of the radial menu may be difficult due to the positioning of the user s hand the left or right handedness of the user and other physical constraints. Further the radial menu may not support interactions with the menu that accounts for different finger movements.

In view of the aforementioned issues the subject technology provides configurations of a radial menu for a touchscreen on a computing device.

As illustrated in the example of configurations of a radial menu for a touchscreen are shown in different stages and . The radial menu shown in the GUI may be a contextual menu provided by an operating system and configured to accept touch input from a user to activate and enable interactions with the radial menu.

As shown in the stage a user activates the radial menu after touching a first finger e.g. a thumb at a first or anchor point on a touchscreen that serves as a center of the radial menu e.g. serving as an initial anchor point . While still having the first finger disposed on the touchscreen the user then touches a second finger at a second point some distance from the anchor point corresponding to the first finger on the touchscreen. The radial menu in the GUI is generated based on a distance calculated between the anchor point first finger and the second finger at the second point . This distance represents a radius of a circle shape that defines portions of the radial menu in the GUI . In this regard the radial menu may be generated to a predetermined size to fill an area on the touchscreen according to the distance between the anchor point and the second point e.g. the radius . Notably as shown in the example GUI the radial menu is not a complete circle and instead displayed as a partial circle. In one example the partial circle is generated to cover a display area equivalent to a portion of a circumference defined by the radius. Moreover the radial menu is generated so that the display area is bisected from the anchor point first finger to the second point second finger as shown in the example of the GUI in .

As further shown in the stage an area of the radial menu may occupy a portion of the touchscreen so that one or more pie segments and extend a distance equivalent to a predetermined portion of the radius from the second point e.g. position of the second finger such as 20 of the radius as an example. Other percentages of the radius may be utilized and still be within the scope of the subject technology. This allows the user to be able to access portions of the radial menu without difficulty due to overextending or stretching the user s finger. Thus the radial menu includes one or more pie segments or sectors that aggregately form a partial circle e.g. a disk or region of a circle which graphically represents the radial menu.

As an example a circular sector or circle sector sector is the portion of a disk enclosed by two radii and a circular arc. Each sector in the partial circle corresponds to respective menu items corresponding to menu options commands functions etc. that may be in the form of text icons graphical elements pictures any mix of the aforementioned etc. which are selectable via touch input. Further a portion of the radial menu starting from the anchor point first finger may be occupied by an empty inner concentric circle that represents a portion of the radial menu completely absent of menu items options. Other ways to display the radial menu in the GUI can be provided and still be within the scope of the subject technology.

The above mentioned radial menu is configured to receive touch input based on movement of the second finger and or the first finger already disposed on the touchscreen of the computing device. For instance while keeping the first finger disposed in the center of the radial menu the user may rotate the his her hand while swiping with the second finger according to path and or path in order to select a respective menu option in the segments or provided in the radial menu. Similarly the user may select segment by moving the second finger within the segment . Upon selection the radial menu may highlight or perform another graphical indication the selected menu option in order to indicate selection of the menu option. Subsequently in some configurations the user may lift or release the second finger from the touchscreen in order to activate the selected menu option.

In the stage the user has moved the second finger from the second point from the stage to a third point as shown. In some instances the radial menu is configured to provide an additional sub menu. In one example the user may swipe or move the second finger to a portion of the radial menu that indicates that a sub menu is available. The radial menu may provide a graphical indication of the availability of the sub menu such as displaying an additional graphical element e.g. a wedge shape or other shape . The user may then swipe the second finger outside of the additional graphical element to the third point to activate the sub menu. Upon activation the radial menu provides the sub menu for display as shown in the stage .

In the stage the sub menu in some configurations is a portion of a concentric circle that extends beyond the radius of the initial radial menu that includes segments and . It is noted that the sub menu does not have the same display area as the initial radial menu and covers a display area that is smaller in comparison to the initial radial menu. Within the sub menu one or more additional menu options may be provided. As shown the example sub menu includes segments and corresponding to respective menu options. The user may then select a menu option within the sub menu in a similar manner described above for the radial menu. For instance the user may move the second finger to a fourth point as shown in the stage in order to select a corresponding menu option in the segment . The sub menu may highlight the selected segment to indicate that this menu option is currently selected. In one example the user may lift or release the second finger from the fourth point in order to activate the selected segment . Similarly the user may move the second finger along a path or path in order to select one of the segments or and then lift or release the second finger to activate the selected segment. Additionally to exit the sub menu the user may swipe the second finger back within the initial radial menu corresponding to the segments and .

In some configurations as the user is moving the aforementioned second finger along one or more paths within the radial menu or the sub menu the GUI may provide for display a graphical indication such as a glowing arc to indicate the path of the second finger on the touchscreen. As the second finger further moves along a corresponding path the GUI may provide another graphical indication such as a dot or set of dots being displayed when a different menu option is newly selected by the second finger along with corresponding text for the newly selected menu option that appears alongside the dot s . Other types of graphical indications may be provided and still be within the scope of the subject technology.

For the examples described in the GUI of the user may exit the radial menu by lifting releasing the first finger e.g. thumb from the anchor point or by lifting both fingers substantially at the same time. Alternatively if the user lifts the first finger the radial menu may not be exited thus allowing the user to still interact with the radial menu utilizing the second finger. Some configurations allow the user to exit the menu by moving both fingers entirely off the radial menu.

Although the example shown in the GUI illustrates the radial menu in a particular arrangement other types of arrangements for displaying the radial menu could be provided and still be within the scope of the subject technology. By way of example the radial menu may be provided for display via a text representation or a pictogram e.g. one or more symbols . Further a representation of the radial menu may be displayed after a brief delay so that a user can quickly select or activate a menu option without looking at the radial menu e.g. without requiring the radial menu to be displayed . Additionally although the GUI includes certain graphical elements it should be understood that the GUI is not required to include all graphical elements shown in . Moreover the GUI could include more graphical elements than shown in the example of .

The process begins at by receiving a first touch input on a touch sensitive screen e.g. touchscreen in which the first touch input corresponds with an anchor point on the touch sensitive screen. The anchor point in some instance will be utilized as a center for the radial menu.

The process at determines whether a second touch input at a second point on the touch sensitive screen is received. The process ends if no second touch input is received. If the second touch input is received at the second point on the touch sensitive screen then the process continues to .

The process at determines a distance between the second point and the anchor point on the touch sensitive screen. In some configurations the distance between the second point and the anchor point defines a radius of a circle utilized for generating the display area of the radial menu.

The process at generates a radial menu based on the distance between the second point and the anchor point. In some configurations the radial menu includes a display area including one or more menu options. The display area includes respective graphical segments corresponding to the one or more menu options in one example. Further the display area of the radial menu includes a circular sector of the circle utilized for generating the display area. As an example the circular sector comprises a portion of the circle based on a predetermined arc and the radius of the circle and the arc is an angle defined by a vertex based on the anchor point. The display area of the radial menu in one example may be bisected from a line from the anchor point to the second point.

The process at provides for display the radial menu. For instance the radial menu may be displayed as illustrated in the example GUI of . The process then ends.

As illustrated in the example of the GUI includes a radial menu with a sub menu including multiple menu options. Different interactions may be provided by the GUI depending on the type of user input received. For instance one or more menu options within the sub menu may be automatically activated without requiring the user to lift the second finger. For instance an example application may allow an automatic setting of the operating system s desktop background by having the user swipe through graphical thumbnails of respective wallpapers provided in menu options of the sub menu. Similarly another example application may include an application switcher that automatically switches to open applications as the user swipes through corresponding menu options of open applications within the sub menu. Automatic activation of selected menu options may also be applied for menu options provided in the initial radial menu in a similar manner. Other types of interactions may be provided and still be within the scope of the subject technology.

As illustrated in the example of configurations of a radial menu for a touchscreen on a computing device are shown in different stages and for interacting with a sub menu included in the radial menu. The radial menu and sub menu shown in the GUI may be a contextual menu that is provided by an operating system and configured to accept touch input from a user to activate and enable interactions with the radial menu and or sub menu. Further the GUI may be provided for display in the manner described in . In particular the radial menu in the GUI is generated based on a distance calculated between an anchor point first finger and the second finger at a second point shown in .

As shown in the stage an area of the radial menu may occupy a portion of the touchscreen including one or more pie segments and . Thus the radial menu includes one or more pie segments or sectors that aggregately form a partial circle e.g. a disk or region of a circle which graphically represents the radial menu similar to the GUI described in . Further a portion of the radial menu starting from the anchor point first finger may be occupied by an empty inner concentric circle that represents a portion of the radial menu completely absent of menu items options. Other ways to display the radial menu in the GUI can be provided and still be within the scope of the subject technology.

As further shown in the stage the sub menu in some configurations is a portion of a concentric circle that extends beyond the radius of the initial radial menu corresponding to segments and . As mentioned before the sub menu does not have the same display area as the initial radial menu and covers a display area that is smaller in comparison to the initial radial menu in one example. Within the sub menu one or more additional menu options may be provided. As shown the example sub menu includes segments and corresponding to respective menu options. In the example of each of the segments corresponds to a respective graphical image e.g. thumbnail image which may be utilized for different purposes upon being selected including automatically setting a user s desktop picture or automatically providing the respective graphical image for display as part of a slideshow presentation etc. The user may select a particular graphical image within the sub menu by move the second finger along a path or path in order to select one of the segments and without lifting or releasing the second finger to activate the selected segment.

In the stage of the example of the user has moved the second finger to a third point in order to select the graphical image corresponding to the segment . Upon selection the graphical image is automatically provided for display in image e.g. slideshow or user s desktop without requiring the user to lift the second finger in order to activate the selected segment . In this manner the example GUI in is able to provide automatic activation of a selected segment corresponding to a menu option graphical image etc. provided in the sub menu of the radial menu.

Although the example in describes an application for automatically providing selected graphical images corresponding to a selected segment within the sub menu other types of applications or utilizations may be provided and still be within the scope of the subject technology. As mentioned before the sub menu may include one or more segments respectively corresponding to one or more currently executing applications. In this regard the user may then select one of the segments in the sub menu to switch to one of the currently executing applications e.g. task application switching .

The process begins at by detecting an anchor point and a second point corresponding to a radial menu based on touch input on a touch sensitive screen. The anchor point may correspond with a position of a first finger and the second point may correspond with a position of a second finger e.g. as illustrated in or . In one example the radial menu includes a display area including one or more menu options. In some configurations the display area of the radial menu includes a portion of a circle defined by a radius based on the distance from the anchor point and the second point.

The process at determines whether a subsequent touch input is received on the touch sensitive screen corresponding to the radial menu. The subsequent touch input may be a gesture including an initial position corresponding to the detected second point and a third point corresponding to an end position of the gesture. If no subsequent touch input is received the process then ends. Alternatively upon determining that subsequent touch input is received the process continues to . Referring to the stage shown in in some configurations the radial menu may indicate that a particular sub menu is available e.g. via displaying a graphical element such as a wedge for a menu option provided in the radial menu. In this regard the user may activate the sub menu by moving the second finger to a position outside of the radial menu.

The process at determines if the third point corresponds to a sub menu provided by the radial menu. In one example the third point corresponds with a position outside of the radial menu e.g. as shown in the stage of . The third point may be within a predetermined distance from a graphical element that indicates an availability of the sub menu e.g. a wedge shape .

The process at provides for display the sub menu based on a distance between the second point and the anchor point plus an additional distance. In one example the sub menu includes a display area including one or more additional menu options. The display area of the sub menu includes a portion of a concentric circle that extends from a portion of the radial menu defined by a partial circumference based the radius in some configurations. As an example the display area of the sub menu includes an arc defined by a vertex based on the anchor point. Other ways to display the sub menu may be provided and still be within the scope of the subject technology. The process then ends.

As described before a radial menu corresponds to an anchor point first finger and a second point second finger on a touch sensitive screen. The distance between the second point and the anchor point defines a radius of a circle utilized for generating the display area of the radial menu. Further the radial menu may provide a sub menu including additional menu options for selection. In order to select a menu option provided in either the radial menu or the sub menu touch input may be received from a second finger that includes a gesture from an initial position corresponding to a point within the radial menu or sub menu to a different point corresponding to an end position of the gesture within the radial menu or sub menu.

The process at receives a touch input on a touch sensitive screen for selecting a menu option provided in a radial menu or sub menu provided in the radial menu . The received touch input may correspond with input received from a second finger while a first finger is disposed on the touch sensitive screen at the anchor point. In some configurations the received touch input may correspond with a user moving a second finger along a path to select a respective menu option provided in a radial menu e.g. as illustrated in the stage in . Alternatively the received touch input may correspond with the user moving the second finger along a path to select a respective menu option provided in a sub menu of the radial menu e.g. as illustrated in the stage of or . In this regard the received touch input from the second finger includes a point indicating an end position of the touch input that corresponds to the selected menu option.

The process at determines whether automatic activation of the selected menu option is provided. If so the process continues to to activate the selected menu option. The selected menu option may be activated for example by automatically executing a command function and or a set of operations launching or switching to an application corresponding to the selected menu option etc. In this manner the selected menu option is automatically activated without requiring the user to lift or release the second finger to initiate the activation.

Alternatively if the process determines that automatic activation is not provided or absent for the selected menu option the process continues to to select the selected menu option. In one example the process may provide a graphical indication that the menu option is selected such as highlighting the menu option or another similar graphical indication etc.

The process then continues to to detect whether the aforementioned second finger is released. As described above the second finger may provide touch input e.g. a gesture including the end position of the touch input at a particular point corresponding to the selected menu option. If the second finger is detected as being released the process continues to to activate the selected menu option. Alternatively if the second finger is not detected as being released at the process then ends.

As described before a radial menu corresponds to an anchor point first finger and a second point second finger on a touch sensitive screen. Further the radial menu may provide a sub menu including additional menu options for selection. Configurations of the radial menu may provide different ways for exiting the radial menu as illustrated in the examples of . Exiting the radial menu may be understood as performing one or more operations for closing the radial menu so that the radial menu is not provided for display. In this manner a user may stop utilizing the radial menu or cancel an action within the radial menu. The following description assumes that the radial menu is already provided for display with a first finger and second finger currently disposed at respective points on the touch sensitive screen.

In some configurations the radial menu may be exited by releasing the first finger as shown in the example process of . The process begins at by detecting a release of a first finger. In some configurations a position of the first finger corresponds to an anchor point of the radial menu. At the radial menu is exited in response to the first finger being released. The process then ends.

Alternatively the radial menu may be exited by releasing the first and second fingers as shown in the example process in . The process begins at by detecting a release of a first finger. In some configurations a position of the first finger corresponds to an anchor point of the radial menu. In this example the radial menu does not immediately exit upon a release of the first finger. Thus the user may still interact with the radial menu by utilizing a second finger to move within the radial menu or within a sub menu of the radial menu. The process at then determines if a release of a second finger corresponding to a point on the touch sensitive screen is detected. If so the process continues to to exit the radial menu. The process then ends.

Other ways to exit the radial menu may be provided and still be within the scope of the subject technology. In one example the user may move the respective positions of the first and second fingers entirely off the display area of the radial menu in order to exit the radial menu. For instance the user may perform a gesture e.g. swiping that moves the first and second fingers completely away from the radial menu. Upon detecting that neither the first nor second fingers are within the display area of the radial menu the radial menu is then exited.

The system can include memory one or more processors and one or more modules stored in memory and configured for execution by the one or more processors. As shown in the system includes several modules for providing different functionality. The system is configured to include a touch input module a radial menu module and a graphical user interface GUI display module .

The touch input module is configured to receive a first touch input on a touch sensitive screen in which the first touch input corresponds with an anchor point on the touch sensitive screen receive a second touch input at a second point on the touch sensitive screen and determine a distance between the second point and the anchor point on the touch sensitive screen. The distance between the second point and the anchor point defines a radius of a circle utilized for generating the display area of the radial menu.

The radial menu module is configured to generate a radial menu based on the distance between the second point and the anchor point in which the radial menu includes a display area including one or more menu options. The display area includes respective graphical segments corresponding to the one or more menu options. The respective graphical segments extend a distance equivalent to a predetermined portion of the radius from the second point. The predetermined portion of the radius from the second point comprises twenty percent of the radius. In some configurations the display area of the radial menu includes a circular sector of the circle utilized for generating the display area. In this regard the circular sector includes a portion of the circle based on a predetermined arc and the radius of the circle and the arc includes an angle defined by a vertex based on the anchor point. Further the radial menu include an empty inner concentric circle that represents a portion of the radial menu completely absent of menu options. The aforementioned one or more menu options include at least one of text icons graphical elements or pictures etc.

The GUI display module is configured to provide for display the radial menu. The radial menu is displayed as a partial circle in some configurations. In this regard the partial circle is displayed to cover a display area equivalent to a portion of a circumference defined by a radius based on the distance between the second point and the anchor point.

Additionally the radial menu module is configured to detect an anchor point and a second point corresponding to a radial menu based on touch input on a touch sensitive screen. The touch input module is further configured to receive a subsequent touch input on the touch sensitive screen corresponding to the radial menu in which the subsequent touch input comprises a gesture including an initial position corresponding to the detected second point and a third point corresponding to an end position of the gesture and determine if the third point corresponds to a sub menu provided by the radial menu. The GUI display module is configured to provide for display the sub menu based on a distance between the second point and the anchor point plus an additional distance in which the sub menu comprises a second display area including one or more additional menu options. In some configurations the second display area of the sub menu comprises a portion of a concentric circle that extends from a portion of the radial menu defined by a partial circumference based the radius. Additionally the second display area of the sub menu comprises an arc defined by a vertex based on the anchor point.

The touch input module is further configured to receive additional touch input to select a menu option within the sub menu wherein the additional touch input comprises a fourth point corresponding to an end position of the additional touch input. The radial menu module is further configured to detect a release of the fourth point to activate the selected menu option within the sub menu and activate the selected menu option in response to the detected release of the fourth point.

Further the radial menu module is further configured to detect a release of both the first and second points to exit the radial menu. Alternatively the radial menu module is further configured to detect a release of the first point to exit the sub menu.

As further shown in each of the aforementioned modules can be configured to communicate between each other. For instance different data messages API calls and returns can be passed between the different modules in the system .

Many of the above described features and applications are implemented as software processes that are specified as a set of instructions recorded on a machine readable storage medium also referred to as computer readable medium . When these instructions are executed by one or more processing unit s e.g. one or more processors cores of processors or other processing units they cause the processing unit s to perform the actions indicated in the instructions. Examples of machine readable media include but are not limited to CD ROMs flash drives RAM chips hard drives EPROMs etc. The machine readable media does not include carrier waves and electronic signals passing wirelessly or over wired connections.

In this specification the term software is meant to include firmware residing in read only memory and or applications stored in magnetic storage which can be read into memory for processing by a processor. Also in some implementations multiple software components can be implemented as sub parts of a larger program while remaining distinct software components. In some implementations multiple software subject components can also be implemented as separate programs. Finally a combination of separate programs that together implement a software component s described here is within the scope of the subject technology. In some implementations the software programs when installed to operate on one or more systems define one or more specific machine implementations that execute and perform the operations of the software programs.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in a form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in some form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine object or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

Some configurations are implemented as software processes that include one or more application programming interfaces APIs in an environment with calling program code interacting with other program code being called through the one or more interfaces. Various function calls messages or other types of invocations which can include various kinds of parameters can be transferred via the APIs between the calling program and the code being called. In addition an API can provide the calling program code the ability to use data types or classes defined in the API and implemented in the called program code.

One or more APIs may be used in some configurations. An API is an interface implemented by a program code component or hardware component API implementing component that allows a different program code component or hardware component API calling component to access and use one or more functions methods procedures data structures classes and or other services provided by the API implementing component. An API can define one or more parameters that are passed between the API calling component and the API implementing component.

The following description describes an example system in which aspects of the subject technology can be implemented.

The bus collectively represents all system peripheral and chipset buses that communicatively connect the numerous internal devices of the system . For instance the bus communicatively connects the processing unit s with the read only memory the system memory and the storage device .

From these various memory units the processing unit s retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of the subject technology. The processing unit s can be a single processor or a multi core processor in different implementations.

The read only memory ROM stores static data and instructions that are needed by the processing unit s and other modules of the system . The storage device on the other hand is a read and write memory device. This device is a non volatile memory unit that stores instructions and data even when the system is off. Some implementations of the subject technology use a mass storage device such as a magnetic or optical disk and its corresponding disk drive as the storage device .

Other implementations use a removable storage device such as a flash drive a floppy disk and its corresponding disk drive as the storage device . Like the storage device the system memory is a read and write memory device. However unlike storage device the system memory is a volatile read and write memory such a random access memory. The system memory stores some of the instructions and data that the processor needs at runtime. In some implementations the subject technology s processes are stored in the system memory the storage device and or the read only memory . For example the various memory units include instructions for processing multimedia items in accordance with some implementations. From these various memory units the processing unit s retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of some implementations.

The bus also connects to the optional input and output interfaces and . The optional input interface enables the user to communicate information and select commands to the system. The optional input interface can interface with alphanumeric keyboards and pointing devices also called cursor control devices . The optional output interface can provide display images generated by the system . The optional output interface can interface with printers and display devices such as cathode ray tubes CRT or liquid crystal displays LCD . Some implementations can interface with devices such as a touchscreen that functions as both input and output devices.

Finally as shown in bus also couples system to a network interface through a network adapter not shown . In this manner the computer can be a part of a network of computers such as a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or an Intranet or an interconnected network of networks such as the Internet. The components of system can be used in conjunction with the subject technology.

These functions described above can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry in computer software firmware or hardware. The techniques can be implemented using one or more computer program products. Programmable processors and computers can be included in or packaged as mobile devices. The processes and logic flows can be performed by one or more programmable processors and by one or more programmable logic circuitry. General and special purpose computing devices and storage devices can be interconnected through communication networks.

Some implementations include electronic components such as microprocessors storage and memory that store computer program instructions in a machine readable or computer readable medium alternatively referred to as computer readable storage media machine readable media or machine readable storage media . Some examples of such computer readable media include RAM ROM read only compact discs CD ROM recordable compact discs CD R rewritable compact discs CD RW read only digital versatile discs e.g. DVD ROM dual layer DVD ROM a variety of recordable rewritable DVDs e.g. DVD RAM DVD RW DVD RW etc. flash memory e.g. SD cards mini SD cards micro SD cards etc. magnetic and or solid state hard drives read only and recordable Blu Ray discs ultra density optical discs optical or magnetic media and floppy disks. The computer readable media can store a computer program that is executable by at least one processing unit and includes sets of instructions for performing various operations. Examples of computer programs or computer code include machine code such as is produced by a compiler and files including higher level code that are executed by a computer an electronic component or a microprocessor using an interpreter.

While the above discussion primarily refers to microprocessor or multi core processors that execute software some implementations are performed by one or more integrated circuits such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs . In some implementations such integrated circuits execute instructions that are stored on the circuit itself.

As used in this specification and the claims of this application the terms computer server processor and memory all refer to electronic or other technological devices. These terms exclude people or groups of people. For the purposes of the specification the terms display or displaying means displaying on an electronic device. As used in this specification and the claims of this application the terms computer readable medium and computer readable media are entirely restricted to tangible physical objects that store information in a form that is readable by a computer. These terms exclude wireless signals wired download signals and other ephemeral signals.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be a form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in a form including acoustic speech or tactile input. In addition a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user for example by sending web pages to a web browser on a user s client device in response to requests received from the web browser.

Configurations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or a combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by a form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN an inter network e.g. the Internet and peer to peer networks e.g. ad hoc peer to peer networks .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In some configurations a server transmits data e.g. an HTML page to a client device e.g. for purposes of displaying data to and receiving user input from a user interacting with the client device . Data generated at the client device e.g. a result of the user interaction can be received from the client device at the server.

It is understood that a specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is an illustration of example approaches. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes can be rearranged or that all illustrated steps be performed. Some of the steps can be performed simultaneously. For example in certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing can be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the configurations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all configurations and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

The previous description is provided to enable a person skilled in the art to practice the various aspects described herein. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein can be applied to other aspects. Thus the claims are not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein but is to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language claims wherein reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless specifically so stated but rather one or more. Unless specifically stated otherwise the term some refers to one or more. Pronouns in the masculine e.g. his include the feminine and neuter gender e.g. her and its and vice versa. Headings and subheadings if any are used for convenience only and do not limit the subject technology.

A phrase such as an aspect does not imply that such aspect is essential to the subject technology or that such aspect applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to an aspect can apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. A phrase such as an aspect can refer to one or more aspects and vice versa. A phrase such as a configuration does not imply that such configuration is essential to the subject technology or that such configuration applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to a configuration can apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. A phrase such as a configuration can refer to one or more configurations and vice versa.

The word example is used herein to mean serving as an example or illustration. An aspect or design described herein as example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs.

All structural and functional equivalents to the elements of the various aspects described throughout this disclosure that are known or later come to be known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be encompassed by the claims.

