---

title: Lifestyle application for consumers
abstract: A user device receives consumer information from a consumer, where the consumer information includes preference information, demographic information, identity information, relationship information, and location information associated with the consumer. The user device provides the consumer information to a lifestyle application platform, and receives, from the lifestyle application platform, a consumer profile for the consumer based on the consumer information. The user device receives, from the lifestyle application platform, notifications, reports, and offers, associated with an enterprise and relevant to the consumer, based on the consumer profile, and provides the notifications, reports, and offers for display to the consumer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08983858&OS=08983858&RS=08983858
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08983858
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121221
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 based on U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 581 916 filed Dec. 30 2011 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Consumers today utilize a variety of devices such as desktop computers smart phones tablet computers etc. to access online services e.g. email applications Internet services television services etc. purchase products services and or content online and or perform other online tasks. Information associated with the consumers e.g. personal information credit card numbers etc. may be shared with enterprises e.g. businesses government agencies etc. that provide such products services and or content so that the consumers can access and interact with the enterprises in an efficient manner. However many consumers do not permit such information to be shared with enterprises even when the enterprises may provide valuable products services and or content to the consumers. One reason that consumers do not share their information is the fear that the information may be used for improper purposes such as credit card theft identity theft and fraud purposes etc.

Enterprises are constantly trying to find out as much about consumers as possible so that such companies can market appropriate products services and or content to the consumers. However most enterprises know very little about the consumers of their products services and or content. Until consumers permit their information to be readily shared with the enterprises neither consumers nor the enterprises will benefit from the information.

Consumer concern about privacy e.g. tracking unexplained observation and aggregation of data etc. is high and may adversely impact many enterprises. A baseline of clear protections for consumers provides greater certainty for both consumers and enterprises. As envisioned consumer rights may include individual control transparency respect for context security access and accuracy focused collection of data and accountability. Consumers may have the right to exercise control over what personal data enterprises collect from the consumers and how the enterprises use the personal data. Consumers may also have the right to expect that the personal data will be collected used and disclosed in ways that are consistent with a context in which the consumers provide the personal data.

Context aware computing is the concept of leveraging context information about a consumer e.g. utilizing a variety of devices to improve a quality of an interaction with an enterprise. Context aware computing may include a method by which new experiences are constructed that blend information from mobile social digital and physical world sources.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

Systems and or methods described herein may provide a lifestyle application platform e.g. a contextual information services platform that links identity mobile social location payment and commerce services to anticipate a consumer s needs and to proactively recommend appropriate and customized products services and or content to the consumer. The lifestyle application platform may enable the enterprises to deliver the right products services and or content to consumers may improve average revenue per unit ARPU for the enterprises and may lower costs of consumer acquisition and retention. Consumers via the lifestyle application platform may obtain more control over their personal information may receive less unsolicited spam and may be provided with simple and safe access e.g. via a single authentication identification ID to their favorite brands of products services and or content.

The lifestyle application platform may integrate several services such as for example identity services mobile wallet services marketing and analytics services emerging strategic services etc. The lifestyle application platform may provide to consumers a lifestyle application app sometimes referred to as Starfish that helps the consumers to locate and interact with their favorite brands wherever and whenever the consumers desire. The lifestyle application may link with online and physical experiences of the consumers. The lifestyle application may enable consumers to retain privacy preferences and control over their information to receive relevant offers to pay on the go for products services and or content and to be rewarded for their interactions with and loyalty to particular brands. Through the lifestyle application platform the enterprises may grow retain and improve loyalty of their consumers whether the consumers are on line mobile or walking past a store.

As further shown in the user device may be associated with a consumer and may receive consumer information from the consumer. The consumer information may include brand preferences e.g. for products services and or content demographic information e.g. gender race age etc. identity information e.g. anonymous identity pseudonymous identity legal identity etc. relationship information e.g. relationships with other consumers etc. associated with the consumer. The user device may add information to the consumer information such as location information e.g. an Internet protocol IP address global position system GPS coordinates etc. and or capability information e.g. a make model etc. associated with the user device. The user device may provide the consumer information to the lifestyle application platform.

The lifestyle application platform may receive the consumer information and may create a consumer profile and a single authentication ID for the consumer based on the consumer information. The single authentication ID may include a password a thumbprint a voice command a retinal scan etc. associated with the consumer.

The enterprise device may be associated with an enterprise e.g. a business an organization a government agency etc. and may provide enterprise information to the lifestyle application platform. The enterprise information may include offers for products services and or content provided by the enterprise information associated with consumer interactions with the enterprise e.g. consumer profiles consumer information gathered by the first enterprise etc. information associated with consumer transactions with the enterprise information associated with consumer preference packages e.g. wish lists for products services and or content provided by the enterprise etc.

The lifestyle application platform may receive the consumer information and the enterprise information. The lifestyle application platform may analyze the consumer information and the enterprise information and may generate from the enterprise information notifications reports offers etc. for products services and or content e.g. provided by the enterprise relevant to the consumer based on the analysis. The lifestyle application platform may provide the notifications reports offers etc. e.g. relevant enterprise information to the user device which may display the notifications reports offers etc. to the consumer.

The lifestyle application platform may generate from the consumer information consumer information e.g. consumer profile data relevant to the enterprise based on the analysis. The lifestyle application platform may provide the relevant consumer information to the enterprise device which may display the relevant consumer information to a user associated with the enterprise.

Although not shown in the consumer e.g. via the user device may retrieve a lifestyle application app from the lifestyle application platform and may install the lifestyle application on the user device. The lifestyle application may enable the user device to provide the consumer information to the lifestyle application platform and to receive the consumer profile the single authentication ID and or the relevant enterprise information from the lifestyle application platform. As further shown in the lifestyle application may display information associated with the consumer profile the single authentication ID and or the relevant enterprise information on the user device. For example the lifestyle application may display a main page that includes information associated with the consumer s schedule e.g. My Day favorite enterprises options to explore the relevant enterprise information etc.

If the consumer selects a coffee shop e.g. the bean from the favorites section displayed by the lifestyle application the consumer may quickly and easily perform a transaction e.g. buy coffee with the coffee shop via the lifestyle application. The lifestyle application e.g. via the user device may provide a transaction request e.g. to buy coffee to the lifestyle application platform and the lifestyle application platform may provide the transaction request to the enterprise device. The enterprise device may perform the transaction e.g. may sell a cup of coffee to the consumer based on the transaction request and may provide an indication of the transaction performance to the lifestyle application platform. The lifestyle application platform may update the consumer profile based on the transaction e.g. may increase a preference level for the coffee shop and may provide the indication and or the updated consumer profile to the user device. The lifestyle application may display the indication and or the updated consumer profile to the consumer.

As used herein the terms consumer and user may be used interchangeably. Also the terms consumer and user are intended to be broadly interpreted to include a user device or a user of a user device. The term enterprise as used herein is intended to be broadly interpreted to include a business an organization a government agency an enterprise device a user of an enterprise device etc.

A product as the term is used herein is to be broadly interpreted to include anything that may be marketed or sold as a commodity or a good. For example a product may include bread coffee bottled water milk soft drinks pet food beer fuel meat fruit automobiles clothing etc.

A service as the term is used herein is to be broadly interpreted to include any act or variety of work done for others e.g. for compensation . For example a service may include a repair service e.g. for a product a warranty e.g. for a product telecommunication services e.g. telephone services Internet services network services radio services television services video services etc. an automobile service e.g. for selling automobiles a food service e.g. a restaurant a banking service a lodging service e.g. a hotel etc.

The term content as used herein is to be broadly interpreted to include video audio images software downloads and or combinations of video audio images and software downloads.

The term component as used herein is to be broadly construed to include hardware e.g. a processor a microprocessor an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a chip a memory device e.g. a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM etc. etc. or a combination of hardware and software e.g. a processor microprocessor ASIC etc. executing software contained in a memory device .

User device may include for example a radiotelephone a personal communications system PCS terminal that may combine for example a cellular radiotelephone with data processing and data communications capabilities a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA that may include for example one or more of a radiotelephone a pager Internet intranet access etc. a laptop computer a tablet computer a desktop computer a workstation computer or other types of computation and communication devices. In one example user device may include a device that is capable of communicating with enterprise device and or lifestyle application platform via network .

Enterprise device may include one or more server devices or other types of computation and communication devices that gather process search and or provide information in a manner described herein. In one example implementation enterprise device may provide information associated with products services and or content provided by an enterprise. For example if the enterprise is a bank enterprise device may provide online banking services that enable consumers to perform transactions e.g. deposits withdrawals etc. with the bank may provide electronic bank statements to consumers may provide offers for services e.g. loans mortgages etc. to consumers etc.

Lifestyle application platform may include one or more server devices or other types of computation and communication devices that gather process search and or provide information in a manner described herein. In one example implementation lifestyle application platform may link identity mobile social location payment commerce etc. services to anticipate consumers needs and to proactively recommend appropriate and customized products services and or content to the consumers.

Network may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a telephone network such as the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN an intranet the Internet an optical fiber or fiber optic based network or a combination of networks. In one example implementation network may include a network that connects user device enterprise device and lifestyle application platform .

Although shows example devices networks of environment in other implementations environment may include fewer devices networks different devices networks differently arranged devices networks or additional devices networks than depicted in . Alternatively or additionally one or more devices networks of environment may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other devices networks of environment .

Bus may permit communication among the components of device . Processing unit may include one or more processors and or microprocessors that interpret and execute instructions. In other implementations processing unit may be implemented as or include one or more ASICs FPGAs or the like.

Memory may include a RAM or another type of dynamic storage device that stores information and instructions for execution by processing unit a ROM or another type of static storage device that stores static information and instructions for the processing unit and or some other type of magnetic or optical recording medium and a corresponding drive for storing information and or instructions.

Input device may include a device that permits an operator to input information to device such as a keyboard a keypad a mouse a pen a microphone a touch screen display one or more biometric mechanisms or the like. Output device may include a device that outputs information to the operator such as a display a speaker etc.

Communication interface may include any transceiver like mechanism that enables device to communicate with other devices and or systems. For example communication interface may include mechanisms for communicating with other devices such as other devices of environment .

As described herein device may perform certain operations in response to processing unit executing software instructions contained in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a non transitory memory device. A memory device may include memory space within a single physical memory device or spread across multiple physical memory devices. The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device via communication interface . The software instructions contained in memory may cause processing unit to perform processes described herein. Alternatively or additionally hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Although shows example components of device in other implementations device may include fewer components different components differently arranged components or additional components than depicted in . Alternatively or additionally one or more components of device may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of device .

A consumer may utilize user device to connect to lifestyle application platform and to download a lifestyle application from lifestyle application platform . The lifestyle application may be installed on user device and may enable user device to access and or utilize the functionality provided by lifestyle application platform . For example the lifestyle application may enable the consumer via user device to create maintain and or update a consumer profile that is stored by lifestyle application platform . The consumer profile may be automatically updated by lifestyle application platform based on the consumer s interactions with enterprise devices via lifestyle application platform . The consumer profile may enable lifestyle application platform to intelligently link information provided by the consumer and enterprises so that lifestyle application platform may anticipate the consumer s needs and proactively recommend appropriate and customized products services and or content to the consumer.

As further shown in the consumer may provide consumer information to user device . Consumer information may include brand preferences e.g. for products services and or content demographic information e.g. gender race age etc. identity information e.g. anonymous identity pseudonymous identity legal identity etc. relationship information e.g. relationships with other consumers etc. associated with the consumer. User device may add information to consumer information such as location information e.g. an IP address GPS coordinates etc. and or capability information e.g. a make model etc. associated with user device .

Alternatively or additionally user device may supplement information provided in consumer information . For example user device may supplement the relationship information by including information associated with contacts of an address book stored on user device consumer social network information call logs information messaging information etc. in the relationship. User device may supplement the identity information by including consumer purchase history information stored on user device browsing history stored on user device social network IDs of the consumer stored on user device consumer user names and or passwords content downloaded to user device etc. in the identity information.

The anonymous identity information may include information that may not identify the consumer. For example the anonymous identity information may include a credit score associated with the consumer a purchase history of the consumer geo location information associated with user device a browsing history of the consumer a propensity score associated with the consumer an influence score associated with the consumer etc. The pseudonymous identity information may include information that partially identifies the consumer. For example the pseudonymous identity information may include personal data identified by the consumer e.g. age home address etc. consumer profile information e.g. created by lifestyle application platform consumer preferences for particular products services and or content consumer purchase intentions e.g. a price range for a product a specific type of product etc. social network IDs associated with the consumer personas associated with the consumer etc. The legal identity information may include information that completely identifies the consumer. For example the legal identity information may include a full name of the consumer contact information of the consumer an IP address of user device a driver s license number of the consumer a social security number of the consumer etc. The legal identity information may or may not include other sensitive information of the consumer such as credit card numbers medical information account numbers secret questions passwords personal identification numbers PINs etc. associated with the consumer. The consumer may have control over the information provided in customer information and may opt in or opt out of the relationship with lifestyle application platform at any time.

In one example implementation lifestyle application platform may enable the consumer to select a different type of identity information e.g. anonymous pseudonymous or legal to share with enterprises on an enterprise by enterprise basis a transaction by transaction basis each time user device utilizes lifestyle application platform etc. Further details of selecting different types of identity information are provided below in connection with for example . As further shown in user device may provide consumer information to lifestyle application platform .

Lifestyle application platform may receive consumer information and may create a consumer profile and a single authentication ID for the consumer based on consumer information . The single authentication ID may include a password a thumbprint a voice command a retinal scan etc. associated with the consumer. Lifestyle application platform may enable user device e.g. via the lifestyle application to access view and or modify the consumer profile. The consumer may access the consumer profile and or the functionality of lifestyle application platform by providing e.g. via user device the single authentication ID to lifestyle application platform .

In one example lifestyle application platform may utilize the consumer s name email address telephone number home address etc. e.g. provided in consumer information to create the consumer profile. Lifestyle application platform may associate a unique identifier e.g. an alphabetical identifier a numeric identifier an alphanumeric identifier etc. with the consumer profile. Lifestyle application platform may then populate the consumer profile with the brand preferences enterprise preferences relationship information etc. provided by consumer information . Lifestyle application platform may credit an appropriate amount of money to an electronic wallet associated with the consumer profile and may award appropriate brand loyalty points e.g. points that enable the consumer to receive benefits from enterprises to the consumer profile.

Enterprise device may be associated with an enterprise and may provide enterprise information to lifestyle application platform . Enterprise information may include offers for products services and or content provided by the enterprise information associated with consumer interactions with the enterprise e.g. consumer profiles consumer information gathered by the enterprise etc. information associated with consumer transactions with the enterprise information associated with consumer wish lists for products services and or content provided by the enterprise etc.

Lifestyle application platform may receive enterprise information and may analyze consumer information and enterprise information . In one example implementation lifestyle application platform may compare consumer information and enterprise information and may determine whether any portion of consumer information matches any portion of enterprise information . For example if consumer information indicates that the consumer is interested in a particular product offered by the enterprise lifestyle application platform may determine that information associated with the particular product should be provided to the consumer. Alternatively or additionally lifestyle application platform may associate consumer information with enterprise information by comparing consumer information with enterprise information . Lifestyle application platform may determine an appropriate product service and or content to provide to the consumer based on the association of consumer information with enterprise information .

Based on the analysis lifestyle application platform may generate from enterprise information enterprise information e.g. notifications reports offers etc. for products services and or content provided by the enterprise relevant to the consumer. Lifestyle application platform may provide the relevant enterprise information to user device and user device may display the relevant enterprise information to the consumer.

Based on the analysis lifestyle application platform may generate from consumer information consumer information e.g. consumer profile data relevant to the enterprise. Lifestyle application platform may provide the relevant consumer information to enterprise device and enterprise device may display the relevant consumer information to a user associated with the enterprise. Alternatively or additionally enterprise device may share the relevant consumer information with other enterprise devices and or may receive relevant consumer information from the other enterprise devices .

Although shows example components of environment portion in other implementations environment portion may include fewer components different components differently arranged components or additional components than depicted in . Additionally or alternatively one or more components of environment portion may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of environment portion .

Consumer portal component may provide consumers e.g. via user devices with access to lifestyle application platform . In one example consumer portal component may provide a consumer interface e.g. a consumer dashboard that may be accessible via the lifestyle application provided on a user device a web browser etc. The consumer interface may trigger events when the consumer interacts with various technologies available to user device e.g. near field communication NFC GPS etc. may support a customized dashboard for the consumer and may permit the consumer to contact another consumer e.g. in a social group directly through lifestyle application platform via short message service SMS via a phone call etc. In one example the consumer interface may include a consumer profile control panel and a consumer relationship control panel that provide full functionality of lifestyle application platform to consumers that have been authenticated.

Consumer portal component may provide identity related functions such as consumer registration consumer identity proofing credential issuance to the consumer authentication of the consumer etc. Consumer portal component may interface with a variety of access technologies such as NFC SMS unstructured supplementary service data USSD web portal mobile application active radio frequency identification RFID geo location digital signs quick response QR codes interactive voice response IVR etc. Consumer portal component may support open application programming interfaces APIs and may support trusted service manager TSM capabilities for over the air OTA download and management of subscriber identity module SIM applications on mobile devices. Consumer portal component may capture the consumer s geo location via various technologies such as GPS WiFi IP address cellular tower femtocell A GPS etc.

Consumer portal component may provide consumer login and authentication functionality. For example consumer portal component may not require login authentication for all consumer activities within lifestyle application platform . If an activity requires a consumer to login to perform the activity consumer portal component may present an authentication challenge to the consumer. When a consumer successfully completes the authentication challenge consumer portal component may return the consumer to the activity that prompted the need for login. Consumer portal component may support a strong two factor authentication as a default for a consumer to access restricted activities. Consumer portal component may support a web single sign on SSO authentication for accessing enterprise devices .

Consumer services component may provide consumer services offered by lifestyle application platform . For example consumer services component may provide profile management services relationship management services identity tracking services offer services loyalty services payment services web SSO services etc. The profile management services may enable a consumer to create review and or edit a profile associated with the consumer. The relationship management services may enable a consumer to set preferences for and manage preferred brands of the consumer offers for products services and or content provided by enterprises loyalty programs provided by enterprises and consumer digital payment services. The identity tracking services may enable a consumer to receive alerts regarding potential identity theft and to receive reports on how their identity has been used. The offer services may enable a consumer to manage offers e.g. coupons referrals etc. for products services and or content provided by enterprises. The loyalty services may enable a consumer to manage loyalty programs provided by enterprises. The payment services may enable a consumer to manage digital payment services offered to the consumer. The web SSO services may enable the consumer to manage consumer access to enterprise devices .

Enterprise portal component may provide enterprises e.g. via enterprise devices with access to lifestyle application platform . In one example enterprise portal component may provide an enterprise interface e.g. an enterprise dashboard that may be accessible by enterprise device via a secure web browser or some other mechanism. Enterprise portal component may support role based access for various enterprise user roles such as an enterprise security administrator an enterprise marketing administrator an enterprise approving authority an enterprise coordinator an enterprise help desk etc. At initial login enterprise portal component may present an enterprise user with an authentication challenge. Upon successfully completing the authentication challenge the enterprise user may have access to the enterprise interface. Enterprise portal component may a support strong two factor authentication as a default for an enterprise user to access the enterprise interface.

Enterprise services component may provide enterprise services offered by lifestyle application platform . For example enterprise services component may provide enterprise payment services data exchange and processing services profile procurement services enterprise database maintenance services coupon management services referral management services loyalty program management services preference based targeting tools transaction based consumer value forecasting fraud prevention etc. The enterprise payment services may enable an enterprise to manage payments to or from partner enterprises. The data exchange and processing services may enable an enterprise to schedule and manage data processing activities. The profile procurement services may enable an enterprise to procure consumer profile information from partner enterprises. The enterprise database maintenance services may enable an enterprise to manage and update internal database attributes. The coupon management services may enable an enterprise to create manage delete etc. one or more coupons for consumers. The referral management services may enable an enterprise to manage referral partnerships with partner enterprises. The loyalty program management services may enable an enterprise to manage loyalty programs provided to consumers. The preference based targeting tools may enable an enterprise to manage consumer targeting services. The transaction based consumer value forecasting may enable an enterprise to specify market analytics report parameters and request market analytics reports. Fraud prevention may enable an enterprise to set security preferences for enterprise partners.

Analytics component may enable lifestyle application platform to analyze data mine model segment cluster etc. data e.g. consumer information and or enterprise information . Analytics component may create calculations algorithms etc. used by data integration component . Analytics component may utilize the analytically produced data to provide reports interfaces etc. used by consumer portal component and or enterprise portal component .

Data management component may receive and store data for lifestyle application platform . The data may include internal data e.g. consumer information and or enterprise information and external data. The external data may be provided by third parties to lifestyle application platform and may include marketing reports consumer information sales reports for products services and or content etc. In one example data management component may store the data in a data warehouse or some other type of data structure.

Data integration component may manage integration of data stored by lifestyle application platform in data sources component . In one example data integration component may manage the integration of data across data sources databases data warehouses etc. by applying rules and or processes to ensure that the data is processed correctly. Data integration component may integrate the data by converting the data to metadata enriching the data transforming the data aggregating the data performing ETL extracting transforming and loading on the data cleansing the data validating the data harmonizing the data etc.

Data sources component may store data received by lifestyle application platform . In one example data sources component may store internal data and external data. The internal data may include consumer profiles consumer transactions information universal identity services UIS information usage information associated with the lifestyle application information associated with web usage by user devices information associated with usage of user devices etc. The external data may include enterprise profile information consumer loyalty profiles third party source data etc.

Application system integration component may provide functionality to lifestyle application platform and may control capabilities of lifestyle application platform . Application system integration component may provide web services and tools that leverage functionality and data stored in systems outside of lifestyle application platform . In one example application system integration component may provide a rules oriented infrastructure of policies and business rules that govern how enterprises interact with each other. Application system integration component may create update and manage enterprise information enterprise profiles enterprise accounts etc. Application system integration component may create update and manage programs such as coupon services referral services loyalty program services digital payment services etc.

Although shows example functional components of lifestyle application platform in other implementations lifestyle application platform may include fewer functional components different functional components differently arranged functional components or additional functional components than depicted in . Additionally or alternatively one or more functional components of lifestyle application platform may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other functional components of lifestyle application platform .

Profile control panel component may support creation of consumer profiles via consumer manual entry of profile data e.g. with user device enterprise devices bulk loading of multiple consumer profiles lifestyle application platform bulk loading of multiple consumer profiles etc. Profile control panel component may enable a consumer to review and or edit profile data and may enforce rules for which profile data fields are required and optional. Profile control panel component may enable a consumer to confirm and submit profile data and may return error messages to the consumer when fields are inappropriately populated or incomplete. Profile control panel component may send consumer profile data to UIS so that the UIS may create or append a UIS profile for enrollment and credentialing.

In one example profile control panel component may provide a privacy management service to a consumer. The privacy management service may support a privacy setting matrix with respect to data defined by data usage data type whether a consumer has the option to opt in opt out etc. The privacy matrix may define a data framework to which business rules may be applied. The privacy management service may include default privacy settings as defined by lifestyle application platform and may not permit a consumer to set privacy settings until after the consumer profile is created. The privacy management service may enable a consumer to prohibit use of qualifying data types. The data usage activities may include utilizing consumer profile data for telemarketing marketing emails marketing postal mail online advertising wireless location services geographic and relevant mobile advertising business and marketing reports etc. The data types may include anonymous aggregate pseudonymous personally identifiable sensitive etc. data types.

The privacy management service may enable a consumer to select a method e.g. email text message intra system communications etc. by which lifestyle communication platform communicates information to consumer. The privacy management service may enable a consumer to save privacy settings as a privacy template and or to make a single selection from multiple pre defined privacy templates.

Relationship control panel component may enable a consumer to create edit and manage relationships with enterprises and or other consumers. Relationship control panel component may enable a consumer to control and set preferences for program management services offer services loyalty services digital payment services etc. provided by lifestyle application platform . Lifestyle application platform may prioritize marketing channel settings in the relationship control panel component over global privacy settings in profile control panel component if a change to the settings has been confirmed. Relationship control panel component may enable a consumer to order a product a service and or content and may tie together a stream of operations in a way that appears as one seamless transaction to the consumer such as placing an order redeeming an applicable offer making a payment receiving a loyalty program reward credit etc.

In one example relationship control panel component may support program management services. The program management services may enable a consumer to view and set preference or like settings associated with enterprises product service brands product service types data usage contact frequency access method e.g. anonymous access web SSO etc. program management preference packages etc. Lifestyle application platform may import consumer transactional data from enterprises and other third party data sources to pre populate the program management preference settings not provided by the consumer. The program management service may enable a consumer to specify how the consumer s preferences are populated within lifestyle application platform e.g. via manual entry import from a third party source based on transactional behavior within lifestyle application platform etc. .

The program management service may enable a consumer to associate other consumers into a social group and may enable the consumer to define their relationship categories for the other consumers in the social group e.g. as acquaintances friends family members colleagues a spouse etc. . The program management service may import or retrieve relationship categories from sources outside lifestyle application platform such as from a user device operating system third party applications third party social media etc. The program management service may enable a consumer to define sharing rights for a relationship category and may store preference settings for the other consumers in the social group. The program management service may provide the preference settings for the other consumers in the social group to enterprises and may provide the preference settings for other consumers in the social group to another consumer. The program management service may enable a consumer to exchange preferences within the social group remotely via physical interaction etc.

Although shows example functional components of consumer portal component in other implementations consumer portal component may include fewer functional components different functional components differently arranged functional components or additional functional components than depicted in . Additionally or alternatively one or more functional components of consumer portal component may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other functional components of consumer portal component .

Profile management component may enable lifestyle application platform to provide consumer profile management services to consumers. Profile management component may enable consumers to create consumer profiles via consumer manual entry of profile data e.g. with user device enterprise devices bulk loading of multiple consumer profiles lifestyle application platform bulk loading of multiple consumer profiles etc. Profile management component may enable a consumer to review and or edit profile data and may enforce rules for which profile data fields are required and optional. Profile management component may enable a consumer to confirm and submit profile data and may return error messages to the consumer when fields are inappropriately populated or incomplete. Profile management component may send consumer profile data to a UIS so that the UIS may create or append a UIS profile for enrollment and credentialing.

Relationship management component may enable a consumer to create edit and manage relationships with enterprises and or other consumers. Relationship management component may enable a consumer to control and set preferences for program management services offer services loyalty services digital payment services etc. provided by lifestyle application platform . Relationship management component may provide program management services described above. For example the program management services may enable a consumer to view and set preference settings associated with enterprises product service brands product service types data usage contact frequency access method e.g. anonymous access Web SSO etc. etc.

Identity tracking component may send alerts to a consumer via the consumer s preset communication channels. The alerts may alert the consumer about a potential compromise of the consumer s identity based on triggers from the UIS. Identity tracking component may provide consumer account monitoring and may provide a composite activity based view of account usage. Identity tracking component may provide an interface for a consumer to specify and receive reports on how the consumer s identity has been used.

Offers component may enable a consumer to manage offers such as coupons referrals future offer based program types etc. A coupon may include an offer name an offer description an offer code an offer workflow a product a service an automatically enrolled new consumer a number of offers on enroll a maximum number of offers timing of the offer a location of the offer etc. Offers component may enable a consumer to search offers sort offers and or set interface preferences regarding how the consumer searches sorts and interacts with offers. Offers component may enable a consumer to automatically redeem an offer based on consumer defined qualifications and may support dynamic manual redemption of offers at a time of a transaction.

Loyalty component may enable a consumer to set preference settings for loyalty programs with enterprises. The preference settings may include method of contact e.g. email mail telemarketing text message etc. contact frequency authentication method etc. Lifestyle application platform may import loyalty programs information e.g. from enterprises and or third parties for a specific consumer into loyalty component . Loyalty component may enable a consumer to specify qualifications by which stored loyalty rewards points are used such as by product category brand enterprise location offer attributes price cumulative savings manual automated selection etc. Loyalty component may enable a consumer to search loyalty program information sort loyalty program information and or set interface preferences regarding how the consumer searches sorts and interacts with loyalty programs.

Loyalty component may enable a consumer to redeem loyalty rewards points automatically based on consumer defined qualifications and may support dynamic manual redemption of loyalty rewards points at a time of a transaction. Loyalty component may enable enterprises to communicate to consumer loyalty program members warranties rebates recall notices surveys product registrations reviews etc. Loyalty component may communicate with outside institutions to capture payment transactions by a consumer and to credit rewards to the consumer. Loyalty component may award loyalty rewards to consumers based on non purchase transactions.

Payment component may import consumer payment instrument information such as credit card information debit card information coupon information voucher information etc. Payment component may perform pre authorization functions for digital payment transactions and may enable a consumer to make a hybrid payment from the combination of a digital payment redeeming an offer and or redeeming loyalty program rewards points based on consumer defined qualifications. Upon completion of a payment payment component may remove an offer from a consumer s offers service debit a consumer s loyalty program rewards account debit a consumer s digital payment account etc. Payment component may enable a consumer to specify qualifications by which payment methods are used such as by product category brand enterprise location offer attributes price cumulative savings manual automated selection hybrid payments etc.

Payment component may capture a payment account transaction for all purchases in the form of a digital equivalent of a receipt and may enable an enterprise to attach an offer to a digital receipt. Payment component may enable a consumer to search payment account transactions sort payment account transactions and or set interface preferences regarding how the consumer searches sorts and interacts with payment method accounts. Payment component may enable a consumer to make payments via specified payment methods based on consumer defined qualifications and may support dynamic manual selection of a payment method at a time of a transaction.

Payment component may enable a consumer to replenish an account balance e.g. via funds from an account outside lifestyle application platform debit an account balance e.g. return funds to an account outside lifestyle application platform and or request a refund from an enterprise. Payment component may advise a consumer on the success or failure of a payment and may provide an e commerce data conduit with a financial institution e.g. a bank a credit card provider etc. that shares consumer e payment data. Payment component may store a real time transaction linkage to an institution with up to date balance information.

Web SSO component may enable a consumer to access enterprise devices via web SSO one time SSO anonymous access etc. Web SSO component may provide consumer access to enterprise devices at an authentication level specified by an enterprise or by the consumer for the enterprise. With regard to web SSO web SSO component may provide a consumer with web SSO access to enterprise devices if specifically allowed by the enterprise. The consumer when accessing enterprise devices via web SSO access may be authenticated and recognized by enterprise devices . With regard to one time SSO web SSO component may request a consumer to confirm one time SSO when accessing enterprise devices . Web SSO component may permit one time SSO access to enterprise devices if specifically allowed by the enterprise. The consumer when accessing enterprise devices via one time SSO access may be authenticated and recognized by enterprise devices . Web SSO component may redirect a consumer when using anonymous access to enterprise devices to a public landing page provided by enterprise devices .

Although shows example functional components of consumer services component in other implementations consumer services component may include fewer functional components different functional components differently arranged functional components or additional functional components than depicted in . Additionally or alternatively one or more functional components of consumer services component may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other functional components of consumer services component .

Enterprise settings control panel component may enable an enterprise to restrict enable data exchange with another enterprise and define and manage the enterprise s locations the enterprise s association with offer loyalty programs the enterprise s customer association with the offer loyalty programs etc. Enterprise settings control panel component may enable an enterprise to restrict or enable data sharing privileges with another enterprise and may provide restricted data element sharing between enterprises for profile procurement referral analytics etc. exchanges. Enterprise settings control panel component may enable an enterprise to define one or multiple enterprise locations that may interact with consumers and to retrieve enterprise locations update enterprise locations delete enterprise locations etc.

Enterprise settings control panel component may enable an enterprise to define one or more programs retrieve programs update programs etc. The programs may include coupon services loyalty program services referral services digital payment services etc. Enterprise settings control panel component may enable an enterprise to associate the enterprise with one or more programs retrieve the associated programs create associated programs delete associated programs etc. Enterprise settings control panel component may enable an enterprise to associate one or more consumers with a program e.g. subject to the consumer s approval retrieve the associated consumer programs create associated consumer programs delete associated consumer programs etc.

Enterprise settings control panel component may enable an enterprise to define one or more workflows that dictate how an action within lifestyle application platform is triggered by an event. Enterprise settings control panel component may enable an enterprise to retrieve workflows update workflows obtain specifications for workflows update the specifications for workflows etc. Enterprise settings control panel component may enable an enterprise to define settings that require confirmation of the enterprise for certain marketing activities. The marketing activities may include profile procurement requests profile procurement request acceptance coupon publication approval referral requests referral request acceptance loyalty program publication approval etc. Enterprise settings control panel component may enable an enterprise to customize and limit the enterprise dashboard functionality.

Enterprise payment control panel component may enable an enterprise to replenish the enterprise s accounts balance debit the enterprise s accounts balance view search and sort the enterprise s payments set interface settings request a refund for a payment track collection status of marketing exchange fees etc. Enterprise payment control panel component may enable various payment methods e.g. credit card debit card automated clearing house ACH transactions etc. to be imported for an enterprise and may enable an enterprise to replenish the enterprise s account balance e.g. via funds from an account outside of lifestyle application platform . Enterprise payment control panel component may enable an enterprise to debit the enterprise s account balance e.g. returning funds to an account outside of lifestyle application platform and may capture a payment account transaction for all purchases in the form of a digital equivalent of a receipt.

Enterprise payment control panel component may enable an enterprise to search payment account transactions sort payment account transactions set interface preferences regarding how the enterprise searches sorts and interacts with payment method accounts etc. Enterprise payment control panel component may enable an enterprise to request a refund from lifestyle application platform and may notify an enterprise about a success or a failure of a payment. Enterprise payment control panel component may provide an e commerce data conduit with a financial institution e.g. a bank a credit card provider etc. that shares an enterprise s e payment data. Enterprise payment control panel component may provide a method for tracking all agreed upon fees for consumer data record exchange as well as a collection status of those fees.

Enterprise profile control panel component may provide role based access and operation rights for an enterprise to data exchange and processing services profile procurement services enterprise database maintenance services etc. Enterprise profile control panel component may compile a list of consumer data records based on data element criteria and selectivity may differentiate between opt in and opt out consumer data records and may suppress or select those records as specified by particular rules. Enterprise profile control panel component may suppress records for marketing campaigns that do not meet a consumer s frequency preferences and may support receipt of data files from third party sources e.g. enterprise partners government agencies etc. .

Enterprise campaign control panel component may provide role based access and operations rights for an enterprise to coupon management services referral management services loyalty program management services etc. Enterprise campaign control panel component may identify real time transaction based parses from a transaction log file as a basis for triggering a marketing program based on coupons referrals loyalty program management future marketing effort based programs marketing efforts on enterprise devices marketing efforts from third party systems etc. Enterprise campaign control panel component may relay real time transaction based triggers from the transaction log file to enterprise device .

Enterprise campaign control panel component may create marketing programs that rely upon real time transactional data exchange with enterprise device immediately after a purchase so that associated product offerings may be conveyed to a consumer. Enterprise campaign control panel component may create geo location based marketing programs that provide geographically targeted marketing efforts based upon consumer proximity to an enterprise location. Enterprise campaign control panel component may create marketing programs that rely on providing related suggestions while a consumer is searching for products and offers.

Enterprise marketing analytics control panel component may provide an enterprise with access to customer targeting services market analysis services etc. Enterprise marketing analytics control panel component may capture for analytics processing transaction data at every process step within lifestyle application platform that interacts with a consumer data element. Enterprise marketing analytics control panel component may capture for marketing analytics processing consumer data such as demographic information identity information geographic information transactional information channel specific contact information campaign performances etc. associated with consumers. Enterprise marketing analytics control panel component may generate analytics reports based on the consumer data and or based on third party data received from enterprise devices .

For consumers who are customers of an enterprise enterprise help desk control panel component may retrieve consumer information create consumer profiles update consumer profiles retrieve consumer profiles obtain a status of a consumer change the status of the consumer etc. Enterprise help desk control panel component may enable an enterprise to retrieve accounts of a consumer retrieve balance information for a consumer account retrieve transactions of a consumer account etc.

Enterprise security control panel component may enable an enterprise to access UIS administrative functionality and to set security preferences for the enterprise. Enterprise security control panel component may enable an enterprise to have search auditing and reporting capabilities for fraud and security log records of the enterprise. Enterprise security control panel component may enable enterprises to change lifestyle application platform default login duration settings.

Although shows example functional components of enterprise portal component in other implementations enterprise portal component may include fewer functional components different functional components differently arranged functional components or additional functional components than depicted in . Additionally or alternatively one or more functional components of enterprise portal component may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other functional components of enterprise portal component .

Enterprise payment services component may enable an enterprise to replenish the enterprise s accounts balance debit the enterprise s accounts balance view search and sort the enterprise s payments set interface settings request a refund for a payment track collection status of marketing exchange fees etc. Enterprise payment services component may enable various payment methods to be imported for an enterprise and may enable an enterprise to replenish the enterprise s account balance. Enterprise payment services component may enable an enterprise to debit the enterprise s account balance and may capture a payment account transaction for all purchases in the form of a digital equivalent of a receipt.

Enterprise payment services component may enable an enterprise to search payment account transactions sort payment account transactions set interface preferences regarding how the enterprise searches sorts and interacts with payment method accounts etc. Enterprise payment services component may enable an enterprise to request a refund from lifestyle application platform and may notify an enterprise about a success or a failure of a payment. Enterprise payment services component may provide an e commerce data conduit with a financial institution that shares an enterprise s e payment data. Enterprise payment services component may track all agreed upon fees for consumer data record exchange as well as a collection status of those fees.

Enterprise data exchange services component may enable an enterprise to schedule data processing activities such as data downloading data merging and or purging data cleansing data suppression data fulfillment etc. Enterprise data exchange services component may perform data merging purging may de duplicate consumer data records and may compile the information into a single flat file. The data cleansing may be performed against known acceptable data records. Enterprise data exchange services component may suppress or omit a consumer data record from another consumer data record for consumers that opted out of marketing campaign data usage are listed on government compiled privacy lists have not paid for products or services opted out of all marketing activities etc.

Enterprise data exchange services component may suppress of consumer data provided by an enterprise within a marketing exchange community and may transmit compiled consumer data records to an authorized third party such as a mail house an email fulfillment provider a SMS provider a list broker service etc. Enterprise data exchange services component may provide an enterprise with a status view of all merge purge data cleanse suppression and fulfillment processes that pertain to the enterprise. Enterprise data exchange services component may provide an enterprise a detailed data processing view that can be searched and sorted by campaign marketing channel product service stage of data processing etc.

Enterprise profile procurement services component may enable an enterprise to obtain data order counts request a data order from another enterprise track a data order append documentation to a data order review a data order from another enterprise approve a data order etc. Enterprise profile procurement services component may enable enterprises to exchange consumer profile data with segmentation and criteria based data element selectivity. Enterprise profile procurement services component may support consumer data record selectivity based on demographics purchase type industry segmentation income purchase amount purchase method ethnicity etc. Enterprise profile procurement services component may enable an enterprise to query a database storing consumer data records by data record selectivity.

Enterprise profile procurement services component may enable an enterprise to confirm and order a list of consumer data records for a defined marketing campaign from another enterprise. Enterprise profile procurement services component may enable an enterprise to track all list order requests that pertain to the enterprise and to attach required documentation to a list order such as marketing content list rental agreement terms an invoice etc. Enterprise profile procurement services component may enable an enterprise to review associated list order documentation and accept a list order request. Enterprise profile procurement services component may transmit data files from one enterprise to another enterprise once a list order request has been confirmed and may enable an enterprise to confirm a list order request.

Enterprise database maintenance component may enable an enterprise to cleanse and update the enterprise s internal database attributes. Enterprise database maintenance component may link a consumer across multiple enterprise devices and or lifestyle application platform so that when changes are made to the consumer s profile the changes are made across multiple enterprise devices . Enterprise database maintenance component may provide business rules that establish a priority for consumer profile data received from various sources.

Enterprise coupon management services component may enable an enterprise to create a coupon edit a coupon copy a coupon delete a coupon publish a coupon attach a coupon to a campaign etc. A coupon may include a coupon name a coupon description a coupon code a coupon workflow a product service name a maximum number of offers timing conditions location information etc. Enterprise coupon management services component may enable an enterprise to confirm a coupon publication action.

Enterprise referral management services component may enable an enterprise to request a referral partnership initiation e.g. with another enterprise request a referral partnership termination track referral requests append documentation to a referral request confirm a referral request etc. Enterprise referral management services component may enable an enterprise to request a referral partnership initiation for a defined marketing campaign with another enterprise. The documentation appended to a referral request may include marketing content referral program terms a fee structure etc. Enterprise referral management services component may enable an enterprise to review the referral request documentation and to accept a referral initiation request. Enterprise referral management services component may transmit real time transactional log data from one enterprise to another enterprise once a referral initiation request has been confirmed. Enterprise referral management services component may track all agreed upon fees for referral program exchanges as well as the collection status of those fees.

Enterprise loyalty management services component may enable an enterprise to create a loyalty program edit a loyalty program copy a loyalty program delete a loyalty program publish a loyalty program attach a loyalty program to a campaign manage loyalty program registration manage points awards manage benefit allocations etc. The loyalty program may include a loyalty program name a loyalty program description a loyalty program code a loyalty program workflow qualifying products services a maximum number of offers a maximum number of points an initial number of points a valid time period for the program location information etc.

Enterprise preference targeting tools component may provide analytics tools for an enterprise to identify potential consumers for marketing activities for specific products services and or content. Enterprise preference targeting tools component may provide tools for an enterprise to predict consumer value potential in terms of response likelihood and lifetime value of new customers. Enterprise preference targeting tools component may provide tools for an enterprise to perform campaign response analysis tying marketing efforts to consumer orders with multiple forms of performance reporting. Enterprise preference targeting tools component may provide an enterprise with performance modeling tools for untapped markets cross sell opportunities identification of at risk customers prediction of future loyalty and churn etc.

Enterprise transaction value forecasting component may provide tools for an enterprise to specify market analytics report parameters and request market analytics reports. Enterprise transaction value forecasting component may enable an enterprise to request data enrichment of consumer data stored by lifestyle application platform . Enterprise transaction value forecasting component may provide tools for an enterprise to conduct customer profiling and analysis across various anonymous or aggregate data categories such as demographic self identified geographic transactional etc. data categories. Enterprise transaction value forecasting component may provide reporting tools for an enterprise to evaluate the enterprise s marketing exchange performance and may provide reporting tools for planning budgeting forecasting and executing marketing campaigns and measuring response.

Enterprise fraud prevention component may enable an enterprise to access UIS administrative functionality and to set security preferences for the enterprise. Enterprise fraud prevention component may enable an enterprise to have search auditing and reporting capabilities for fraud and security log records of the enterprise and or of consumers associated with the enterprise.

Although shows example functional components of enterprise services component in other implementations enterprise services component may include fewer functional components different functional components differently arranged functional components or additional functional components than depicted in . Additionally or alternatively one or more functional components of enterprise services component may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other functional components of enterprise services component .

Predictive decision analytics component may perform predictive and or decision analytics on data e.g. consumer information and or enterprise information stored by lifestyle application platform . The predictive analytics may include a variety of techniques e.g. modeling machine learning data mining etc. that analyze current and historical data to make predictions about future events. The predictive analytics may exploit patterns found in historical and transactional data to identify risks and opportunities for enterprises. The predictive analytics may capture relationships among many factors to allow assessment of risk or potential associated with a particular set of conditions which may guide decision making for candidate transactions. The decision analytics may includes procedures methods and or tools for identifying representing and assessing aspects of a decision and for prescribing a recommended course of action.

In one example implementation predictive decision analytics component may utilize statistics clustering classification and or prediction to make predictions e.g. about consumer behavior . Statistics may include collecting organizing analyzing interpreting and presenting data. Clustering may include assigning a set of data into groups e.g. clusters so that data in the same cluster may be more similar to each other than to data in other clusters. In one example clustering may be used in conjunction with explorative data mining. Classification may include identifying to which set of categories e.g. classifications a new data observation belongs based on a training set of data containing data with a known category membership. Prediction may include analyzing current and historical data to make predictions about future events e.g. consumer behavior .

Knowledge consumption component may utilize the data stored by lifestyle application platform to generate triggers reports services and or dashboards . Triggers may include mechanisms that cause lifestyle application platform to push information e.g. offers notifications marketing campaigns etc. to consumers e.g. via user devices . Reports may include analytics reports marketing reports sales reports for products services and or content etc. Services may include any of the services described herein for lifestyle application platform . For example services may include program management services privacy management services an offers service loyalty services digital payment services etc. Dashboards may include any of the dashboards described herein for lifestyle application platform . For example dashboards may include the consumer dashboard provided by consumer portal component the enterprise dashboard provided by enterprise portal component etc.

Analytics engine may provide advanced and continuous analysis of real time information and historical data retrieved and or received by lifestyle application platform . Analytics engine may analyze data from multiple information sources and may provide insight into consumer behavior.

Decision engine may use data received from consumers e.g. consumer information and or enterprises e.g. enterprise information to provide more relevant or targeted offers for products services and or content. Decision engine may use such data to provide customized offers for each consumer.

Although shows example functional components of analytics component in other implementations analytics component may include fewer functional components different functional components differently arranged functional components or additional functional components than depicted in . Additionally or alternatively one or more functional components of analytics component may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other functional components of analytics component .

Metadata component may create metadata for some or all of the data retrieved and or received by lifestyle application platform . In one example the quality of the original data may be increased by creating metadata for the data.

Enrichment component may add external information from multiple sources to the data retrieved received by lifestyle application platform . The external information may enhance the quality and richness of the data and may provide more information to enterprises e.g. about consumers .

Transformation component may convert the data retrieved received by lifestyle application platform from a first data format into a second different data format. In one example the data may be transformed into a format that may be utilized by user devices and or enterprise devices .

Aggregation component may aggregate the data retrieved received by lifestyle application platform into a summary form for a variety of purposes e.g. statistical analysis obtain more information about particular consumers based on specific variables such as age profession income etc. .

ETL component may extract data e.g. the data retrieved received by lifestyle application platform from outside sources may transform the data to fit operational needs e.g. of the enterprises and may load the data into an end target e.g. a database an operational data store a data mart a data warehouse etc. .

Cleansing component may detect and correct or remove corrupt or inaccurate records from the data retrieved received by lifestyle application platform . In one example cleansing component may identify incomplete incorrect inaccurate irrelevant etc. parts of the data and may replace modify or delete the identified parts of the data.

Validation component may use routines e.g. validation rules check routines etc. to check for correctness meaningfulness and security of the data retrieved received by lifestyle application platform . The routines may be implemented through automated facilities of a data dictionary or by inclusion of explicit application program validation logic.

Harmonization component may compare two or more data records e.g. from the data retrieved received by lifestyle application platform and may identify commonalties among the data records that warrant the data records being combined or harmonized into a single data record.

Although shows example functional components of data integration component in other implementations data integration component may include fewer functional components different functional components differently arranged functional components or additional functional components than depicted in . Additionally or alternatively one or more functional components of data integration component may perform one or more other tasks described as being performed by one or more other functional components of data integration component .

Internal data may include data associated with consumers and or user devices utilized by consumers. For example internal data may include consumer profiles consumer transactions UIS information mobile application usage information mobile web usage information and mobile device usage information . Consumer profiles may include information associated with profiles created by consumers as described herein. Consumer transactions may include transactions performed by consumers with lifestyles application platform as described herein. UIS information may include identity services information provided by a UIS. Mobile application usage information may include information associated with usage of the lifestyle application by consumers e.g. via user devices . Mobile web usage information may include information associated with web usage by consumers e.g. via user devices . Mobile device usage information may include information associated with usage of user devices by consumers.

External data may include data associated with enterprises enterprise devices utilized by enterprises and or third parties. For example external data may include member profiles loyalty profiles and third party source data . Member profiles may include information associated with profiles created by enterprises via lifestyle application platform . Loyalty profiles may include information associated with consumer loyalty profiles for enterprises associated with lifestyle application platform . Third party source data may include data provided by third parties to lifestyle application platform such as marketing reports consumer information sales reports for products services and or content etc.

Although shows example data that may be provided in data sources component in other implementations data sources component may include less data different data differently arranged data or additional data than depicted in .

The user interfaces of may depict the steps for installing the lifestyle application on user device . In one example user device may receive an email from lifestyle application platform with a link to begin the installation. If the consumer selects the link in the email user interface of may be displayed to the consumer. User interface may provide information about the lifestyle application e.g. a version number a file size etc. and may instruct the consumer to register user device before installing the lifestyle application. If the consumer selects a Register Device button user device may communicate with lifestyle application platform so that lifestyle application platform may register user device .

After user device is registered user interface of may be displayed to the consumer. User interface may provide information about installing a profile for the lifestyle application on user device and may include a mechanism e.g. an Install button that may begin the installation of the profile. If the consumer selects the Install button user device may begin the profile installation process and user interface of may be displayed to the consumer. User interface may provide a warning that installing the profile on user device will change settings on user device . If the consumer wants to proceed with the profile installation the consumer may select an Install Now button. If the consumer selects the Install Now button the profile for the lifestyle application may be installed on user device e.g. by lifestyle application platform . After the profile is installed user interface of may be displayed to the consumer. User interface may provide information confirming that the profile is installed on user device and may include a mechanism e.g. a Done button that may begin the lifestyle application installation process.

If the consumer selects the Done button user interface of may be displayed to the consumer. User interface may provide information about the lifestyle application e.g. a version number a file size etc. and may include a mechanism e.g. an Install button that may begin the installation of the lifestyle application. If the consumer selects the Install button user device may begin the lifestyle application installation process and user interface of may be displayed to the consumer. User interface may provide a notification querying whether the consumer wants to install the lifestyle application on user device . If the consumer wants to proceed with the lifestyle application installation the consumer may select an Install button. If the consumer selects the Install button the lifestyle application may be installed on user device e.g. by lifestyle application platform .

The lifestyle application may include a main screen or channel a social screen and a shop screen. User interfaces and of respectively may provide an example of information provided in a portion of the main screen. As shown the main screen may include an explore button a scan and pay button a me button a social button and a shop button. In one example implementation any of buttons described herein may be replaced with other types of selection mechanisms such as icons links etc. Features associated with the explore button the scan and pay button the me button the social button and the shop button are described below.

If the consumer selects the social button user interface of may be displayed to the consumer. Alternatively or additionally the consumer may swipe right or left to reach user interface . User interface may provide information associated with consumer s social screen. As shown the social screen may include an image of the consumer or an image selected by the consumer a reviews button a friends nearby button a social intelligence quotient IQ button a list of the consumer s friends etc. Selection of the reviews button may cause the lifestyle application to display reviews of different products service and or content provided by other consumers associated with lifestyle application platform . Selection of the friends nearby button may cause the lifestyle application to display a list of the consumer s friends that are physically located near e.g. a predetermined distance from the consumer. Selection of the social IQ button may cause the lifestyle application to display a social IQ of the consumer. The social IQ may include a number or some other mechanism that identifies how many of the consumer s friends are associated with lifestyle application platform . In one example a higher the social IQ number e.g. higher than a threshold may cause the lifestyle application to provide certain benefits e.g. rewards special offers etc. to the consumer since the information about the consumer s friends may be valuable to the enterprises.

If the consumer selects the shop button user interface of may be displayed to the consumer. Alternatively or additionally the consumer may swipe right or left to reach user interface . User interface may provide information associated with consumer s shop screen. As shown the shop screen may include an image of the consumer or an image selected by the consumer a restaurants button an events button a shop IQ button a list of offers available from various enterprises e.g. 10 off clothes at a clothing store etc. Selection of the restaurants button may cause the lifestyle application to display a list of restaurants that meet a preference e.g. gluten free associated with the consumer. Selection of the events button may cause the lifestyle application to display a list of events e.g. sales special offers etc. provided by enterprises associated with the consumer. Selection of the shop IQ button may cause the lifestyle application to display a shop IQ of the consumer. The shop IQ may include a number or some other mechanism that identifies shopping habits e.g. brand preferences number of transactions dollar amount spent etc. of the consumer. In one example a higher the shop IQ number e.g. higher than threshold may cause the lifestyle application to provide certain benefits e.g. rewards special offers etc. to the consumer since the information about the consumer s shopping habits may be valuable to the enterprises.

When the lifestyle application is launched the main screen may be displayed to the consumer. User interface of may provide an example of information provided in a portion of the main screen. As shown the main screen may include a play button a home button a work button a travel button a my day button a favorites section and an explore button. Selection of the play button may cause the lifestyle application to display relevant enterprise information from enterprises that provide social products services and or content e.g. movie times restaurant information etc. to the consumer. Selection of the work button may cause the lifestyle application to display relevant enterprise information from enterprises that provide work related products services and or content e.g. teleconferencing services financial market information etc. to the consumer. Selection of the travel button may cause the lifestyle application to display relevant enterprise information from enterprises that provide travel related products services and or content e.g. airline services hotel services etc. to the consumer. Selection of the my day button may cause the lifestyle application to display a calendar that lists meetings events etc. of the consumer. The favorites section may display a list of the consumer s favorite brands enterprises etc.

If the consumer swipes right or left user interface of may be displayed to the consumer. User interface may provide the shop screen and may include the features described above for user interface . If the consumer selects the shop IQ button user interface of may be displayed to the consumer. User interface may provide an expanded view of the consumer s shop IQ. For example user interface may reference an item purchased at a particular store e.g. Better Purchase and may ask the consumer whether the particular store is the consumer s favorite source for consumer electronics. Based on the consumer s response to the question about the particular store the consumer s shop IQ may change. For example the shop IQ may increase or decrease based on whether the consumer responds yes or no to the question about the particular store.

If the consumer swipes right or left user interface of may be displayed to the consumer. User interface may provide the social screen and may include the features described above for user interface . If the consumer selects the social IQ button user interface of may be displayed to the consumer. User interface may provide an expanded view of the consumer s social IQ. For example user interface may reference an item purchased from a person s e.g. Devin Zwicky wish list and may ask the consumer whether the person is a close friend of the consumer. Based on the consumer s response to the question about the person the consumer s social IQ may change. For example the social IQ may increase or decrease based on whether the consumer responds yes or no to the question about the person.

If the consumer selects the explore button see of the main screen user interface of may be displayed to the consumer. User interface may provide the explore screen and may include a deals button a friends button an events button a near me section etc. Selection of the deals button may cause the lifestyle application to display deals for products services and or content relevant to the consumer. Selection of the friends button may cause the lifestyle application to display a list of the consumer s friends. Selection of the events button may cause the lifestyle application to display events e.g. sales special offers etc. associated with products services and or content relevant to the consumer.

The consumer may scroll down to see information associated with the near me section as shown in user interface of . User interface may provide information associated with different products services and or content from enterprises that are physically located near e.g. within a predetermined distance the consumer. For example user interface may provide a list of coffee shops entertainment food etc. located near the consumer. The consumer may access the shop screen from the explore screen of and the lifestyle application may display user interface of and or user interface of to the consumer. User interfaces and may include the features described above in connection with user interfaces respectively.

If the consumer selects the scan and pay button of the main screen see user interface of may be displayed to the consumer. User interface may provide the scan and pay screen and may include a snap picture button a voice search button a scan an item button a recent section etc. Selection of the snap picture button may cause user device to enable the consumer to take a picture with a camera of user device . Selection of the voice search button may cause the lifestyle application to enable the consumer to perform a voice search. Selection of the scan an item button may cause the lifestyle application to enable the consumer to scan and pay for a product service and or content.

The consumer may scroll down to see information associated with the recent section as shown in user interface of . User interface may provide information associated with different products services and or content from enterprises that were recently purchased by the consumer. For example user interface may provide information associated with a dinner a dress etc. that were recently purchased by the consumer. The consumer may access the social screen from the scan and pay screen of and the lifestyle application may display user interface of and or user interface of to the consumer. User interfaces and may include the features described above in connection with user interfaces respectively.

Alternatively or additionally the consumer may access the shop screen from the scan and pay screen of and the lifestyle application may display user interface of and or user interface of to the consumer. User interfaces and may include the features described above in connection with user interfaces respectively.

If the consumer selects the me button see of the main screen user interface of may be displayed to the consumer. User interface may provide the me screen and may include a play button a work button a home button a travel button a what s new section etc. The me screen may enable the consumer to set global privacy settings view receipts for transactions etc. Selection of the play button may cause the lifestyle application to display relevant enterprise information from enterprises that provide social products services and or content to the consumer. Selection of the work button may cause the lifestyle application to display relevant enterprise information from enterprises that provide work related products services and or content to the consumer. Selection of the home button may cause the lifestyle application to display the main screen . Selection of the travel button may cause the lifestyle application to display relevant enterprise information from enterprises that provide travel related products services and or content to the consumer.

The consumer may scroll down to see information associated with the what s new section as shown in user interface of . User interface may provide information associated with purchases rewards etc. that were made or received by the consumer. For example user interface may provide information associated with a dinner a dress headphones coffee etc. that were recently purchased by the consumer. The consumer may continue to scroll down to see information associated with an interests section as shown in user interface of . User interface may include information associated with interests of the consumer. For example if the consumer is utilizing a travel mode the interests may include information associated with air travel coffee shops dining etc. If the consumer selects air travel user interface of may be displayed to the consumer. User interface may provide a list of enterprises that provide air travel services. The consumer may continue to scroll down to see information associated with a trips section as shown in user interface of . User interface may include information associated with trips planned by the consumer.

The consumer may access the social screen from the me screen of and the lifestyle application may display user interface of and or user interface of to the consumer. User interfaces and may include the features described above in connection with user interfaces respectively. Alternatively or additionally the consumer may access the shop screen from the me screen of and the lifestyle application may display user interface of and or user interface of to the consumer. User interfaces and may include the features described above in connection with user interfaces respectively.

The consumer may continue to scroll down to see information associated with a brands section as shown in user interface of . User interface may include information associated with the consumer s favorite brands. The consumer may set a privacy level e.g. anonymous pseudonymous legal etc. for each of the brands listed in the brands section. For example the consumer may elect to share a bare minimum amount of information about the consumer as shown in user interface of . Alternatively the consumer may elect to share the consumer s preferences anonymously so that the enterprises know what the consumer likes and can customize the consumer s experience as shown in user interface of . Alternatively the consumer may elect to share the consumer s location and identity so that the enterprises may provide VIP service to the consumer as shown in user interface of . Alternatively the consumer may elect to share the consumer s full profile so that the enterprises may offer highly personalized offers for products services etc. as shown in user interface of .

The consumer may utilize the brands section to set preferences for each of the brands listed in the brands section. For example the consumer may change a shoe size and a dress size of the consumer e.g. for an enterprise offering shoes or dresses via the brands section as shown in user interface of and user interface of . The consumer may continue to scroll down to see information associated with a payment section as shown in user interface of . User interface may enable the consumer to set payment settings. For example the consumer may require a personal identification number PIN for purchases over an amount e.g. 200 set by the consumer. The consumer may receive an authentication challenge based on the payment amount set in the payment section. For example if the consumer performs a transaction with Better Purchase for an amount that exceeds 200 the lifestyle application may display a Verify Pin screen. If the transaction amount does not exceed 200 the transaction may be completed without entering a PIN.

User interface of may display the main screen e.g. described above in to the consumer. As shown user interface may include the favorites section that provides a list of the consumer s favorite brands. However user interface may be unable to display all of the consumer s favorite brands on a single screen. Thus the consumer may swipe right or left on the favorites section to see additional brands of the brands section as shown in user interface of .

In one example user interfaces of may depict information associated with a hotel check in scenario. Assume that the consumer associated with user device previously reserved a room at a particular hotel e.g. M Hotel via lifestyle application platform . Accordingly lifestyle application platform may store all of the information associated with the consumer s reservation.

When the consumer approaches the hotel with user device location information associated with user device may trigger lifestyle application platform to provide a notification to user device . For example as shown in the notification may cause the lifestyle application to display user interface . User interface may display a notification asking whether the consumer wishes to check into the hotel e.g. Hi Mary Wise. Welcome to M New York. Are you ready to check in If the consumer selects Check In on user interface user interface of may be displayed to the consumer. User interface may display a check in now window to the consumer.

If the consumer selects the check in now window of user interface of may be displayed to the consumer. User interface may request that the consumer provide a thumbprint or some other verification mechanism to verify an identity of the consumer. If the consumer provides a thumbprint and lifestyle application platform verifies the consumer thumbprint user interface of may be displayed to the consumer. User interface may provide the consumer with an option to receive an electronic room key or to unlock the door to the consumer s hotel room. Since the consumer does not have the electronic room key yet the consumer may elect to receive the electronic room key.

When the consumer elects to receive the electronic room key lifestyle application platform may provide the electronic room key to user device and user interface of may be displayed to the consumer. User interface may indicate that user device has received the electronic room key and that the electronic room key is ready for use. The lifestyle application may provide information associated with the reservation in user interface of . User interface may display to the consumer a room number e.g. Room an option to call the front desk directions an option to open the door to the room etc. If the consumer selects the option to open the door to the room user interface of may be displayed to the consumer. User interface may provide the consumer with option to receive an electronic room key or to unlock the door to the consumer s hotel room. Since the consumer has the electronic room key the consumer may elect to unlock the door to the hotel room. When the consumer elects to unlock the door the consumer may tap user device against a lock of the door and the electronic room key e.g. provided to user device may unlock the door. Once the door is unlocked the lifestyle application may display user interface of to the consumer. User interface may provide details about the room e.g. a rate per night check in and check out dates etc. and other information e.g. maps directions phone numbers etc. .

The consumer may return to the main screen e.g. described above in as shown in user interface of . From the main screen the consumer may manipulate the favorites section until an icon or button for the M Hotel appears in the favorites section. As shown in user interface of the consumer may select the button for the M Hotel from the favorites section to once again view the room details displayed in user interface .

The consumer may access the social screen from the main screen of and the lifestyle application may display user interface of and or user interface of to the consumer. User interfaces and may include the features described above in connection with user interfaces respectively. If the consumer selects the social IQ button from user interface user interface may display information associated with the consumer s social contacts. For example user interface may indicate that Kate Ashby is staying at the same M Hotel as the consumer and may ask whether Kate Ashby is the consumer s work colleague.

Alternatively or additionally the consumer may access the shop screen from the main screen of and the lifestyle application may display user interface of and or user interface of to the consumer. User interfaces and may include the features described above in connection with user interfaces respectively. If the consumer selects the shop IQ button from user interface user interface may display information associated with the M Hotel. For example user interface may indicate that this is the consumer s third stay at the M Hotel and may ask whether the M Hotel is the consumer s favorite place to stay while in New York.

The consumer may share the consumer s profile with the M Hotel s kiosk so that the consumer may see personalized offers from the M Hotel. For example the consumer may return to the main screen e.g. described above in as shown in user interface of . From the main screen the consumer may manipulate the favorites section until an icon or button for the M Hotel appears in the favorites section. As shown in user interface of the consumer may select the button for the M Hotel from the favorites section to share the consumer s profile with the M Hotel kiosk. User interface of may be displayed to the consumer and may ask whether the consumer wants to share the consumer s profile with the M Hotel kiosk.

After the consumer s profile is provided to the hotel kiosk user interface of may be displayed by the hotel kiosk to the consumer. User interface may include information customized to the consumer such as weather information reservation information travel information dining information etc. If the consumer selects a dinner deal at Milton s restaurant user interface of may be displayed to the consumer by the hotel kiosk. User interface may include information associated with the dinner deal provided by Milton s restaurant. If the consumer selects a reservation button user interface of may be displayed to the consumer by the hotel kiosk. User interface may enable the consumer to book a reservation time and date with Milton s restaurant. After booking the reservation the consumer may select a confirm reservation button and user interface of FIG. D may be displayed to the consumer by the hotel kiosk. User interface may include information associated with recommendations rewards offers etc. provided by Milton s restaurant.

The consumer may utilize the lifestyle application on user device to navigate to the me screen as shown in user interface of . In one example user interface may include the features described above in connection with user interface . User interface may display recent receipts for the consumer s purchases. For example the consumer may select Dinner at Milton s and the lifestyle application may display user interface of to the consumer. User interface may enable the consumer to view the receipt for the dinner at Milton s restaurant and to check the correctness of the receipt.

In one example user interfaces of may depict information associated with the purchase of coffee from a coffee shop e.g. the bean . User interface of may display the main screen e.g. described above in to the consumer. The consumer may select the explore button from the main screen and the lifestyle application may display user interface of to the consumer. User interface may include the features described above in connection with user interface . The consumer may select coffee from the near me section of user interface and the lifestyle application may display user interface of to the consumer. User interface may provide a list of coffee shops near the consumer such as the bean the Spot cafe etc.

The consumer may select the bean coffee shop from the list and the lifestyle application may display user interface of to the consumer. User interface may include a quick order button to order coffee from the bean a map button to provide a map of the area around the bean a directions button to provide directions to the bean a call button to call the bean etc. If the consumer selects the quick order button the lifestyle application may cause user device to place an order for coffee from the bean and may display user interface of to the consumer. User interface may provide information associated with coffee that the consumer typically orders e.g. caramel macchiato and a pay now button that enables the consumer to pay for the coffee.

Alternatively if the consumer selects the quick order button the lifestyle application may display user interface of to the consumer. User interface may provide a list of coffees available to the consumer as well the typically ordered coffee. If the consumer selects the typically ordered coffee e.g. the caramel macchiato as shown in user interface of the lifestyle application may display user interface of to the consumer. User interface may provide information associated with the ordered coffee and a pay now button that enables the consumer to pay for the coffee. Alternatively if the consumer selects another coffee e.g. caffe americano as shown in user interface of the lifestyle application may display user interface of to the consumer. User interface may provide information associated with the ordered coffee and a pay now button that enables the consumer to pay for the coffee. If the consumer selects the pay now button the lifestyle application may cause a payment e.g. of 2.55 to be provided to the bean and may display user interface of to the consumer. User interface may provide a cost of the coffee an option to use reward points to pay for the coffee etc. If the consumer elects to use the reward points to pay for the coffee the lifestyle application may pay for the coffee with the rewards points and may display user interface of to the consumer. User interface may include information confirming payment with the rewards points a balance of the consumer s reward points an option to pour the coffee now etc.

Alternatively or additionally user interfaces of may depict information associated with the purchase of coffee from a coffee shop e.g. the bean . User interface of may display the main screen e.g. described above in to the consumer. The consumer may select the bean coffee shop from the favorites section of the main screen and the lifestyle application may display user interface of to the consumer. User interface may include a promo button to show promotions available from the bean a map button to provide a map of the area around the bean a directions button to provide directions to the bean a call button to call the bean etc. The consumer may access the shop screen from user interface and the lifestyle application may display user interface of and or user interface of to the consumer. User interfaces and may include the features described above in connection with user interfaces respectively. User interface may also include information stating that the bean sells fruit smoothies and inquiring whether the consumer likes fruit smoothies.

The consumer may access the social screen from user interface and the lifestyle application may display user interface of and or user interface of to the consumer. User interfaces and may include the features described above in connection with user interfaces respectively. User interface may also include information stating the consumer met Aaron Thomas for coffee before and inquiring whether Aaron Thomas is a work colleague of the consumer. The consumer may scroll down the social screen to display user interface of . User interface may provide a list of the consumer s friends that are near e.g. within a predetermined distance the consumer. If the consumer selects one of the friends e.g. Aaron Thomas from the list the lifestyle application may display user interface of to the consumer. User interface may include buttons to initiate a chat a phone call or a meeting with Aaron Thomas.

If the consumer selects the meet button the lifestyle application may place an order for the consumer s usual coffee and Aaron Thomas usual coffee from the bean and may display user interface of to the consumer. User interface may provide information associated with the ordered coffee and a pay now button that enables the consumer to pay for both coffees. If the consumer selects the pay now button the lifestyle application may cause a payment e.g. of 7.80 to be provided to the bean and may display user interface of to the consumer. User interface may provide a cost of the coffee an option to use reward points to pay for the coffee etc. If the consumer elects to use the reward points to pay for the coffee the lifestyle application may pay for the coffee with the rewards points and may display user interface of to the consumer. User interface may include information confirming payment with the rewards points a balance of the consumer s reward points an option to pour the coffee now etc. If the consumer selects a pour now button the lifestyle application may provide user interface of for display to the consumer. User interface may include an option e.g. a my order button to view a receipt for the ordered coffee.

If the consumer selects the my order button the lifestyle application may provide user interface of for display to the consumer. User interface may provide a summary of the order e.g. a caramel macchiato and a cappuccino a QR code for the receipt etc. The consumer may navigate to the me screen shown in user interface of . User interface may include the features described above in connection with user interface . User interface may display the coffee purchase from the bean in the what s new section. If the consumer selects the coffee purchase the lifestyle application may provide user interface of for display to the consumer. User interface may include a receipt for the purchased coffee including when the coffee was purchased a cost of the coffee a location of the bean etc.

In one example user interfaces of may depict information associated with a purchase from an electronics store e.g. the Better Purchase . User interface of may display the main screen e.g. described above in to the consumer. The consumer may select the Better Purchase store from the favorites section of the main screen and the lifestyle application may display user interface of to the consumer. User interface may display a notification about a special offer on headphones e.g. on the consumer s wish list available at the Better Purchase store. If the consumer selects a see offer button of user interface the lifestyle application may provide user interface of for display to the consumer. User interface may provide a description of the special offer and an option to see details about the special offer for the headphones.

If the consumer selects the see details option the lifestyle application may provide user interface of for display to the consumer. User interface may provide a picture of the headphones a price of the headphones an option to meet a salesperson at the nearest Better Purchase store etc. If the consumer selects the option to meet the salesperson the lifestyle application may send an alert to the salesperson at the Better Purchase and may provide user interface of for display to the consumer. User interface may provide promotional information for other related offers provided by the Better Purchase.

The salesperson e.g. via a user device at the Better Purchase may receive an alert as shown in user interface of . The alert may indicate that the consumer will be visiting the store shortly about the offer on the headphones. The salesperson may select an OK button to view details associated with the customer coming to visit the store as shown in user interface of . The customer details may include a picture of the customer rewards points earned by the customer recent purchases by the customer details about the headphones the customer wants to purchase etc. The salesperson may greet the consumer at the door of the Better Purchase and may immediately direct the consumer to the headphones.

Once the consumer has the headphones the consumer may initiate payment for the headphones by accessing the main screen as shown in user interface of and selecting the Better Purchase button from the favorites section. When the user selects the Better Purchase button the lifestyle application may provide user interface of for display to the consumer. User interface may ask whether the consumer wishes to pay for the headphones. If the consumer selects a Pay Now button on user interface the lifestyle application may provide user interface of for display to the consumer. User interface may provide a description of the headphones a purchase price a pay now button etc. If the consumer selects a pay now button on user interface the lifestyle application may provide user interface of for display to the consumer. User interface may request that the consumer provide a PIN e.g. since the purchase is over 200 to complete the transaction. If the consumer provides the correct PIN the lifestyle application may provide payment to the Better Purchase and may provide user interface of for display to the consumer. User interface may provide an indication that the payment for the headphones is complete a number of reward points received for the purchase etc.

The consumer may access the shop screen from user interface and the lifestyle application may display user interface of to the consumer. User interface may include the features described above in connection with user interface . The consumer may navigate to the me screen shown in user interface of . User interface may include the features described above in connection with user interface . User interface may display the headphones purchased from the Better Purchase in the what s new section. If the consumer selects the headphones purchase the lifestyle application may provide user interface of for display to the consumer. User interface may include a receipt for the purchased headphones including when the headphones were purchased a cost of the headphones etc.

The consumer may access the social screen from user interface and the lifestyle application may display user interface of and or user interface of to the consumer. User interfaces and may include the features described above in connection with user interfaces respectively. User interface may also include information inquiring whether the consumer read Eric Greenwood s reviews before making purchases at the Better Purchase.

The consumer may access the shop screen from user interface and the lifestyle application may display user interface of and or user interface of to the consumer. User interfaces and may include the features described above in connection with user interfaces respectively. User interface may also include information stating that the consumer recently bought an item from the Better Purchase and inquiring whether the Better Purchase is the consumer s favorite source for consumer electronics.

Alternatively or additionally the consumer may access the main screen e.g. described above in as shown in user interface of . The consumer may select the Better Purchase store from the favorites section of the main screen as indicated in user interface of and the lifestyle application may display user interface of to the consumer. User interface may display the Better Purchase main screen and may include a wish list button a review button a top items button etc.

In one example user interfaces of may depict information associated with a purchase of dinner from Milton s restaurant. User interface of may display the main screen e.g. described above in to the consumer. The consumer may select the scan and pay button and the lifestyle application may display user interface of to the consumer. User interface may include the features described above in connection with user interface . The consumer may select the scan an item button from user interface and may scan e.g. via user device a QR code or a barcode provided on the receipt from Milton s restaurant as indicated in user interface of .

Once the receipt is scanned the consumer may use a mechanism e.g. a slider bar to add a tip to the dinner purchase as indicated in user interface of . After adding the tip the consumer may select a pay now button from user interface and the lifestyle application may submit a payment for the dinner to Milton s restaurant. The lifestyle application may provide user interface of for display to the consumer. User interface may include information about an option to join a loyalty program for Milton s restaurant. The consumer may or may not join the loyalty program. If the consumer elects to join the loyalty program the lifestyle application may display user interface of to the consumer. User interface may indicate that the consumer has successfully joined Milton s rewards program and may provide information regarding the amount of rewards points received by the consumer.

If the consumer selects a Thank You button of user interface the lifestyle application may provide user interface of for display to the consumer. User interface may provide information associated with other offers available from Milton s restaurant. The consumer may access the social screen from user interface and the lifestyle application may display user interface of and or user interface of to the consumer. User interfaces and may include the features described above in connection with user interfaces respectively. User interface may also include information inquiring whether Milton s restaurant is the consumer s favorite place for business dinners.

The consumer may access the shop screen from user interface and the lifestyle application may display user interface of and or user interface of to the consumer. User interfaces and may include the features described above in connection with user interfaces respectively. User interface may also include information stating that the consumer has eaten at Milton s twice in the past month and inquiring whether the Milton s is the consumer s favorite steak and seafood restaurant.

The consumer may navigate to the me screen shown in user interface of . User interface may include the features described above in connection with user interface . User interface may display the dinner purchase from Milton s restaurant in the what s new section. If the consumer selects the dinner purchase the lifestyle application may provide user interface of for display to the consumer. User interface may include a receipt for the purchased dinner including when the dinner was purchased a cost of the dinner a location of Milton s restaurant etc. Alternatively the consumer may access the receipt from the scan and pay screen as shown in user interface of .

The consumer may utilize the main screen e.g. described above in as shown in user interface of to navigate to Milton s restaurant main screen as shown in user interface of . For example the consumer may select the Milton s button from the favorites section of the main screen to navigate to user interface . User interface may include a rewards button for Milton s restaurant. If the consumer selects the reward button the lifestyle application may provide user interface of for display to the consumer. User interface may include information about an option to join a loyalty program for Milton s restaurant. The consumer may or may not join the loyalty program. If the consumer elects to join the loyalty program the lifestyle application may display user interface of to the consumer. User interface may indicate that the consumer has successfully joined Milton s rewards program and may provide information regarding the amount of rewards points received by the consumer.

If the consumer selects a Thank You button of user interface the lifestyle application may provide user interface of for display to the consumer. User interface may provide information associated with other offers available from Milton s restaurant. The consumer may access the shop screen from user interface and the lifestyle application may display user interface of and or user interface of to the consumer. User interfaces and may include the features described above in connection with user interfaces respectively. User interface may also include information stating that the consumer has eaten at Milton s twice in the past month and inquiring whether the Milton s is the consumer s favorite steak and seafood restaurant.

The consumer may access the social screen from user interface and the lifestyle application may display user interface of and or user interface of to the consumer. User interfaces and may include the features described above in connection with user interfaces respectively. User interface may also include information inquiring whether Milton s restaurant is the consumer s favorite place for business dinners.

In one example user interfaces of may depict information associated with a purchase of a dress from a dress store e.g. Huckleberry . User interface of may display the main screen e.g. described above in to the consumer. The consumer may select the scan and pay button and the lifestyle application may display user interface of to the consumer. User interface may include the features described above in connection with user interface . The consumer may select the scan an item button from user interface and may scan e.g. via user device a barcode provided on a dress for sale at Huckleberry.

Once the barcode is scanned the lifestyle application may provide user interface of for display to the consumer. User interface may include information associated with the dress including a description a price a buy now button etc. If the consumer selects the buy now button the lifestyle application may provide user interface of for display to the consumer. User interface may request for whom the dress is being purchased and may provide a list of the consumer s favorite contacts. The consumer may select one of the contacts or may enter information for another contact and the lifestyle application may provide user interface of for display to the consumer. User interface may provide information associated with the dress the selected contact a shipping address etc. and may add a shipping cost to the final price of the dress. If the consumer selects a pay now button of user interface the lifestyle application may provide user interface of for display to the consumer. User interface may provide a receipt for the purchase of the dress and may request whether the consumer wants to notify the selected contact that a surprise is on the way.

If the consumer selects a send notification button of user interface the lifestyle application may provide a notification to a user device of the selected contact as indicated in user interface of . The consumer may navigate to the me screen shown in user interface of . User interface may include the features described above in connection with user interface . User interface may display the dress purchase from Huckleberry in the what s new section. If the consumer selects the dress purchase the lifestyle application may provide user interface of for display to the consumer. User interface may include a receipt for the purchased dress including when the dress was purchased a cost of the dress a location of Huckleberry etc. Alternatively the consumer may access the receipt from the scan and pay screen as shown in user interface of and user interface of .

Alternatively or additionally user interfaces of may depict information associated with the purchase of a dress from Huckleberry. User interface of may display the main screen e.g. described above in to the consumer. The consumer may select Huckleberry from the favorites section of the main screen as shown in user interface of and the lifestyle application may display user interface of to the consumer. User interface may include a points button to show points earned at Huckleberry a map button to provide a map of the area around Huckleberry a directions button to provide directions to Huckleberry a call button to call Huckleberry etc. The consumer may access the social screen from user interface and the lifestyle application may display user interface of and or user interface of to the consumer. User interfaces and may include the features described above in connection with user interfaces respectively. User interface may also include information inquiring whether the consumer read Jenny Baldwin s reviews before making purchases at Huckleberry.

The consumer may access the shop screen from user interface and the lifestyle application may display user interface of and or user interface of to the consumer. User interfaces and may include the features described above in connection with user interfaces respectively. User interface may also include information inquiring whether Huckleberry is the consumer s favorite store to buy dresses.

Although user interfaces depict a variety of information in other implementations user interfaces may depict less information different information differently arranged information and or additional information than depicted in .

As shown in process may include receiving preference demographic identity relationship and location information associated with consumer block and providing the consumer information to lifestyle application platform device s block . For example in an implementation described above in connection with a consumer may provide consumer information to user device . Consumer information may include brand preferences demographic information identity information relationship information etc. associated with the consumer. User device may add information to consumer information such as location information and or capability information associated with user device . User device may provide consumer information to lifestyle application platform .

As further shown in process may include receiving a consumer profile and a single authentication ID for the consumer from the lifestyle application platform device s based on the consumer information block and receiving relevant enterprise notifications reports and or offers from the lifestyle application platform device s based on the consumer profile and or the single authentication ID block . For example in an implementation described above in connection with lifestyle application platform may receive consumer information and may create a consumer profile and a single authentication ID for the consumer based on consumer information . The single authentication ID may include a password a thumbprint a voice command a retinal scan etc. associated with the consumer. Lifestyle application platform may provide the consumer profile and the single authentication ID to user device and user device may receive the consumer profile and the single authentication ID. Lifestyle application platform may generate enterprise information e.g. notifications reports offers etc. for products services and or content provided by the enterprise relevant to the consumer. Lifestyle application platform may provide the relevant enterprise information to user device and user device may receive relevant enterprise information .

Returning to process may include providing relevant notifications reports and offers for display to the consumer block and enabling the consumer to perform a transaction with an enterprise via the lifestyle application platform device s based on the notifications reports and offers block . For example in an implementation described above in connection with user device may display the relevant enterprise information to the consumer. If the consumer selects a coffee shop e.g. the bean from the favorites section displayed by the lifestyle application the consumer may quickly and easily perform a transaction e.g. buy coffee with the coffee shop via the lifestyle application. The lifestyle application e.g. via the user device may provide a transaction request e.g. to buy coffee to the lifestyle application platform and the lifestyle application platform may provide the transaction request to the enterprise device.

As further shown in process may include receiving an updated consumer profile and an enterprise product service and or content based on the transaction block . For example in an implementation described above in connection with the enterprise device may perform the transaction e.g. may sell a cup of coffee to the consumer based on the transaction request and may provide an indication of the transaction performance to the lifestyle application platform. The lifestyle application platform may update the consumer profile based on the transaction e.g. may increase a preference level for the coffee shop and may provide the indication and or the updated consumer profile to the user device. The lifestyle application may display the indication and or the updated consumer profile to the consumer.

Process block may include the process blocks depicted in . As shown in process block may include providing IQ loyalty points proximity to friends and or proximity to the enterprise for display to the consumer block providing recent purchases a main screen a scan and pay screen an explore screen a personal screen and brands for display to the consumer block and or providing a description of the product service and or content for display to the consumer block . For example in an implementation described above in connection with B A B and F the lifestyle application may include a main screen or channel a social screen and a shop screen. The main screen may include an explore button a scan and pay button a me button a social button and a shop button. User interface may provide information associated with consumer s social screen. As shown the social screen may include an image of the consumer or an image selected by the consumer a reviews button a friends nearby button a social IQ button a list of the consumer s friends etc. The near me section of user interface may provide information associated with different products services and or content from enterprises that are physically located near e.g. within a predetermined distance the consumer. User interface may provide information associated with different products services and or content from enterprises that were recently purchased by the consumer. User interface may provide a list of coffees available to the consumer as well the typically ordered coffee.

Process block may include the process blocks depicted in . As shown in process block may include receiving an updated consumer shopping IQ based on the transaction block receiving an updated consumer social IQ based on the transaction block receiving updated consumer preferences based on the transaction block and or receiving an updated consumer wish list based on the transaction block . For example in an implementation described above in connection with D and C user interface may provide information associated with consumer s social screen. The social screen may include an image of the consumer or an image selected by the consumer a reviews button a friends nearby button a social intelligence quotient IQ button a list of the consumer s friends etc. User interface may provide information associated with consumer s shop screen. The shop screen may include an image of the consumer or an image selected by the consumer a restaurants button an events button a shop IQ button a list of offers available from various enterprises e.g. 10 off clothes at a clothing store etc. User interface may display the Better Purchase main screen and may include a wish list button a review button a top items button etc.

Systems and or methods described herein may provide a lifestyle application platform that links identity mobile social location payment and commerce services to anticipate a consumer s needs and to proactively recommend appropriate and customized products services and or content to the consumer. The lifestyle application platform may enable the enterprises to deliver the right products services and or content to consumers may improve ARPU for the enterprises and may lower costs of consumer acquisition and retention. Consumers via the lifestyle application platform may obtain more control over their personal information may receive less unsolicited spam and may be provided with simple and safe access e.g. via a single authentication ID to their favorite brands of products services and or content.

The foregoing description of implementations provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the invention.

For example while series of blocks have been described with regard to the blocks and or the order of the blocks may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel.

It will be apparent that example aspects as described above may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these aspects should not be construed as limiting. Thus the operation and behavior of the aspects were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware could be designed to implement the aspects based on the description herein.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of the possible implementations. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one other claim the disclosure of the possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential to the invention unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the articles a and an are intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with one or more. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

