---

title: Action notification for business applications
abstract: The present disclosure describes methods, systems, and computer program products for generating action notifications for business applications. One computer-implemented method includes receiving notification data from a plurality of data sources; determining, based upon the received notification data, at least one action item to perform with an application on a client device; generating, by a notification engine, an application notification event, wherein the application notification event includes a unified list of at least one determined action item applicable to a user and a particular client device associated with the user; and transmitting the generated application notification event to the client device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08965987&OS=08965987&RS=08965987
owner: SAP AG, a German Corporation
number: 08965987
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20120827
---
An application application software or app is a computer program installed into a native operating system of a computing device to perform a particular function for a user or another application such as entertainment word processing communications image editing network browsing media playback recording and the like. Computing devices typically running applications include smart phones tablet computers notebook computers and desktop computers. In some instances a business application for a mobile electronic device can be connected to a portal system environment. The portal system can provide a secure unified access point often in the form of a web based user interface e.g. a web portal realized using an internet browser on a computing device using various applications. Often a user is not aware of actions that need to be taken in the portal system environment using applications available to the user and or which applications to use to perform required actions. This lack of knowledge affects potential efficiency gains available through the use of a portal.

The present disclosure relates to methods systems and computer readable media for sending notifications with action items for applications. One computer implemented method includes receiving notification data from a plurality of data sources determining based upon the received notification data at least one action item to perform with an application on a client device generating by a notification engine an application notification event wherein the application notification event includes a unified list of at least one determined action item applicable to a user and a particular client device associated with the user and transmitting the generated application notification event to the client device.

Other implementations of this aspect include corresponding computer systems apparatus and computer programs recorded on one or more computer storage devices each configured to perform the actions of the methods. A system of one or more computers can be configured to perform particular operations or actions by virtue of having software firmware hardware or a combination of software firmware or hardware installed on the system that in operation causes the system to perform the actions. One or more computer programs can be configured to perform particular operations or actions by virtue of including instructions that when executed by data processing apparatus cause the apparatus to perform the actions.

The foregoing and other implementations can each optionally include one or more of the following features 

A first aspect combinable with the general implementation includes processing a received application notification event to generate an indication of the at least one determined action item to be performed with the application wherein the indication is displayed on a graphical user interface.

In a second aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects wherein generating the indication includes providing details associated with a particular action item of the at least one determined action item including a URL wherein a selection of the URL launches the application.

In a third aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects wherein the generated indication includes at least one of a pop up balloon a dropdown list or a pop up window.

In a fourth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects wherein the generated indication includes at least one of an SMS message or a calendar reminder message.

In a fifth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects wherein the generated indication includes at least one of audio or video.

A sixth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects includes exposing a particular user s notification feed to a plurality of client devices using various communication protocols wherein each client device can process received application notification events according to client device specific parameters.

In a seventh aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects wherein the notification engine receives input from a suggestion service collecting data from other users having a similar profile as a particular user and the notification engine recommends to the particular user to use a particular application that the other users are using.

In an eighth aspect combinable with any of the previous aspects wherein the plurality of data sources are limited by selecting particular data sources from the plurality of data sources.

The subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in particular implementations so as to realize one or more of the following advantages. With a growing number of applications designed and developed for various mobile platforms users can be notified of required actions associated with applications. Users may also be actively notified that an application is necessary to perform required tasks and or presented with an opportunity to download the required application. Users may also have applications suggested to them to use in order to perform required tasks.

While generally described as computer implemented software embodied on tangible and non transitory media that processes and transforms the respective data some or all of the aspects may be computer implemented methods or further included in respective systems or other devices for performing this described functionality. The details of these and other aspects and embodiments of the present disclosure are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

This specification describes methods systems and computer readable media for providing an application notification service. With a growing number of applications designed and developed for various mobile platforms users often face a general challenge of knowing about required responses to various applications. For example users may be required to launch a particular application to even discover required actions for the particular application as the required actions may be posted within the application. In a case of receiving a request from an employee for example a vacation request a manager may need to launch an approval application to discover the request view and respond to the request. This may not be efficient if the manager is engaged with other projects or work and the manager is not aware a request has been generated to draw the attention of the manager to the particular application. In this scenario the request could be pending for an extended period of time lowering overall operational efficiency. In a second scenario a user may be required to actively install a particular application or have a choice of efficient applications available to fulfill certain responsibilities. The user may not be aware of the required application or all available applications may not make the best use of available resources. This may impact the user s efficiency compared to peers in similar roles.

An application notification engine can be provided to actively push notifications containing action items for and or about applications inform the user of action items requiring a user s attention and provide an efficient way to execute the corresponding action items. At a high level the application notification engine can be incorporated within a portal system which is connected with a client device. The portal system can identify business applications available on a particular client device and generate a record of the available business applications linked to with a unique identifier associated with the particular client device. The portal system can also identify generate and store a record of available business applications not installed on the particular client device. The portal system can receive or retrieve data from the available business applications as well as data related to the available business applications. For example a request may be sent to a business application to form a record of the request within the portal system allowing the portal system to generate application notification events for the business application containing action items and instructions for users related to the business application. The portal system may receive data from multiple business applications and generate application notification events applicable to all the business applications. The application notification events can include action items some of which are applicable to a particular user and one or more of the client devices associated with the user. The action items associated with the application notification events may be indicated with a pop up window dialog box notification indicator or other attention grabbing type of user interface. The user may launch a particular business application associated with the application notification event directly in a pop up window or other associated interface and also have an associated action item automatically opened in the just launched application. This enables efficient interaction with applications

At a high level the portal system can be connected with one or more clients such as the client . For example the portal system can host a portal system that can communicate with the client . The portal system can be displayed as a webpage at the client using a client application at the GUI . The portal system may gather information from business applications and send out application notifications using the portal system . The portal system may receive data from the connected business applications to generate action items in the notifications. For example the portal system can include a notification engine to receive and or retrieve data from a particular business application deployed in various systems. Multiple applications of the various systems can generate data in response to events being created. The generated data can be sent to the portal system for processing and determination of action items to perform with some of the applications on the client . The determined actions can be included in application notifications generated at the notification engine . In addition a suggestion service can provide a higher level notification to the client to insure proper sufficient business applications are available at the client .

In the illustrated implementation of the portal system includes an interface a processor memory the suggestion service and the notification engine . The interface is used by the portal system to communicate with other systems in a client server or other distributed environment including within environment connected to the network e.g. the client as well as other systems communicably coupled to the network . The interface generally includes logic encoded in software and or hardware in a suitable combination and operable to communicate with the network . More specifically the interface may include software supporting one or more communication protocols associated with communications such that the network or the interface hardware is operable to communicate physical signals within and outside of the illustrated environment .

The processor can be any appropriate processing unit or units to enable computation in the portal system . Although illustrated as a single processor in the portal system two or more processors may be used in the portal system according to particular needs desires or particular embodiments of environment . Generally the processor executes instructions and manipulates data to perform the operations of the portal system and specifically the functionality associated with the corresponding notification engine and or suggestion service . In one implementation the server s processor executes the functionality required to receive inbound communications from and send outbound communications to the client as well as the functionality required to perform the operations of the associated notification engine and or suggestion service .

The memory of the illustrated portal system stores at least a database notifications action item instructions user configurations and other data and program instructions. In some implementations including a cloud based system some or all of the memory may be stored remote from the portal system and communicably coupled to the portal system for usage. Specifically the memory can store the database in support of the portal system the notifications generated by the notification engine the action item instructions determined at the application notification module and the user configurations that record at least identification and or configuration settings of client devices connected to the portal system . In some implementations the user configurations can also store a user profile user role and other information about a particular user or users. In some implementations some or all of the elements illustrated within memory may be stored externally to the memory .

At a high level the notification engine can be a framework for integrating information and processes across application boundaries and generating application notifications based on the integrated information and processes of a particular portal system . For example the notification engine can communicate with business applications to enable the display of notifications of action items that a user needs to perform with a particular business application. In some implementations the notification engine can be an extensible framework that polls information from multiple business applications and systems and generates notification event whose associated action items should be displayed to the user. In particular the notification engine may be associated with one or more business processes that communicate with various users applications systems and components to retrieve receive and process events. In some implementations the notification engine may operate in response to and in connection with one or more requests received from an associated client or other remote client to generate notifications . Additionally the notification engine may operate in response to and or in connection with one or more requests received from other applications external to the portal system . For example the operation of the notification engine to generate a notification may be initiated by a request requiring actions from a particular client and a particular application associated with the particular client . In some implementations the notification engine may communicate with one or more of the client applications . In some implementations the client application represents a web based application such as a browser accessed and executed by remote clients using the network e.g. through the Internet or using one or more cloud based services associated with the notification engine .

The notification engine includes an application notification module that enables the notification engine to generate notifications for applications and determine action items associated with the application notification events. The notification engine may include additional modules that are not illustrated in . The application notification module can determine an action item associated with an application notification event the action item including a compilation of instructions information links and other responses determined to reply to various events sent from systems business applications and or data sources. The application notification module is communicatively connected to using the portal system various business applications such as the business applications as well as other enterprise portal related applications databases web content and networking information not illustrated in . The application notification module includes at least a business application identifier a notification generator a notification manager a data receiver a notification transmitter and a portal interface . In some implementations the notification engine can expose user s specific notification feed to numerous clients using different protocols such as REST SOAP among others. Each client may implement the notifications according to the runtime device type platform and user settings.

The business application identifier can identify business applications associated with connected clients . For example when the client connects with the portal system using a secure sign on or other authenticated method the portal system can authenticate the client e.g. allowing the client to access a digital identity and initiate the notification engine . The initiation of the notification engine can retrieve client information on the portal system as well as from the client . The business application identifier can analyze the client e.g. by checking application registry of the operating system and gather information relating to installed available business applications applicable to the digital identity of the client on the portal system . In some implementations the business applications are designed to run on specific operating systems such as IOS ANDROID LINUX UNIX and WINDOWS among others. In some implementations the business application identifier may identify business applications such as sales analysis manager insight electronic medical records fact sheet briefing sales business one interview and other business applications. The business application identifier can obtain files related to the business application and save data related to the business application in database of the memory . The database can include operation parameters data logging files and other data applicable to the operation of the business application as well as the portal system .

The notification generator can process requests from connected business application and determine the content included in the notifications . The generated notifications can be saved in memory . The notification generator can be coupled with the data receiver to obtain data from various data sources. For example the data receiver can receive notification data from a number of data resources including systems applications and enterprise exchange systems. In some implementations the notification data can include approval requests schedule requests meeting requests response requests and other types of requests associated with the specific function of the business applications. For example a sales application may send an order request to a particular user for approval. The data receiver receives the order request from the sales application. The notification generator can use the application notification event data received at the data receiver and determine a response action item to perform with a compatible sales application on the client device of the particular user. The notification generator can further generate and or compile a set of data including application notification event messages a link to open the action item response in the compatible sales application and instructions related to the response. In other implementations many applications may send various requests to the particular user for responses. The notification generator can also produce an application notification event containing action items each action item corresponding to each of the application requests applicable to the particular user on a particular compatible client device associated with the particular user.

The notification generator may include an analysis algorithm to interpret the application notification event data received at the data receiver and to identify the related action item to perform with an application on a client device. For example the application notification event data may include order approval requests handled by sales applications vacation approval requests handled by vacation applications meeting scheduling requests handled by calendar applications travel approval requests handled by travel applications briefing confirmation requests handled by briefing applications and other requests handled by specific applications. The analysis algorithm can recognize corresponding applications for each request and determine action item instructions for users using a corresponding business application on the client device. The notification generator can then compile the determined action item instructions and contents of the application notification event data to form an application notification event message which can include a URL to the business application on the client device for responding to the requests. For example the application notification event message can include a statement describing content of the application notification event data and a selectable item enabling users to launch a corresponding business application with an environment populated by incorporating the action item e.g. taking the user to an action item page window to respond to the request where the action item page window is populated with data associated with action item . The application notification event message can be saved in the notifications in the memory along with the action item instructions .

In some implementations the data receiver operates to retrieve data from various data sources. For example the data receiver can poll purchase orders from a supply chain management system. The retrieved purchase order data can then be used by the notification generator to generate application notification events to users based on for example order statuses approval requests and parameters associated with the approval requests. In other instances the data receiver can retrieve application notification event data from various applications such as multiple vacation request applications of multiple users. The retrieved data can be sent to the notification generator which determines the corresponding users e.g. approvers to these requests and generates a list identifying responding actions approvers and the client device associated with the approvers. The application notification event can be determined based on other information available at the portal system such as the role responsibility rank authority and other request related factors of the corresponding users.

The notification manager can manage the application notification events generated at the notification generator . The notification manager can determine based on the target business application client a required form of application notification event. For example the notification manager can access the user configurations to identify the device type of client . In some implementations the client can be a smartphone. In some implementations the notification manager can format the notifications in a form of an SMS message. In other implementations the notification manager can format the notifications for the device type of client . In addition to determining the format of the notifications the notification manager can manage notifications based on parameters describing time priority importance level application version information operating system platform user authority among others. For example the notification manager can prioritize the notifications that have a shorter deadline or due date notification event list generated at the notification generator . Similarly the notifications responding to requests from a high importance user may be highlighted in the application notification event list. The notification manager can group notifications applicable to the same application or the same operating system platform together. In some implementations the notification manager can filter certain notifications from the application notification event list based on the authority level of the receiving user or client.

The notification transmitter can transmit the notifications to a receiving client such as the client . The notification transmitter may access information of the user configurations at the memory and determine if the notifications are applicable to the business application of the client . In some implementations the notification transmitter may detect the lack of a required business application a newer version of the business application or a different than required version of the business application . The notification transmitter may transmit the notifications along with business application update downgrade information using the portal interface informing the user to update downgrade or to install the required version of the business application.

The portal interface can enable the client to interface with the notification engine using the portal system . For example the portal interface can obtain metadata of the client . The metadata can include parameters describing the role responsibility authority level and other aspects of the client . The metadata can play part in determining actions for the notification generator and allow the notification engine to communicate with the portal system . For example an approval request may be sent to a committee including nine committee members for a democratic vote. The portal interface can integrate the notification engine with and notify all the nine committee members using the portal system . In some implementations the portal interface can operate with the suggestion service to include more notification content using the metadata obtained from the client . For example the suggestion service can use the metadata collected from the client and the user configurations to suggest applications to the client . The application suggestion can be combined with the notifications .

The suggestion service can identify a group of clients i.e. their digital identities sharing certain common features e.g. roles responsibilities job titles customers etc. with the client . The suggestion service can identify the business applications available to and most popular among the group of clients and make suggestions to the client about the business applications that are not used by the client . The suggestions may be sent to the application notification module to create a stand alone application notification event or may be combined with any existing notifications that can use the suggested business application.

The portal system is any server or system that stores manages and executes functionality associated with the notification engine . Additionally the portal system may execute one or more notification engines . In some instances each portal system may store a plurality of various applications not illustrated while in other instances the portal system may be a dedicated server meant to store and execute the notification engine for a particular platform or application and its related functionality. In some instances the portal system may include a web server or be communicably coupled with a web server where one or more of the notification engines associated with the portal system represent web based or web accessible applications accessed and executed through requests and interactions received by the client executing a business application operable to interact with programmed tasks or one or more notification engines .

The portal system can include an electronic computing device operable to receive transmit process store or manage data and information associated with the environment . The portal system illustrated in can be responsible for receiving application related requests from one or more clients as well as any other entity or system interacting with the portal system including desktop or mobile client systems responding to the received requests by processing said requests in the associated notification engine and sending the appropriate responses from the appropriate component back to the requesting client or other requesting system. Components of the portal system can also process and respond to local requests from a user locally accessing the portal system . Accordingly in addition to requests from the client illustrated in requests associated with a particular component may also be sent from internal users external or third party customers and other associated business applications business processes as well as other appropriate entities individuals systems or computers. In some instances the notification engine or the business application may be a web based application executing functionality associated with a networked or cloud based business process.

Referring now to the client illustrated in the client may be any computing device operable to connect to or communicate with the portal system using a wireline or wireless connection directly or using the network or another suitable communication means or channel. In some instances the client may be a part of or associated with a business process involving one or more of a remote developer or user associated with the portal system for example the business application . It will be understood that there may be any number of clients associated with or external to environment . For example while illustrated environment includes a single client alternative implementations of environment may include multiple sellers or customers communicably coupled to one or more of the systems illustrated. In some instances one or more clients may be associated with administrators of the environment and may be capable of accessing and interacting with the settings and operations of one or more portal systems and or other components of the illustrated environment . Additionally there may also be one or more additional clients external to the illustrated portion of environment capable of interacting with the environment using the network .

The illustrated client includes an interface a processor a client application the business application a client notification manager and a memory . The interface is used by the client for communicating with other systems in a distributed environment including within the example environment connected to the network for example the portal system as well as other systems communicably coupled to the network not illustrated . The interface may also be consistent with the above described interface of the portal system or other interfaces within the example environment . The processor may be consistent with the above described processor of the portal system or other processors within the example environment . Specifically the processor executes instructions and manipulates data to perform the operations of the client including the functionality required to send requests to the portal system and to receive and process responses from the portal system . The memory may be consistent with the above described memory of the portal system or other memories within the example environment but storing objects and or data associated with the purposes of the client .

Further the representative client illustrates a GUI applicable to the client in general. The GUI provides a visual interface with at least a portion of the example environment . Generally through the GUI portal system users are provided with an efficient and user friendly presentation of data provided by or communicated within the example environment . For example the GUI may be associated with the client application and used to view navigate and or configure content of the portal system navigation lists and other associated content served by portal system . In some implementations the client application may be used to access various portions of the portal system . In some instances the client application may be an agent or client side version of the portal system or other suitable component of the portal system . In some other implementations the GUI may be associated with the business application when the business application is launched in response to a notification. The GUI may present the information of the business application for viewing and interaction with the notification.

The client notification manager can manage notification indications on the GUI . For example the client notification manager can determine the form of notification presented to the user such as a pop up balloon a list a pop up window message a combination of such and other forms of presentations. In some implementations the user may define what form of presentations to be used by the client notification manager including notification history retaining duration and other parameters. In some implementations the client notification manager can interface with client application to handle notifications sent as SMS messages or calendar reminder messages. In addition to managing notification indications the client notification manager can allow users to define which data source the user prefers to receive notifications from. For example the user may be subject to receiving notification to multiple business applications but preferring only a subset of the multiple business applications. The user can define at the client notification manager to receive notifications only from the subset of the multiple business applications.

As used in this disclosure each client is intended to encompass a personal computer touch screen terminal workstation network computer kiosk wireless data port smart phone personal data assistant PDA one or more processors within these or other devices or any other suitable processing device. For example each client may include a computer that includes an input device such as a keypad touch screen mouse or other device that can accept user information and an output device that conveys information associated with the operation of one or more business applications and or the client itself including digital data visual information or the GUI . Both the input and output device may include fixed or removable storage media such as a magnetic storage media CD ROM or other suitable media to both receive input from and provide output to users of client through the display namely the GUI . As previously stated the client s processor interface and memory may be similar to or different from those described in connection with the other components illustrated in although alternative implementations of one or more of these components may be used as well as implementations where additional components may also be included.

The network may be all or a portion of an enterprise or secured network while in another instance at least a portion of the network may represent a connection to the Internet. In the illustrated example at least a portion of the network includes a portion of a cellular or mobile data network or other network capable of relaying SMS messages. In some instances a portion of the network may be a virtual private network VPN . Further all or a portion of the network can include either a wireline or wireless link. Example wireless links may include 802.11 b g n 802.20 WIMAX and or any other appropriate wireless link. In other words the network encompasses any internal or external network networks sub network or combination thereof operable to facilitate communications between various computing components inside and outside the illustrated environment . The network may communicate with for example Internet Protocol IP packets Frame Relay frames Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM cells voice video data and other suitable information between network addresses. The network may also include one or more local area networks LANs radio access networks RANs metropolitan area networks MANs wide area networks WANs all or a portion of the Internet and or any other communication system or systems at one or more locations.

In some implementations the pop up balloon can include texts or numbers indicating the number or importance of notifications. The pop up balloon may include links to the action item indication list for example in response to a user s selection of the pop up balloon the action item indication list can be presented to the user to enable the user to interact with the related action item indications. The pop up dialog box can include the contents of the associated action item indication in a scaled down size. For example the dialog box can include detailed instructions links e.g. URL to launch the business application in a contextual environment options to ignore or delay the action item and other actions. In some implementations the action item indication associated with the business application can be simultaneously displayed as a pop up balloon and in the action item indication list .

The unified action item indication list can include a list of pending action items and . The pending action items and may be organized based on reception time priority deadline or other criteria. User may define the presentation criteria in the unified action item indication list . The pending action items and can include a context overlaid link to launch the corresponding business application with a state to respond to the associated action item indications. For example the pending action item can include a detail description of a pending approval request with a context overlaid link to launch the business application . As the user selects the context overlaid link the business application can be launched with a page associated with the approval request. The page can display detailed information of the approval request. The user can have options to respond to the request approve the request decline the request or respond at a different time.

The pop up window can show detailed action item indication information similar to the unified action item indication list that jumps to the top of the example user interface as a modal dialog requiring the user to respond immediately. For example the pop up window can be used for high priority applications that include time sensitive materials. The pop up window can include action item descriptions and action item options such as a view button to launch the corresponding application and view the action item an approve button to approve the request and have the application launched in the background a decline button to decline the request and have the application launched in the background and a cancel button to close the pop up window . Although some action item indication examples are illustrated in the example user interface other action item indications including specific action items can be used. For example the action item indication can include an audio message and receive audio instructions from the user. Other methods are possible.

At a client device is connected with a portal system. For example the client device can enable a user to sign onto a portal system using verified credentials to send and retrieve metadata about the user. From method proceeds to .

At the user can select which data source to receive notifications events from. For example the user may have multiple business applications on the client device and would want to receive application notification events for a subset of the multiple business applications. The user can select which business applications to receive application notification events from. From method proceeds to .

At the client device receives application notification events from the selected data sources. From method proceeds to .

At the received application notification events can generate action item indications on the user device. The action item indications can provide details associated with a particular action item including a URL to launch an application associated with the action item notification. In some implementations the action item indication includes a pop up balloon an action item indication list a pop up window an SMS message a calendar reminder message or other forms of indications. From method proceeds to .

At the user can in response to the action item indication select and open the received action item indication to view the notification content. For example the action item indication may be presented as a new item in a unified application notification event list. The user can open the new item to view detailed action item information instructions etc. For example the user can review an action item instruction for the application associated with the action item indication. The action item instruction can include links to applications web contents and sources. From method proceeds to .

At the user can select the action item instruction to launch the application and perform the action item noted in the action item indication. In some implementations the application notification event includes a unified list of at least one determined action item applicable to a user and a particular client device associated with the user. From method stops.

At a portal system can communicate with various sources and receive data from these sources. For example the portal system can be connected with different business applications of which users can generate requests and events to be processed by the portal system. The portal system can receive or retrieve requests or action items from the business applications. From method proceeds to .

At the portal system receives user information. The user information can include metadata of the user as well as configuration information of the user s client devices. From method proceeds to .

At a portal system notification engine can determine an action item to perform with an application on the user s client device based on the received user information and the requests. From method proceeds to .

At the notification engine can generate an application notification event including a unified list of action items that are determined based on the received information. The action items can include links to respond to the requests and detailed information about the requests. From method proceeds to .

At the portal system transmits the application notification event to a client device. The client device may include its own notification manager to manage the list of unified application notification events. In some implementations the application notification events can include suggestions to update downgrade applications or install new applications. The suggestions can be provided by a service analyzing the role and other role based parameters of the client device user. From method proceeds to .

At the portal system can expose the notification feed to multiple client devices. Each of the multiple client devices can have their own notification manager to filter and select appropriate application notification events from the application notification event list. From method proceeds to .

At indications of action items are generated at the client devices. The action item indications can be configured based on user preference and or settings on the client device. From method proceeds to .

At action item details can be provided to the user at launch of the applications associated with the application notification events. For example the applications can be launched in a state highlighting or presenting actions items associated with the application notification events. From method stops.

Implementations of the subject matter and the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry in tangibly embodied computer software or firmware in computer hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. Implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer programs i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a tangible non transitory computer storage medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. Alternatively or in addition the program instructions can be encoded on an artificially generated propagated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus for execution by a data processing apparatus. The computer storage medium can be a machine readable storage device a machine readable storage substrate a random or serial access memory device or a combination of one or more of them.

The term data processing apparatus refers to data processing hardware and encompasses all kinds of apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer or multiple processors or computers. The apparatus can also be or further include special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a central processing unit CPU a FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit . In some implementations the data processing apparatus and or special purpose logic circuitry may be hardware based and or software based. The apparatus can optionally include code that creates an execution environment for computer programs e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system or a combination of one or more of them. The present disclosure contemplates the use of data processing apparatuses with or without conventional operating systems for example LINUX UNIX WINDOWS MAC OS ANDROID IOS or any other suitable conventional operating system.

A computer program which may also be referred to or described as a program software a software application a module a software module a script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages or declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code. A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network. While portions of the programs illustrated in the various figures are illustrated as individual modules that implement the various features and functionality through various objects methods or other processes the programs may instead include a number of sub modules third party services components libraries and such as appropriate. Conversely the features and functionality of various components can be combined into single components as appropriate.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable computers executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. a CPU a FPGA or an ASIC.

Computers suitable for the execution of a computer program by way of example can be based on general or special purpose microprocessors or both or any other kind of CPU. Generally a CPU will receive instructions and data from a read only memory ROM or a random access memory RAM or both. The essential elements of a computer are a CPU for performing or executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Moreover a computer can be embedded in another device e.g. a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio or video player a game console a global positioning system GPS receiver or a portable storage device e.g. a universal serial bus USB flash drive to name just a few.

Computer readable media transitory or non transitory as appropriate suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM DVD R DVD RAM and DVD ROM disks. The memory may store various objects or data including caches classes frameworks applications backup data jobs web pages web page templates database tables repositories storing business and or dynamic information and any other appropriate information including any parameters variables algorithms instructions rules constraints or references thereto. Additionally the memory may include any other appropriate data such as logs policies security or access data reporting files as well as others. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube LCD liquid crystal display or plasma monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse trackball or track pad by which the user can provide input to the computer. Input may also be provided to the computer using a touchscreen such as a tablet computer surface with pressure sensitivity a multi touch screen using capacitive or electric sensing or other type of touchscreen. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input. In addition a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user for example by sending web pages to a web browser on a user s client device in response to requests received from the web browser.

The term graphical user interface or GUI may be used in the singular or the plural to describe one or more graphical user interfaces and each of the displays of a particular graphical user interface. Therefore a GUI may represent any graphical user interface including but not limited to a web browser a touch screen or a command line interface CLI that processes information and efficiently presents the information results to the user. In general a GUI may include a plurality of user interface UI elements some or all associated with a web browser such as interactive fields pull down lists and buttons operable by the business suite user. These and other UI elements may be related to or represent the functions of the web browser.

Implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of wireline and or wireless digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a radio access network RAN a metropolitan area network MAN a wide area network WAN Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WIMAX a wireless local area network WLAN using for example 802.11 a b g n and or 802.20 all or a portion of the Internet and or any other communication system or systems at one or more locations. The network may communicate with for example Internet Protocol IP packets Frame Relay frames Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM cells voice video data and or other suitable information between network addresses.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

While this specification contains many specific implementation details these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of any invention or on the scope of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features that may be specific to particular implementations of particular inventions. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate implementations can also be implemented in combination in a single implementation. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single implementation can also be implemented in multiple implementations separately or in any suitable sub combination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a sub combination or variation of a sub combination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system modules and components in the implementations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all implementations and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Particular implementations of the subject matter have been described. Other implementations alterations and permutations of the described implementations are within the scope of the following claims as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results.

Accordingly the above description of example implementations does not define or constrain this disclosure. Other changes substitutions and alterations are also possible without departing from the spirit and scope of this disclosure.

