---

title: Multiple secure elements in mobile electronic device with near field communication capability
abstract: A method of managing data communication network inventory is provided. The method comprises analyzing a plurality of separate data stores, the data stores comprising information about trouble tickets, change requests, and scheduled maintenance, where the analysis is conducted with reference to network inventory items. An integrated data store structured according to network inventory items is built, comprising trouble ticket information, change request information, and scheduled maintenance associated with the network inventory items, where the network inventory items comprise one or more port interfaces. A selection of a network inventory item is received. Filtered information is retrieved from the integrated data store summarizing the trouble ticket information, the change request information, and the scheduled maintenance related to the selected network inventory item. The filtered information is transmitted.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08712407&OS=08712407&RS=08712407
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 08712407
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120405
---
Near field communication NFC refers to short range wireless radio communication between two devices typically occurring over distances of no more than a few centimeters. NFC radio communication may be used for financial transactions such as completing a payment transaction from a mobile phone encapsulating an electronic credit card and or debit card to a point of sale POS terminal. NFC radio communication may be used to provide personal identification and or to electronically access physical spaces for example to provide a student identification an employee identification a medical identification to activate a badge reader to unlock an entry door to access a hotel room to access a rental car. NFC radio communication may be used for communicating content such as reading explanatory information from an NFC tag coupled to a placard in a museum or in a retail display.

A secure element SE is a combination of hardware software interfaces and protocols that enable the secure storage and usage of credentials for payments authentication and other services. Secure elements assure security in these service processes. Secure elements may reside on an embedded hardware semiconductor chip in a mobile device in a removable memory card that holds an embedded chip which can be used as a secure element and in a universal integrated circuit card UICC which is typically used to authenticate a mobile device to a mobile network.

In an embodiment a system on a mobile phone for selecting between a plurality of secure elements concurrently present on the mobile phone is disclosed where the selected secure element is used for wireless payment. The system comprises a first virtual processor a second virtual processor that implements a trusted security zone a near field communication transceiver and a plurality of secure elements. The first virtual processor comprises an application for selecting a secure element from the plurality of secure elements. The second virtual processor comprises a switching application stored in the trusted security zone where the switching application couples the near field communication transceiver to a single secure element based on the selection received from the application stored in the first virtual processor.

In an embodiment a method of secure element selection for wireless payment and access control is disclosed. The method comprises selecting in a first application on a mobile device a secure element from a plurality of secure elements concurrently present on the mobile device. The selection of the secure element from the first application is sent to a second application where the second application is stored in a trusted security zone on the mobile device. A near field communication transceiver in the mobile device is coupled to the selected secure element where switching logic in the second application executes to perform the coupling. A wireless link between the near field communication transceiver in the mobile device and an external near field communication device is established where the wireless link enables communication between the selected secure element and the external near field communication device.

In an embodiment a method of secure element selection for wireless payment and access control is disclosed. The method comprises inserting a removable card into a slot in a mobile device where the card comprises a secure element. The secure element on the removable card inserted in the mobile device is automatically selected for use by applications on the mobile device requiring a secure element where the selection is performed by an application stored in a trusted security zone on the mobile device. A near field communication transceiver in the mobile device is coupled to the selected secure element on the removable card where switching logic in the application stored in the trusted security zone on the mobile device executes to perform the coupling. A wireless link between the near field communication transceiver in the mobile device and an external near field communication device is established where the wireless link enables communication between the selected secure element on the removable card and the external near field communication device.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

Near field communication NFC allows for transactions data exchange and wireless connections between two devices in proximity to each other. Technology based on near field communication specifications may be used in a mobile phone or similar mobile device to enable users to make mobile payments with the mobile phone. A secure element SE component in the mobile phone is designed to only allow trusted programs on the secure element itself access to the data and payment credentials stored therein. Due to the linked nature of the secure element and the near field communication transceiver in the mobile phone only one secure element is typically supported in the mobile phone.

The present disclosure teaches a system and method for secure element selection for wireless payment and access control. The system provides the ability to reconfigure the secure element selection while still using standard near field communication and secure element components. This is accomplished through a switching application located in a trusted security zone on a mobile device comprising a plurality of secure elements. The switching application supports selection rules such as location based selection user selection and selection control by an application such as an electronic wallet. The selection rules may result in the switching application automatically coupling a selected secure element to a near field communication transceiver in the mobile device or alternatively to receive a selection from a user or application on the device and coupling the received secure element selection to the near field communication transceiver.

In an embodiment a trusted security zone provides chipsets with a hardware root of trust a secure execution environment for applications and secure access to peripherals. A hardware root of trust means the chipset should only execute programs intended by the device manufacturer or vendor and resists software and physical attacks and therefore remains trusted to provide the intended level of security. The chipset architecture is designed to promote a programmable environment that allows the confidentiality and integrity of assets to be protected from specific attacks. Trusted security zone capabilities are becoming mainstream features in mobile device chipsets. Providing the trusted security zone in the main mobile device chipset and protecting the hardware root of trust removes the need for separate secure hardware to authenticate the device or user. To ensure the integrity of the applications requiring trusted data such as a mobile financial services application the trusted security zone also provides the secure execution environment where only trusted applications can operate safe from attacks. Security is further promoted by restricting access of non trusted applications to peripherals such as data inputs and data outputs while a trusted application is running in the secure execution environment.

A complete Trusted Execution Environment TEE may be implemented through the use of the trusted security zone hardware and software architecture. The Trusted Execution Environment is an execution environment that is parallel to the execution environment of the main mobile device operating system. Through standardization of application programming interfaces APIs the Trusted Execution Environment becomes a place to which scalable deployment of secure services can be targeted. A device which has a chipset that has a Trusted Execution Environment on it may exist in a trusted services environment where devices in the trusted services environment are trusted and protected against attacks. The Trusted Execution Environment can be implemented on mobile phones and tablets as well as extending to other trusted devices such as sensors medical devices point of sale terminals industrial automation handheld terminals automotive etc.

The trusted security zone may be implemented by partitioning all of the hardware and software resources of the mobile device into two partitions a secure partition and a normal partition. In some contexts the secure partition may be referred to as a secure world or a secure execution world and the normal partition may be referred to as a non secure world or a non secure execution world. Placing sensitive resources in the secure partition can protect against possible attacks on those resources. For example resources such as trusted software applications may run in the secure partition and have access to hardware peripherals such as a touchscreen or a secure location in memory. Less secure peripherals such as wireless radios may be disabled completely while the secure partition is being accessed while other peripherals may only be accessed from the secure partition. While the secure partition is being accessed through the Trusted Execution environment the main mobile operating system in the normal partition is suspended and applications in the normal partition are prevented from accessing the secure peripherals and data. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from breaking the trust of the device.

The trusted security zone may be implemented by partitioning the hardware and software resources to exist in a secure subsystem which is not accessible to components outside the secure subsystem. The trusted security zone is built into the processor architecture through hardware logic present in the trusted security zone which enables a perimeter boundary between the secure partition and the normal partition. Software architecture to support the secure partition may be provided through a dedicated secure kernel running trusted applications. Trusted applications are independent secure applications which can be accessed by normal applications through an application programming interface in the Trusted Execution Environment on a chipset that utilizes the trusted security zone.

In an embodiment the normal partition applications may run on a first virtual processor and the secure partition applications run on a second virtual processor. Both virtual processors may run on a single physical processor executing in a time sliced fashion removing the need for a dedicated physical security processor. Time sliced execution comprises switching contexts between the two virtual processors to share processor resources based on tightly controlled mechanisms such as secure software instructions or hardware exceptions. The context of the currently running virtual processor is saved the context of the virtual processor being switched to is restored and processing is restarted in the restored virtual processor. Time sliced execution protects the trusted security zone by stopping the execution of the normal partition while the secure partition is executing.

The two virtual processors may context switch via a processor mode called monitor mode when changing the currently running virtual processor. The mechanisms by which the processor can enter monitor mode from the normal partition are tightly controlled. The entry to monitor mode can be triggered by software executing a dedicated instruction the Secure Monitor Call SMC instruction or by a subset of the hardware exception mechanisms such as hardware interrupts which can be configured to cause the processor to switch into monitor mode. The software that executes within monitor mode then saves the context of the running virtual processor and switches to the secure virtual processor.

The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system that is not accessible to the mobile device users. For security purposes the trusted security zone is not open to users for installing applications which means users do not have access to install applications in the trusted security zone. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from executing powerful instructions reserved to the trusted security zone and thus preserves the trust of the device. The security of the system is achieved at least in part by partitioning the hardware and software resources of the mobile phone so they exist in one of two partitions the secure partition for the security subsystem and the normal partition for everything else. Placing the trusted security zone in the secure partition and restricting access from the normal partition protects against software and basic hardware attacks. Hardware logic ensures that no secure partition resources can be accessed by the normal partition components or applications. A dedicated secure partition operating system runs in a virtual processor separate from the normal partition operating system that likewise executes in its own virtual processor. Users may install applications on the mobile device which may execute in the normal partition operating system described above. The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system for the secure partition that is installed by the mobile device manufacturer or vendor and users are not able to install new applications in or alter the contents of the trusted security zone.

Secure elements are a combination of hardware and software that enable secure storage and usage of credentials and data for electronic payments authentication and other services. Secure elements may be dedicated embedded hardware in the mobile device. Alternatively secure elements may be removable cards such as memory cards or subscriber identity module SIM cards which may be inserted into slots in the mobile device. Both embedded and removable secure elements provide the same secure storage for data and programs for implementing mobile financial services. Supported services may include mobile banking and payment services electronic ticketing electronic identification and other wireless mobile transactions needing secure interfaces. The switching application in the trusted security zone provides the flexibility for the mobile device to support multiple secure elements while maintaining the security of standard near field communication and secure element components.

Turning now to a system on a mobile phone for selecting between a plurality of secure elements concurrently present on the mobile phone is described where the selected secure element is used for wireless payment and for other near field communication transactions. The system comprises a first virtual processor a second virtual processor a near field communication transceiver a plurality of secure elements and a near field communication antenna . The first virtual processor comprises an application used to make a selection of a secure element to be used for wireless payment. The second virtual processor comprises an application stored in a trusted security zone where the trusted security zone is implemented by partitioning the hardware and software resources to exist in a secure subsystem which are not accessible to components outside the secure subsystem. In an embodiment the system can alternatively be implemented on other mobile devices such as a personal digital assistant a media player or other mobile devices.

The near field communication transceiver allows for secure transactions data exchange and wireless connections with other near field communication devices enabling communication with devices in close proximity. The plurality of secure elements comprise data and programs in a specialized semiconductor chip that is designed to thwart attempts to reverse engineer the secure element or to physically slice and examine the secure element under a microscope. The secure elements may store credentials and data used for mobile financial services identification documents and electronic ticketing accessible only to trusted programs stored on the secure element itself.

In an embodiment the switching application couples the near field communication transceiver to a single secure element based on a selection received from the application stored in the first virtual processor . For example the first application may be an electronic wallet application selecting a secure element containing credentials and account information for a credit card to be used for a mobile payment. The electronic wallet application sends the selection of the secure element to the switching application in the trusted security zone of the second virtual processor . The switching application receives the selection and couples the selected secure element to the near field communication transceiver . The mobile phone is now ready to establish a near field communication link through the near field antenna with an external device such as a contactless point of sale terminal and make a secure mobile payment using the credit card credentials from the selected secure element . In an embodiment the near field communication antenna is built in to the near field communication transceiver .

In an embodiment the switching application controls a hardware switch to couple the near field communication transceiver to the selected secure element . The hardware switch may be electronic or electromechanical. In an embodiment the secure flow of information between the secure element the near field communication transceiver and the external near field communication device does not pass through the switching application maintaining the security chain for the secure mobile transaction.

In an embodiment the trusted security zone utilizes security extensions implemented in Advanced Reduced Instruction Set Computer Machine ARM architecture. ARM processors run rich operating systems and applications while providing a low power design suitable for high performance but power efficient mobile phones. The trusted security zone technology is tightly integrated with the ARM processor in a system wide approach to security suitable for applications such as secure mobile payments. The trusted security zone is built into the processor architecture and may be provided through a dedicated secure kernel running independent secure applications which can be accessed by normal applications through the trusted security zone application programming interface API .

In an embodiment the plurality of secure elements comprises memory cards with a secure element component subscriber identity module SIM cards with a secure element component and embedded secure element chips. Memory cards may be used in a mobile phone to provide storage space for applications and data extending the memory built into the mobile phone. Memory cards with an embedded secure element added provide a flexible means to support secure elements from a plurality of sources such as financial institutions or large retail chains. Removable memory cards with an embedded secure element also allow switching between secure element providers as desired decoupling the secure element and its embedded applications from the mobile phone. In some embodiments the memory card may include an NFC transceiver in addition to the secure element allowing secure mobile payment support for mobile phones which may not have originally been built with the functionality.

Subscriber identity module cards have been used typically to authenticate a user in a mobile network. Similar to the memory card model an embedded secure element adds secure element support to subscriber identity module cards. An embedded chip is a security component embedded in a mobile phone at the time of manufacturing which is capable of handling and storing information in a secure manner. Embedded secure elements when combined with a near field communication transceiver allow secure mobile transactions with the mobile phone hardware without the need for additional cards.

In an embodiment the application stored in the first virtual processor is one of an electronic wallet application a ticketing application or a secure identification application. An electronic wallet application allows users to make electronic commerce transactions quickly and securely utilizing stored credentials and financial information on the mobile phone. A ticketing application allows users to order pay for and validate tickets using their mobile phone. Examples include mass transit tickets such as bus rail and subway tickets movie tickets and event tickets. A secure identification application may use the mobile phone in place of employee identification badges or a student identification card or as a key card for a hotel room.

In an embodiment the near field communication transceiver is coupled to the selected secure element via the Single Wire Protocol SWP . The single wire protocol is a specification by the European Telecommunications Standards Institute ETSI for a single wire connection between the subscriber identity module SIM card and the near field communication transceiver in a mobile phone. The single wire protocol interface is a bit oriented point to point communication protocol based on the transmission of digital information in full duplex mode.

In an embodiment the first virtual processor and the second virtual processor execute in a time sliced fashion. The security of the system is achieved by partitioning the hardware and software resources of the mobile phone so they exist in one of two worlds a normal world running on the first virtual processor and the secure world running on the second virtual processor . Both virtual processors may run on a single physical processor to safely and efficiently execute code in a time sliced fashion removing the need for a dedicated physical security processor. Time sliced execution comprises switching contexts between the two virtual processors to share processor resources based on tightly controlled mechanisms such as secure software instructions or hardware exceptions. The state of the currently running virtual processor is saved and the state of the virtual processor being switched to is restored and processing is restarted in the restored virtual processor.

Turning now to a method of secure element selection for wireless payment and access control is described. At block a secure element is selected in a first application on a mobile device from a plurality of secure elements concurrently present on the mobile device. The first application may utilize the secure element to perform its functionality such as a banking application accessing the secure element to display balance information to the mobile phone user. At block the selection of the secure element from the first application is sent to a second application where the second application is stored in a trusted security zone on the mobile device. The second application in the trusted security zone may interface directly with the selected secure element whereas the first application residing in the normal application space interfaces with the secure element through other trusted applications.

At block a near field communication transceiver in the mobile device is coupled to the selected secure element where switching logic in the second application executes to perform the coupling. The second application comprises switching logic capable of coupling the selected secure element with the near field communication transceiver in the mobile device. Because the second application resides in the trusted security zone it can support interaction with the secure elements without impeding the security chain required by mobile financial services standards. At block a wireless link is established between the near field communication transceiver in the mobile device and an external near field communication device where the wireless link enables communication between the selected secure element and the external near field communication device. The coupling of the selected secure element and the near field communication transceiver in the mobile device allows for the communication path to the external near field communication device. In an embodiment the coupling comprises changing the state of a hardware switch to couple the near field communication transceiver to the selected secure element. To accommodate the timing specifications for initiating a near field communication session this coupling is performed prior to establishing the wireless link with the external near field communications device. Once the wireless link is established communication between the selected secure element and the external near field communication device is enabled.

In an embodiment the first application on the mobile device is an electronic wallet application and the selected secure element contains credentials which may be used for payments authentication and other mobile financial services. An electronic wallet application allows users to make electronic commerce transactions quickly and securely utilizing stored credentials and financial information on the mobile phone. The credentials enabling the mobile financial services are stored in the selected secure element and the electronic wallet application has appropriate access rights to initiate the selection through the second application in the trusted security zone.

In an embodiment the switching logic in the second application comprises selection rules used to determine the secure element to be coupled to the near field communication transceiver. Selection rules may allow the second application to automatically select a secure element based on predefined conditions being present on the mobile phone. Selection rules may also provide a decision tree for the second application to follow when making a secure element selection. In an embodiment the selection rules comprise user selection electronic wallet selection and location based selection rules. Location based selection may recognize when you arrive at a mass transit station and select the secure element containing your mass transit ticket credentials. An electronic wallet may select the secure element based on the last account accessed in the electronic wallet. Alternatively the user may know they want to utilize an account stored on the secure element on the subscriber identity module and may select that secure element directly from a user interface.

In an embodiment the trusted security zone runs a separate operating system that is not accessible to the mobile device users. The security of the system is achieved at least in part by partitioning the hardware and software resources of the mobile phone so they exist in one of two worlds the secure world for the security subsystem and the normal world for everything else. Hardware logic ensures that no secure world resources can be accessed by the normal world components. A dedicated secure world operating system runs in a virtual processor separate from the normal world operating system that likewise executes in its own virtual processor. In an embodiment the applications stored in the trusted security zone are installed by the mobile device vendor or manufacturer. For security purposes the trusted security zone is not open to users for installing applications. Users may install applications on the mobile device which may execute in the normal world operating system described above. The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system for the secure world that is installed by the mobile device manufacturer or vendor and users are not able to install new applications in or alter the contents of the trusted security zone.

In an embodiment the near field communication transceiver is coupled to the selected secure element via the Single Wire Protocol SWP . The Single Wire Protocol provides a well defined secure interface between the near field communication transceiver and the selected secure element. In an embodiment the switching logic in the second application is transparent to the near field communication and secure element components. Due to the timing constraints in the specification for near field communication for example possibly with a response expected within 20 ms the switching logic may not interfere with the communication between the near field communication transceiver and the selected secure element. To support this execution of the switching logic is separate from the initiation of the near field communication connection. The second application executes the switching logic and couples the near field communication transceiver and the selected secure element prior to the initiation of the near field communication connection. In this manner when the near field communication connection is established the switching has already taken place and is transparent to the components involved. In an embodiment the switching logic in the second application does not impede the near field communication security chain. The second application resides in the trusted security zone and executes in advance of initiating a near field communication connection allowing the switching logic to complete the coupling without impeding the security requirements of the near field communication specification.

Turning now to a method of secure element selection for wireless payment and access control is described. At block a removable card is inserted into a slot in a mobile device where the card comprises a secure element. Mobile devices commonly support slots for memory cards and subscriber identity module cards. A secure element may be embedded in a removable card using a standard supported slot to add secure functionality to the mobile device. At block the secure element on the removable card is automatically selected for use by applications that employ a secure element where the selection is performed by an application stored in a trusted security zone on the mobile device. The application in the trusted security zone automatically detects the presence of the secure element when the removable card is inserted and executes logic to make the secure element available to other applications on the mobile device.

In an embodiment the application that selects the secure element from a plurality of secure elements available in the mobile phone or other portable electronic device determines selection based at least in part on prioritization among the available secure elements. For example the application may first check to see if a removable card is present. If such a removable card having a secure element is present the application may select a secure element in the removable card without considering other available secure elements. If however there is no removable card present or the present removable card does not have a secure element the application may determine if a secure element associated with a preferred payment institution or payment mechanism is present and if such a secure element is present the application selects that secure element associated with the preferred payment institution or payment mechanism without considering other available secure elements. The prioritization among available secure elements may be defined in the original programming of the selection application. Alternatively the prioritization may be configurable post delivery for example by a user selecting priorities in a dialog box presented by the mobile phone or other portable electronic device. Alternatively in an embodiment a user may have the option of manually selecting a secure element for use.

To maintain security standards the other applications may access the secure element through the application in the trusted security zone rather than having direct access. At block a near field communication transceiver in the mobile device is coupled to the selected secure element on the removable card where switching logic in the application stored in the trusted security zone on the mobile device executes to perform the coupling. The application in the trusted security zone executes switching logic to couple the secure element on the removable card with the near field communication transceiver in the mobile device. Executing the coupling prior to initiating a near field communication connection allows secure access to data and credentials on the secure element when a connection is established.

At block a wireless link is established between the near field communication transceiver in the mobile device and an external near field communication device where the wireless link enables communication between the selected secure element on the removable card and the near field communication device. With the coupling of the near field communication transceiver and the selected secure element communication between the secure element and the external near field communication device is enabled by establishing the wireless near field communication link. This communication allows for the secure near field communication transaction utilizing credentials and data contained in the secure element.

In an embodiment the removable card is a memory card that comprises the secure element. It is common for mobile phones to contain a slot for a memory card to increase available storage beyond what is built in to the phone. Including the secure element as an embedded chip on the memory card extends the use of the standard memory card slot to provide the additional functionality of the secure element. In an embodiment the removable card is a subscriber identity module SIM card that comprises the secure element. A subscriber identity module card is used for authentication to mobile networks using the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM standard. Adding the secure element functionality to the subscriber identity module card provides additional functionality while using the standard card interface.

In an embodiment when the removable card is not inserted into the slot in the mobile device a secure element embedded in the mobile device is selected. The switching logic in the application stored in the trusted security zone may contain selection rules to determine which secure element to select. These selection rules may include detecting if there is a secure element present in the removable card slot and when no card is present to select an embedded secure element. In an embodiment the secure element on the removable card contains credentials which may be used for payments authentication and other mobile financial services. The secure element on the removable card may support the same functionality as a secure element embedded in the mobile phone. The functionality may be dependent on the provider of the card and the planned use. For example the removable card may be supplied by a financial institution and the secure element may comprise credentials for an account and available balance. Alternatively the secure element on the removable card may comprise credentials for a student identification from a community college the student is attending.

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD . The GPS receiver is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

