---

title: Systems and methods for electronic gifting
abstract: Disclosed herein are systems and methods for electronic gifting. In an exemplary gift purchasing method, a control system receives from a purchasing system a gift purchase request that includes a mobile telephone number (or other unique telephonic identifier) associated with a wireless gift recipient system, sends to a payment authorization system a payment authorization request, receives a payment authorization, and notifies the wireless gift recipient system of an electronic gift certificate. In an exemplary gift redemption method, the control system receives a gift redemption request for goods/services from a point-of-sale (POS) system, sends an authentication request addressed to the wireless gift recipient system by way of text message or other format, receives an authentication confirmation originating from the wireless gift recipient, and sends a redemption authorization to the vendor POS system. The control system has modules for conducting a targeted marketing campaign utilizing purchase and/or redemption information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08768787&OS=08768787&RS=08768787
owner: 
number: 08768787
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120814
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 014 824 filed Jan. 16 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 271 343 and claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 880 772 filed Jan. 16 2007 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

The present invention relates generally to systems and methods for electronic gifting. In particular exemplary embodiments of the invention relate to systems and methods for authenticating a gift recipient.

It is known in the art to use gift cards for an increasing variety of events in which gifts are normally exchanged and for an increasing variety of products and services. For the recipient of gift cards keeping track of the cards and tracking the balance of the stored value associated therewith has been arduous. For the retailer issues such as fraud and security management have inhibited the success of gift cards. Moreover as gift card sales increase and more consumers become anonymous retailers are losing the ability to target the marketing at their real customers e.g. recipients of gift cards. This may hinder merchants who might otherwise benefit from the tendency of gift card recipients to spend more money in the store than that which was loaded on the gift card. Additional problem issues include unused gift cards and breakage of gift cards. Although it is known in the art to utilize electronic gifting to manage the stored value conventionally associated with tangible gift cards fraud security management marketing and other issues remain of concern. What is needed in the art are systems and methods for electronic gifting that overcome the disadvantages and shortcomings of the prior art.

The present invention overcomes the disadvantages and shortcomings of the prior art by providing a control system for the gifting of an electronic gift certificate. In an exemplary gift purchasing method of the present invention a control system receives a gift purchase request from a purchaser including a payment amount payment information associated with the purchaser the identity of a vendor and a mobile telephone number or other unique telephonic identifier associated with a wireless gift recipient system e.g. the cell phone of a gift recipient. The gift purchase request can include information such as a purchaser name and recipient information such as a name of the gift recipient. The control system sends to a payment authorization system a payment authorization request including the payment information payment amount and a service fee amount and the control system receives a payment authorization from the payment authorization system and adds the payment amount to a gift account balance. The control system notifies the wireless gift recipient system of the electronic gift certificate preferably by sending a text message addressed to the wireless gift recipient system.

In the exemplary gift redemption method of the present invention the control receives a gift redemption request from a point of sale POS system associated with the vendor of the gift purchase request whereby the gift redemption request includes a redemption amount and the mobile telephone number or other unique telephonic identifier of the gift recipient. The control system identifies whether the gift account balance associated with the mobile telephone number has stored value exceeding that of the redemption amount and if so sends an authentication request to the wireless carrier system that is addressed to the wireless gift recipient system. The authentication request is preferably in an electronic messaging format such as the short messaging service SMS format though it is contemplated that an interactive voice response IVR system can be used to implement authentication. If the control system receives from the wireless carrier system for example an authentication confirmation originating from the wireless gift recipient system the control system sends a redemption authorization to the vendor POS system.

Additional features functions and benefits of the disclosed systems and methods will be apparent from the detailed description which follows particularly when read in conjunction with the accompanying figures corresponding thereto. For example is shall be apparent that the present invention in some embodiments thereof can be provided as at least one computer readable medium collectively storing a program which when executed by a computer system causes the computer system to perform a method.

Referring to a communications network is shown to include a control system constructed in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. The communications network further includes a purchasing system a payment authorization system a plurality of vendor point of sale POS systems a wireless carrier system and a wireless gift recipient system . Each of the control system the purchasing system the payment authorization system the vendor POS systems the wireless carrier system and the wireless gift recipient system shall be discussed below in detail.

The purchasing system preferably includes a personal computer system in communication with the control system via a wired and or wireless network such as the Internet. As will be discussed in further detail below a consumer e.g. a purchaser who desires to purchase an electronic gift certificate e.g. stored value for a gift recipient can do so by interfacing with the purchasing system to send a gift purchase request to the control system . The gift purchase request includes for example a mobile telephone number associated with the gift recipient a gift payment amount purchaser information and payment information associated with the purchaser e.g. a credit card number etc. Though discussion is had herein of a mobile telephone number it shall be understood that the purchase request can include any unique telephonic identifier such as a mobile telephone number etc. suitable for identifying a wireless gift recipient system or other device having telephonic capabilities.

The purchasing system includes a network interface device a permanent and or temporary memory device a display device at least one user input device and an electronic processing device. The purchasing system preferably has resident thereon Microsoft Windows and or another operating system a Web browser such as Microsoft Internet Explorer and other software suitable for implementing the methods described herein.

It is contemplated that the purchasing system can include any device type for interfacing with the control system . For example it is contemplated that the purchasing system can include a portable communications device that communicates with the control system via a protocol corresponding with the device such as the wireless access protocol WAP . It shall be clear to one skilled in the art that the communications network preferably includes more than one purchasing system and that the purchasing systems can have heterogeneous and or homogeneous communication protocols.

It is also contemplated that the purchasing system can be a kiosk positioned in a physical facility such as a retail store and or hospitality provider associated with one of the vendor POS systems etc. The purchasing system can include a customer service computer workstation such that the purchaser can call or otherwise communicate with a customer service operator who will then input information into the purchasing system for the gift purchase request.

Continuing with reference to the control system includes a Web server an application server a database server and a middleware server . The servers each have at least one network interface device temporary and or permanent memory devices an electronic processing device and other hardware suitable for performing the methods discussed herein. Although it is contemplated that each of the servers includes a three gigahertz processor and two gigabytes of random access memory the control system is scalable and the servers can have any hardware suitable for implementing the methods described herein. Moreover any suitable number of servers can be utilized to implement the methods herein described. Each one of the servers preferably has the Microsoft Windows 2003 operating system and or another suitable operating system resident thereon. Software modules are resident on the servers for enabling performance of the methods discussed herein though it is contemplated that the servers can be hard wired with suitable logic. In some embodiments of the invention the control system can include an IVR system which is discussed with further detail below.

The database server preferably utilizes structured query language SQL . The database server can be queried by the application server and has a data store resident thereon that stores data and relationships therebetween. For example the data store includes the payment amount the payment information the identity of the vendor purchaser and gift recipient associated with a purchase the mobile telephone number associated with the wireless gift recipient system the redemption amount status of authorizations status of authentications etc. It is contemplated that the database server can include a stored data map for mapping data elements between the control system and the vendor POS systems . For example the data map can define data internal to the control system to correspond with data acquired at one or more of the POS systems such as item SKU number the price of such item a description of such item etc.

The Web server is in communication with the purchasing system and hosts a secure Web portal whereby the purchaser can provide at least part of the gift purchase request. The portal is accessible over the Internet as a Web portal and or over a mobile network such as a WAP portal. The portal s are preferably database template driven and appear with the identity of a vendor and or merchant associated therewith. A uniform resource locator URL attribute determines that vendor which is to be displayed in connection with portal. In some embodiments of the invention the Web server and portal hosts web services that are provided by the vendor such as by a vendor server not shown and Web site thereof. It is contemplated that the vendor e.g. vendor server can host an interface to the user and control the user s interaction with the vendor driven Web portal. In some embodiments the vendor s server can host the secure Web portal for the purchaser and would communicate with the Web Server using a set of XML based web services.

The application server has resident thereon a credit card processing module in communication with the payment authorization system for facilitating authentication of the payment information. In exemplary embodiments the application server is in communication with the database server for storing retrieving and associating information. The application server preferably incorporates a Microsoft .NET based application that provides the business logic for implementing the methods herein described. The application server is preferably in communication with the middleware server e.g. a Microsoft BizTalk server for managing communications between the application server and heterogeneous vendor POS systems . It is contemplated that the application server can have one or more dedicated communications adapter s for communications with a vendor POS system e.g. the third vendor POS system of without the aid of the middleware server . Thus while a middleware server is shown in it shall be understand that the middleware server is not required. Moreover in embodiments of the invention that include the middleware server it shall be understood that it is not required for the middleware server to have Microsoft BizTalk resident thereon.

The application server preferably has modules resident thereon for short message service SMS and or multimedia messaging service MMS wireless messaging with the wireless carrier system . Also it is contemplated that the application server can include location adapter modules which in cooperation with the carrier system utilize a global positioning system GPS to identify the location of the gift recipient for example to facilitate sending the gift recipient system an electronic coupon for a store when the gift recipient system is physically proximate to such store . The SMS MMS and location adapter modules are preferably distributed for resilience and to facilitate scalability. In some embodiments of the invention it is contemplated that the application server has modules resident thereon for communicating with the IVR system which is discussed with further detail below.

The middleware server preferably has Microsoft BizTalk resident thereon. The middleware server is preferably the communication channel between the application server and heterogeneous vendor POS systems and or enterprise systems .

The application server has point of sale POS communication modules stored thereon for communicating with the vendor POS system via the dedicated adapter and with the vendor POS systems via the middleware server . The application server preferably includes a middleware adapter for communicating with the middleware server using a version of Extensible Markup Language XML formatted for compatibility with the middleware server . It is contemplated that the POS communication modules can be distributed across a plurality of servers for scalability and resilience. The POS communications modules emulate a point of sale vendor system and provide at least a portion of the business logic for balance inquiries credit card authorizations receiving redemption requests and sending redemption authorizations.

It is contemplated that the control system can include an IVR system for interfacing between the application server and the carrier system to implement authentication by IVR. Suitable IVR systems are known in the art and include for example a network interface device a permanent and or temporary memory device an electronic processing device etc. It is preferred that the IVR system include a server with an application programming interface API resident thereon for secure communications with the application server over the Internet and with the carrier system over the Internet. The IVR system is configured for communications with the wireless gift recipient system via the carrier system . The IVR system can have resident thereon publicly available IVR software such as that offered under the general public license by Asterisk and or commercially available IVR systems from manufacturers such as Nortel Avaya Genesis and or Cisco for example.

It is contemplated that the IVR system can be included as part of the wireless carrier system the application server itself one of the vendor POS systems and or as part of another system. As further discussed below it is contemplated that a vendor can select IVR in addition to or as an alternative to text messaging etc. as the vehicle for authentication and the vendor may for business reasons be empowered by the entity operating the control system to provide the specifications for the IVR system . For example the application server can be configured such that to authenticate a gift purchaser the application server sends a message to the IVR system addressed for the wireless gift recipient system to establish a voice call and the gift recipient is asked by an automated voice to authenticate and or deny by pressing keys on the wireless gift recipient system.

Continuing with reference to each of the vendor POS systems preferably includes a middleware adapter e.g. a BizTalk adapter to facilitate communications with the middleware server e.g. a BizTalk server. In this regard the middleware server and adapters therefor enable the control system to communicate with heterogeneous vendor POS systems such as where the first vendor POS system operates on a platform different from that of the second vendor POS system . As shown in it is contemplated that the application server can have software resident thereon and or hardware for direct communications with a vendor POS system such as the vendor POS system

Suitable vendor POS systems are known in the art and can include a plurality of terminals on a network where each terminal includes a network interface device a permanent and or temporary memory device an electronic processing device a display device and at least one user input device such as a keyboard a scanner a pin pad a keypad configured to receive a personal identification number a magnetic credit card swipe etc. As will be discussed further below with reference to the POS systems are configured to have inputted therein a gift redemption request. The vendor POS systems are also configured to receive a gift redemption authorization from the application server .

The payment authorization system communicates with the application server which sends the payment information and the payment amount to the payment authorization system . Suitable payment authorization systems are known in the art and can include for example a network interface device a permanent and or temporary memory device and an electronic processing device. It is preferred that the payment authorization system include a server with a API resident thereon for secure communications with the application server over the Internet. In an exemplary embodiment of the invention the payment authorization system is operated by a third party that manages credit cards bank accounts and or other electronic accounts having stored value.

Continuing with reference to the wireless carrier system is preferably a mobile telephone wireless carrier system configured for telephone data communications such as text messages and includes an SMS network for communicating messages in the SMS and or MMS format. Suitable wireless carrier systems are known in the art and include for example a network interface device a permanent and or temporary memory device an electronic processing device and wireless communications hardware e.g. towers etc. It is preferred that the wireless carrier system include a server with an API resident thereon for secure communications with the application server over the Internet. It is contemplated that the carrier system is configured to utilize GPS and or other location based technology to identify the geographic location of a gift recipient system and communicate such location via the API to the control system for processing in accordance with methods for advertising such as when the control system sends a coupon to the gift recipient system wherein the coupon corresponds to a vendor having a physical store to which the gift recipient system is physically proximate to.

The wireless gift recipient system is preferably a portable communications device e.g. a cellular telephone a personal digital assistant PDA etc. The components of the wireless gift recipient system such as a cellular telephone are well known in the art. It is preferable for the wireless gift recipient system to include keys a display an electronic processor and a graphical user interface GUI for displaying text and graphics and for facilitating input from the gift recipient. The wireless gift recipient system is in communication with the wireless carrier system and is preferably configured for telephone data communications such as text messages including those in the SMS format and or MMS format. The wireless carrier system and the wireless gift recipient system can be configured to communicate in SMS MMS and or any other suitable telephonic messaging format e.g. a messaging service that is compatible at least with wireless cell phones. It is contemplated that the wireless gift recipient system can include hardware suitable for identifying the geographic location of the wireless gift recipient system .

With reference to an exemplary purchasing method and an exemplary redemption method shall be described with further detail. Briefly in the exemplary purchasing method the control system receives a gift purchase request from the purchasing system sends a payment authorization request to the payment authorization system receives a payment authorization from the payment authorization system adds stored value to a new or existing gift account and sends to the wireless carrier system a text message addressed to the wireless gift recipient system . Briefly in the exemplary redemption method the control system receives a gift redemption request from a corresponding one of the vendor POS systems evaluates the gift account balance to confirm sufficient stored value messages for example notice of the gift redemption request to the wireless gift recipient system via the wireless carrier system receives an authentication confirmation from the wireless gift recipient system via the wireless carrier system decrements stored value from the gift account balance and sends a redemption authorization to corresponding one of the vendor POS systems 

Continuing with reference to exemplary purchaser side methods shall now be described with further detail. In step the purchaser uses the purchasing system to connect to a Web portal or WAP portal hosted by the Web server . The Web portal is driven by the template vendor content and other information stored in the database server . As indicated above it is also contemplated that the vendor e.g. a vendor server not shown hosts the web presence and communicates to the control system e.g. the application server via a set of web services hosted by the Web server of the control system .

The application server creates the Web portal from a template suitable for implementing the methods described herein and an instance of the template can be populated for each vendor such that the Web portal appears to the purchaser as being branded by the vendor and customized by the vendor. The control system is scalable to perform the methods described herein for a plurality of heterogeneous vendors e.g. a vendor that sells footwear a vendor that sells musical equipment etc. The vendor specific Web portal is displayed dynamically based on the template and information stored in the database server . From such vendor specific Web portal electronic gift certificates can be purchased for that vendor the balance of gift accounts associated therewith can be checked parties can enroll in vendor specific loyalty programs and the points dollar balances associated with the loyalty programs can be reviewed.

The uniform resource locator URL of the Web portal includes a vendor identification portion. The Web portal utilizes dynamic linking such that the vendor identification portion includes a reference pointer to the vendor content populating the corresponding instance of the template. In the event that the reference pointer to the vendor content is omitted from the URL the purchaser will be directed to a generic Web page associated with the party operating the control system wherein the purchaser can purchase electronic gift certificates for any of the vendors having an association with the control system .

In step the purchaser is provided with the option of buying an electronic gift certificate associated with the vendor viewing and or modifying an existing account associated with the purchaser contacting the party managing the control system following a link to a corporate Web site associated with the party managing the control system etc. If the purchaser selects the option to buy an electronic gift certificate then the purchasing method proceeds at step .

In step of the purchasing method the purchaser uses the purchasing system to indicate whether the purchaser had previously set up a purchaser account with the control system . If the purchaser had not previously created a purchaser account the purchaser can input purchaser information such as the purchaser name purchaser billing address purchaser correspondence address purchaser e mail etc. The purchaser provides information for the gift purchase request which preferably includes the payment information e.g. a purchaser credit card company credit card number security code etc. the name of the gift recipient the gift payment amount e.g. 100.00 U.S. Dollars 10 000 Yen etc. The gift purchase request preferably also includes the identity of the vendor associated therewith. The purchaser information and the gift purchase request are stored in the database server the purchaser is provided with login information for future access e.g. a user name and password and the purchasing method proceeds from step to step .

In step if there is already a purchaser account set up with the control system the purchaser inputs login information at the purchasing system for communication to the Web server and the purchasing method proceeds to step . In step the login information is provided to the application server which queries the database server to check for the purchaser e.g. to authenticate the purchaser and retrieve the purchaser information. In step the purchaser is provided with an opportunity to update the purchaser information. After purchaser authentication the purchasing method proceeds from step to step wherein the purchaser provides information for the gift purchase request e.g. payment information gift payment amount name of the gift recipient etc. The purchasing method proceeds from step to step .

In step the application server queries the database server to identify if the gift recipient is new and if so have the purchaser provide the mobile telephone number of the gift recipient for storage in the database server . If the mobile telephone number of the gift recipient had been provided in a previous transaction the mobile telephone number is retrieved from the database server and the purchaser is provided with the opportunity to update the mobile telephone number. It is contemplated that the purchaser can utilize the purchasing system in step to customize the text and images for the text message to be provided to the wireless gift recipient system . Updates to the purchaser information payment information etc. are stored in the database server and the purchasing method proceeds from step to step .

In step the application server communicates with the payment authorization system via an API to authenticate the purchaser and obtain payment authorization for the gift amount and one or more service fees charged by the entity e.g. company managing the control system . In some embodiments of the invention in step the application server opens a check with a corresponding one of the vendor POS systems such that the corresponding one of the vendor POS system can clear and authenticate payment using its payment authorization systems in place and maintain its own record of the gift purchase request.

If the payment authorization system or corresponding one of the vendor POS system does not authenticate the purchaser and or does not authorize payment the application server receives one or more error message which may be logged in the database server and sent to the Web server for communication to the purchasing system . If the payment authorization system or corresponding one of the vendor POS systems authenticates the purchaser and authorizes payment the application server receives such authentication and authorization and notes same in the database server .

The purchasing method proceeds from step to step where the application server sends notice of the electronic gift certificate to the gift recipient. Although it is contemplated that such notice can be provided by any suitable method known in the art it is preferred that such notice be provided by way of a text message in the SMS format or another messaging format e.g. MMS etc. In the case of an SMS message the SMS messaging adapter of the application server sends such notice over the network via an API to the wireless carrier system corresponding to the mobile telephone number. Such notice includes for example the gift amount the identity of the vendor the identity of the purchaser and potentially an advertisement for the entity managing the control system e.g. a corporate name logo etc. In the case of an SMS message for example such notice may be included in the body of the message while the header of the message might include the mobile telephone number and or a reference pointer associated with the mobile telephone number. The purchasing method proceeds from step to step wherein confirmation of purchase is communicated to the purchasing system via the Web server . In the exemplary embodiment the purchaser is then directed to a Web site operated by the vendor associated with the gift purchase request.

In some exemplary embodiments of the present invention the vendor secures redemption of the electronic gift certificate using a personal identification number PIN . In such circumstances the notice of the electronic gift certificate includes instructions to the gift recipient for creating a PIN with the vendor. It is contemplated that such PIN can be created using a text message a secure WAP portal a Web portal calling a customer service center etc.

Continuing with reference to it is noted that exemplary embodiments provide the user with additional functionality at the Web portal. For example in step the user can click on a link entitled My Account to access the purchaser information stored on the database server . To do so the purchaser provides login information in step and in step the database server is queried. In step the purchaser can preferably also view and modify purchaser information. The purchaser can also view purchasing history which may include a purchase of a first electronic gift certificate that is redeemable with the first vendor POS system a second gift certificate that is redeemable with the second vendor POS system etc.

As another example in step the purchaser clicks on a link entitled Contact Us. In this regard the purchaser is presented with a Web page in step with contact information for the entity managing the control system such as its telephone number e mail address and or contact information for the specific vendor associated with the electronic gift certificate purchased. As yet another example in step the purchaser clicks on a link and in step the purchaser is presented with a corporate Web site that is for the entity managing the control system and that includes corporate information partnering information for vendors etc.

Referring to an exemplary gift redemption method shall now be described with further detail. A gift recipient associated with the wireless gift recipient system shops for goods and or services in a physical store of the vendor associated with the gift purchase request e.g. a physical store associated the first vendor POS system . The recipient selects good services for purchase and has information concerning same entered by a store clerk at the register into the corresponding vendor POS system by suitable means known in the art such as a scanner a keyboard etc. The gift recipient indicates to the store clerk that the gift recipient had previously received an electronic gift certificate and provides the store clerk with the mobile telephone number associated with the wireless gift recipient system . The store clerk then opens a session between the first vendor POS system and the control system to provide the control system with a gift redemption request that includes the mobile telephone number the redemption amount etc. In some embodiments of the invention the gift recipient enters the mobile telephone number directly into the pin pad of a terminal on the vendor POS system . In embodiments of the invention where the gift recipient had created a secure PIN with the vendor the store clerk will collect the PIN from the gift recipient via the pin pad of the first vendor POS system and include the secure PIN in the gift redemption request.

It is contemplated that the exemplary redemption method discussed above can be used in connection with an e commerce Web site of an online merchant. For example a gift recipient can select goods services to purchase from a Web site of the merchant by entering items into a virtual shopping cart. The gift recipient checks out by selecting a payment option corresponding to the control system . The Web site of the online merchant is hosted by a server which communicates with the control system over the Internet. In connection with the gift recipient s entry of information for the purchase e.g. the redemption amount the shipping address etc. the gift recipient is prompted to enter the mobile telephone number of the wireless gift recipient system . In this regard the mobile telephone number and redemption amount can be passed from the hosting server of the online merchant to the control system .

Continuing with reference to in step of the exemplary redemption method the control system receives the redemption request which is associated with the vendor of the first vendor POS system and which includes the mobile telephone number the redemption amount etc. In the case of the vendor POS system the middleware server receives the redemption request and to any extent necessary translates the redemption request into a protocol and or language compatible with the application server . As indicated above however it is contemplated that the vendor POS system can communicate with a dedicated POS adapter of the application server . The application server checks for communications error and if errors are found logs same in the database server in step . If errors are not found and or are reconciled the redemption method proceeds to step .

In step the application server queries the database server with the mobile telephone number to confirm that the database server has resident thereon a stored association between the mobile telephone number and a wireless gift recipient system . Also the application server queries the database server to confirm whether the gift account associated with the mobile telephone number has stored value equal to or exceeding that of the redemption amount. If there are insufficient funds e.g. the redemption amount exceeds the stored value then in step the control system logs an error sends a redemption denial to the first vendor POS system and proceeds to step to receive another potential redemption authorization request. If the redemption amount is equal to or less than the stored value then the redemption method proceeds to step . In some embodiments of the invention should the redemption amount exceed the stored value it is contemplated that the redemption method would also proceed to step enabling the gift recipient to apply the stored value as partial payment for the goods services such that the gift recipient can make payment to the vendor by other means e.g. cash credit card etc. for the remaining payment balance for the goods services.

In step the control system identifies whether the gift recipient is to be authenticated using the secure PIN IVR and or using a text message such as an SMS and or MMS message. If it is identified that authentication is to be implemented by messaging the redemption method proceeds to step from step which is further discussed below.

In step if it is identified that authentication is to be implemented by the secure PIN the redemption method proceeds to step from step . In step the application server generates a PIN request to the vendor POS system . The vendor POS system in turn obtains user input of the PIN on the pin pad and sends same to the control system . The redemption method proceeds from step to step which is discussed below after further discussion of step .

In step if it is identified that authentication is to be implemented by IVR the application server generates a PIN request to the vendor POS system . The vendor POS system in turn obtains user input of the PIN on the pin pad and sends same to the control system . The application server sends a message to the IVR system to establish a voice call to the gift recipient s stored mobile phone number and prompt the gift recipient with a spoken message to depress a particular key on the wireless gift recipient system to provide an authentication confirmation and or authentication failure e.g. to approve the transaction or depress a different key to deny the transaction. The redemption method proceeds from step to step which is discussed below after further discussion of step .

In step where it has been determined that authentication is to be implemented by messaging the application server generates an authentication request that is addressed to the wireless gift recipient system preferably in an SMS format MMS format etc. The authentication request preferably includes a message header designating the mobile telephone number and a message body including content such as the redemption amount identifying indicia of the first vendor and identifying indicia of the entity e.g. company owning the control system . The control system sends the authentication request to the wireless carrier system such as one operated by T Mobile AT T etc. More particularly the wireless carrier system has an API addressable over a network such as the Internet and the authorization request is passed to the API. It is contemplated that the control system can be compatible with multiple wireless carrier systems.

The gift recipient receives the SMS MMS message at the wireless gift recipient system where the content of the message is shown in the display thereof. The gift recipient authenticates herself by replying to the SMS MMS message with an authentication confirmation. In some embodiments the gift recipient may select between an approval and a denial whereby a reply including approval would constitute authentication confirmation and a reply including denial would constitute an authentication failure. The authentication confirmation and or authentication failure is sent from the wireless gift recipient system to the application server via the wireless carrier system and the redemption method proceeds from step to step .

In step the application server determines if it has received an authentication confirmation. If the application server identifies an authentication confirmation then the redemption method proceeds from step to step wherein the stored value of the gift account is debited by the gift redemption amount. In step the application server sends a redemption authorization addressed for the first vendor POS system to the middleware server for communications with the first vendor POS system . The store clerk after receiving the redemption authorization at the first vendor POS system provides the good services to the gift recipient.

If in step the application server identifies an authentication failure then the redemption method proceeds to step wherein the application server identifies how many attempts at authentication have been attempted. If the number of attempts has not exceeded a predetermined number N of attempts then the redemption method proceeds from step to step discussed above. If the number of attempts has exceeded the predetermined number N of attempts then the redemption method proceeds from step to step wherein the application server logs the authentication failure in the database server sends an error to the first vendor POS system and returns to step .

Referring to a method of administering the control system is shown. In step a control system administrator can access an administrative area of the Web portal or another address to configure the control system view and print reports concerning data gathered by the control system control rights and security management of the control system and administer a marketing method which is discussed below with reference to .

Referring to step of the control system administrator selects to configure the control system and the administration method proceeds to step . In step the control system administrator can select to modify the look and feel of the Web portal. In such circumstances the administration method proceeds to step wherein the control system administrator can modify color graphics text and other attributes of the Web portal template vendor content therefor and the SMS MMS message to be displayed by the wireless gift recipient system .

If in step the control system administrator selects to configure attributes related to the POS system such as field mapping and security then the administration method proceeds to step wherein such configuration can be implemented. In step the control system administrator configures settings for communications with the vendor POS systems . Such setting include for example whether the middleware server or dedicated POS adapter of the application server are to be used in connection with a particular one of the vendor POS systems and any sub address for the middleware server . Such settings further include security settings if any for secure communications with the vendor POS systems and for field mapping and transposing data elements of the vendor POS systems to corresponding data elements stored in the database server and vice versa .

If in step the control system administrator selects to configure the business logic of the control system then the administration method proceeds to step wherein such configuration can be implemented. In step the control system administrator configures business rules specific to a vendors business including authentication method e.g. PIN IVR text message etc. payment authorization method e.g. from the application server from the vendor POS system etc. and other vendor configuration specific attributes.

If in step the control system administrator selects to modify rights access to the control system the administration method proceeds from step to step . In step the control system administrator can add administrators delete administrators and modify the existing rights of the existing administrators.

Referring to an exemplary inherency tree is shown for administering rights for the control system . The control system administrator having both read and write access to the control system may grant certain read access to control system accounts receivable personnel for identifying billing information such as the service fees authorized by the payment authorization system . As another example the control system administrator can grant read write access to an administrator for the first vendor such that the vendor can modify the vendor content filling the template and read the accounts payable to the vendor. Similarly rights can be granted to a second vendor administrator a third vendor administrator etc. The first vendor administrator for example can allocate the rights granted to the first vendor administrator to various personnel within the first vendor such as first vendor accounts payable personnel and or a low level first vendor technical administrator.

Continuing with reference to if in step the control system administrator selects to manage reporting features the administration method proceeds to step . In step the control system administrator views and prints customized reports which are preferably statistical in nature. For example for text messages both the delivery and any response thereto had been recorded on a user by user basis and the control system administrator can sort reports based on same. As another example in the context of e mail authentication both an opened e mail using a hidden html call and any response are recorded.

It is contemplated that the control system administrator can view and print reports showing attributes relating to for example the purchase of electronic gift certificates the redemption of electronic gift certificates etc. Custom reports can be generated. Reports can also be created based on the purchaser s name the cell number thereof purchase date vendor payment amount recipient s name the mobile telephone number thereof redemption date transaction type in store and or online transaction amount sku number and price of items in a transaction order etc.

Also it is contemplated that the control system administrator can view and print reports showing attributes relating to the marketing method discussed below with reference to . The marketing method is implemented when in step of the control system administrator selects to do so.

Referring to the marketing method enables the control system administrator to create marketing campaigns view active marketing campaigns delete campaigns and view and print sorted reports concerning campaigns. In exemplary embodiments of the invention a marketing campaign is targeted advertisement for selected purchasers and or gift recipients in which marketing content is communicated to the purchasers and or gift recipients during a period of time.

For example in step of the control system administrator chooses to create a new marketing campaign using a campaign wizard and the marketing method proceeds to step . In step the application server receives inputs from the control system administrator that include the name of the marketing campaign the marketing content e.g. text graphics a WAP link etc. the mobile telephone numbers of those gift recipients to receive the marketing content the begin date or drop date of the marketing campaign and the end date of the marketing campaign. It is contemplated that the mobile telephone numbers can be those selected from the database server that satisfy selected attributes e.g. all gift recipients associated with a vendor who sells shoes all gift recipients associated with a certain geographic area etc. After the marketing campaign has been created the marketing method proceeds to step wherein the marketing campaign is stored in the database server . The marketing method of includes additional steps that shall be further discussed below.

Referring to the application server has stored thereon a listener referenced herein a campaign scheduler which in step continuously polls the database server to identify when a marketing campaign is scheduled to start. When the begin date for a marketing date arrives the campaign scheduler in step sends the marketing content of the marketing campaign to the gift recipient systems via SMS MMS format and or to the purchasing systems via e mail.

The method proceeds from step to step . In step the messages are opened and a delivery confirming signal is generated and received by the control system . In step the user may be presented with the WAP link. From step the method proceeds to step wherein a marketing engine receives delivery indication and in step the confirmation of delivery is stored in the database server . Also from step the method proceeds to step such that the user selectively follows the WAP link. The method proceeds from step to step wherein confirmation of the selection e.g. click thru is sent to the control system for storage in the database server and wherein the user is redirected to a predetermined link. The campaign scheduler preferably processes the information obtained from opened messages message replies e.g. click thru s and any unsubscribe requests.

Referring to the control system administrator can in step select an option to view active marketing campaigns. The marketing method proceeds from step to step wherein the control system administrator can initiate a database query to view marketing campaigns by campaign name by date e.g. begin date end date etc. and by performance e.g. how many gift recipients clicked thru on the WAP Link how many of such gift recipients made a purchase as a result thereof etc. .

In step the control system administrator selects to manage reports in which case the marketing method proceeds from step to step . In step the control system administrator initiates a database query to obtain stored information for printing and or exporting reports concerning past present and or future marketing campaigns. The reporting of step preferably shares one or more modules with the reporting of step .

Also in step the control system administrator can select an option to review a high level report entitled Marketing Schedule at a Glance in which the marketing method proceeds to step from step . In step the control system administrator initiates a database query to populate the high level report. Viewing of the high level report is subject to rights management such that each vendor is preferably prevented from viewing the high level report associated with another vendor.

In some embodiments of the present invention a user of the wireless gift recipient system e.g. mobile device is enabled to redeem stored value e.g. gift certificates using the wireless gift recipient system where the mobile telephone number e.g. individual cell phone number is used as a substantially unique identifier for virtual stored value accounts such as virtual gift certificates generic stored value accounts branded debit accounts and loyalty accounts. The wireless gift recipient system e.g. cell phone can be used to check balances for stored value gift certificates virtual or real and for redemption of the virtual stored value account at the store or on line using the mobile device.

Regarding loyalty accounts for example it is contemplated that the systems and methods herein described can be used in connection with the redemption of stored value such as points that are redeemable for goods services. For example it is contemplated that the vendor can associate value such as vendor points with a recipient thereof by associating such points with the mobile telephone number of the wireless recipient system. In an exemplary points redemption method of the present invention the control system receives a points redemption request from a vendor POS system associated with the vendor whereby the points redemption request includes a redemption amount and the mobile telephone number of the recipient. The control system identifies whether the points balance associated with the mobile telephone number has stored value exceeding that of the redemption amount and if so sends an authentication request to the wireless carrier system that is addressed to a wireless recipient system e.g. cell phone of the recipient. The authentication request is preferably in an electronic messaging format such as the SMS and or MMS format though it may be by way of another vehicle for authentication e.g. PIN IVR etc. If the control system receives from the wireless carrier system an authentication confirmation originating from the wireless recipient system the control system sends a redemption authorization to the vendor POS system.

It is contemplated that some embodiments of the invention can incorporate re gifting capabilities such that the control system provides the gift recipient with the ability to give the electronic gift certificate to another directly and or through a virtual trading post. Moreover the electronic gift certificate can be bought sold and or swapped. It is contemplated that such re gifting can be done by an auction and or a buy now method.

It is also contemplated that virtual stored value filling stations can be provided by way of a kiosk whereby a consumer can feed cash into the kiosk to add funds to the gift account. The kiosk provides means for moving cash into electronically available funds and enabling e commerce without a credit card or bank account. For example such means can be used by minors with cash from odd jobs e.g. babysitting cutting lawns etc. and low wage earners who are paid in cash e.g. restaurant kitchen workers waiters laborers etc.

It will be understood that the embodiments of the present invention described herein are merely exemplary and that a person skilled in the art may make many variations and modifications without departing from the spirit and the scope of the invention. All such variations and modifications including those discussed above are intended to be included within the scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

