---

title: VSS-sensing amplifier
abstract: Some embodiments regard a circuit comprising a memory cell, a first data line, a second data line, a sensing circuit coupled to the first data line and the second data line, a node selectively coupled to at least three voltage sources via at least three respective switches, a fourth switch, and a fifth switch. A first voltage source is configured to supply a retention voltage to the node via a first switch. A second voltage source is configured to supply a ground reference voltage to the node via a second switch, and a third voltage source is configured to supply a reference voltage to the node via a third switch. The fourth switch and fifth switch are configured to receive a respective first control signal and second control signal and to pass a voltage at the node to the respective first data line and second data line.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08619462&OS=08619462&RS=08619462
owner: Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, Ltd.
number: 08619462
owner_city: 
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20120706
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 852 638 filed on Aug. 9 2010 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

VSS sensing amplifiers refer to amplifiers having the bit lines e.g. bit lines BL and BLB charged to the ground reference voltage VSS instead of the supply operation voltage VDD before reading or writing. Charging the bit lines is commonly called pre charging because charging is done before reading or writing. In a conventional VSS sensing amplifier used in embedded Dynamic Random Access Memory eDRAM because the bit lines BL and BLB are pre charged to voltage VSS when the memory cell stores a high logic data e.g. a High the current leaked from the memory cell to a bit line having a low logic level e.g. a Low is large.

Embodiments or examples illustrated in the drawings are disclosed below using specific language. It will nevertheless be understood that the embodiments and examples are not intended to be limiting. Any alterations and modifications in the disclosed embodiments and any further applications of the principles disclosed in this document are contemplated as would normally occur to one of ordinary skill in the pertinent art. Reference numbers may be repeated throughout the embodiments but they do not require that feature s of one embodiment apply to another embodiment even if they share the same reference number.

Some embodiments can have one or a combination of the following advantages and or features. The bit lines are at a specific voltage level e.g. VDD when the memory is in a resting mode e.g. a data retention mode . The retention performance of a sense amplifier used with an eDRAM is improved because the leakage current is reduced as bit lines BL and BLB are raised to about VDD during the retention period. Because the retention period is long up to milliseconds compared to the reading or writing access time which is in the nanosecond range reducing leakage current significantly reduces power consumption that would otherwise incur due to the leakage current.

Transistors P P N and N form the sensing pair SENPAIR for sense amplifier SENAMP. In some embodiments a sensing pair SENPAIR is used for a column of memory cells in a memory array.

Signal RWL controls transistor N while signal ZRWL controls transistor N. Node NVR couples the source drain regions of transistors N N N N N N and N and has a voltage VR not labeled supplied by one of the voltages VREF VSS or VREST through the respective transistors N N or N. For example when transistor N is on voltage VREF is passed to node NVR when transistor N is on voltage VSS is passed to node NVR and when transistor N is on voltage VREST is passed to node NVR etc. In effect depending on the situations and the operating condition of the respective transistors N N or N voltage VR has one of a value VREF VSS or VREST. In some embodiments voltage VREF is about 100 200 mV voltage VDD is about 0.9 V 1.0 V and voltage VREST is about VDD. In some embodiments when memory cell MC is in a retention mode e.g. not in an access mode for reading or writing transistor N is turned on to pass voltage VREST to node NVR which in turn through the respective transistors N and N is passed to the respective bit line BL and bit line BLB. Because in some embodiments voltage VREST is set at VDD the leakage current if any from memory cell MC to any of the bit line BL or BLB is reduced. As a result some embodiments are advantageous over other approaches in which bit lines BL and BLB are set at ground or voltage VSS that results in a higher leakage current. In some embodiments the voltage level of voltage VREST through simulation is set such that the leakage current is minimum. Some embodiments reveal the minimum leakage current when voltage VREST is in the range of about VDD to about VDD. Signals GN GN and GN applied at the gates of the respective transistors N N and N control the respective transistors N N and N. In the illustrative embodiments because transistors N N and N are NMOS signals GN GN and GN are active High e.g. they turn on the respective transistors when their voltage levels are High and turn off the respective transistors when their voltage levels are Low. Transistors N N and N together with the respective voltages VREST VSS and VREF are shown outside of sense amplifier SENAMP in accordance with some embodiments but they can be part of sense amplifier SENAMP in some other embodiments.

Transistor N enables access between sense amplifier SENAMP and memory cell MC. Word line WL controls transistor N to allow access to memory cell MC. When word line WL is de activated e.g. applied with a low logic level e.g. a Low it turns off transistor N and thus electrically disconnects memory cell MC from the bit line being connected to memory cell MC which depending on applications could be a bit line BL or a bit line BLB. In contrast when word line WL is activated e.g. applied with a high logic level e.g. a High it turns on transistor N and thus electrically connects memory cell MC to a bit line e.g. a bit line BL or a bit line BLB. shows bit line BL electrically connected to memory cell MC via transistor N for illustration purposes. Depending on implementations in a memory array some memory cells are connected to a bit line BL while some other memory cells are connected to a bit line BLB. In some embodiments memory cell MC is in the access mode e.g. for reading or writing when word line WL is High and is in the retention mode when word line WL is Low.

In some embodiments memory cell MC is a capacitor storing charges and the Low data stored in memory cell MC indicates a voltage lower than voltage VREF while the High data indicates a voltage higher than voltage VREF. When memory cell MC is connected to a bit line e.g. bit line BL as shown in memory cell MC shares the same charge with bit line BL. Depending on the charge representing the logic level of the data stored in memory cell MC bit line BL is pulled one way or another. For example if memory cell MC stores a Low then bit line BL is pulled towards ground or VSS. Conversely if memory cell MC stores a High then bit line BL is pulled towards voltage VDD. Once bit line BL shares the charge with memory cell MC bit line BL and bit line BLB develop a voltage difference between them which is commonly called a bit line split. The amplitude of the bit line split depends on the charge transfer ratio or the capacitance of memory cell MC and that of bit line BL. If bit line BL is longer and connected to a lot of memory cells the charge ratio becomes smaller and the bit line split is reduced. Conversely if bit line BL is shorter and is connected to a less number of memory cells the charge ratio becomes higher and the bit line split increases. In some embodiments memory cell MC is a cell of an eDRAM but the various embodiments are not so limited.

In at least one embodiment bit lines BL and BLB serve as both an input and output IO for memory cell MC. Generally bit lines BL and BLB are of the opposite level of one another. For example if bit line BL is Low then bit line BLB is High and if bit line BL is High then bit line BLB is Low. Further the bit line on which the data is written or sensed is referenced to the other bit line. For example applying a High to bit line BL and a Low to bit line BLB enables memory cell MC to be written with a High. Conversely applying a Low to bit line BL and a High to bit line BLB enables memory cell MC to be written with a Low. Further in a read cycle sensing or reading the logic level at a bit line e.g. bit line BL reveals the data stored in memory cell MC. For example if memory cell stores a High then sensing a bit line e.g. bit line BL reveals a High. Conversely if memory cell MC stores a Low then sensing a bit line e.g. bit line BL reveals a Low.

Signals SP and SN provide the operational power for sense amplifier SENAMP e.g. to turn it on or off. Signal SP is the operational power while signal SN serves as a ground reference. In general when signals SP and SN are at a same level e.g. pulled to voltage VREF amplifier SENAMP is off. But when signal SP is High e.g. at voltage VDD and signal SN is Low e.g. at ground sense amplifier SENAMP is on. For example in some embodiments at a pre charge and equalization stage sense amplifier SENAMP is off when signals SP and SN are pulled to voltage VREF. When signal SP is raised from voltage VREF to voltage VDD and signal SN is pulled from voltage VREF to voltage VSS sense amplifier SENAMP receives the desired electrical power and consequently is turned on. In some embodiments during resting time signals SP and SN are set at voltage VREST.

In some embodiments signals SP and SN when appropriate are pre charged and equalized by transistors N N and N. For example when signal EQ is activated e.g. applied with a High transistors N N and N are turned on the voltage value VR at node NVR is transferred through the respective transistor N and N to signals SP and SN which is then equalized by transistor N.

Global bit lines GBL and GBLB enable data transferring between a local memory cell e.g. memory cell MC and other circuits e.g. another level of sense amplifiers not shown . Signal SSL via the read write port RWPRT enables such a transfer.

Read write port RWPRT serves as a mechanism for transferring data between bit lines BL and BLB to other circuitry. For example in a read access in some embodiments once the data stored in memory MC is transferred to bit lines BL and BLB the data is then through read write port RWPRT transferred to a read circuit that provides the actual read data. In contrast in a write access the data from the outside circuit through read write port RWPRT is placed on bit lines BL and BLB and is then transferred to memory cell MC. Read write port RWPRT can be part of or outside of sense amplifier SENAMP.

In some embodiments when switching voltage VREF between about 100 mV and a voltage level for a minimum leakage e.g. to VDD is done efficiently without interfering with the operation of memory cell MC transistor N is not used e.g. circuit does not include transistor N and voltage VREST . In addition transistor N and voltage VREF are used in place of the respective transistor N and voltage VREST to provide the appropriate voltage level to node NVR and thus to bit lines BL and BLB. For example when voltage VREF is clean e.g. not noisy to not cause a short circuit to ground and or changing VREF does not consume larger power transistor N is used in place of transistor N. For a further example transistor N is turned on and voltage VREF is raised from about 100 mV to the retention level e.g. to VDD to be passed to node NVR. When memory cell MC is no longer in the retention mode voltage VREF is adjusted from the retention level to the appropriate level e.g. 100 200 mV as needed.

In step memory cell is in the retention mode. Transistor N is turned on to pass voltage VREST to node NVR. At about the same time transistors N and N are turned on to pre charge bit lines BL and BLB to voltage VREST. Similarly transistors N N and N are turned on to pre charge and equalize signals SP and SN to voltage VREST. In some embodiments voltage VREST is set VDD. In some further embodiments voltage VREST is set such that the leakage current from memory cell MC when memory cell MC stores a High is minimum. Further the minimum leakage value is obtained by simulation for a particular set of components e.g. transistors circuitry of circuit .

In step when the memory cell MC is identified e.g. selected for reading or writing transistor N is turned off while transistor N is turned on to pass voltage VSS to node NVR. In effect bit lines BL and BLB and signals SP and SN are pre charged to voltage VSS.

Once VSS pre charge is complete signal RWL in step is deactivated to disconnect transistor N from bit line BL. At about the same time word line WL is activated to electrically connect memory cell MC to bit line BL and transistor N is turned off to disconnect node NVR from voltage VSS while transistor N is turned on to pass voltage VREF to node NVR. In effect bit line BL is coupled to memory cell MC while bit line BLB is connected to node NVR having voltage VREF. At this time signals SP and SN continue to be connected to voltage VSS. Because memory cell MC is connected to bit line BL memory cell MC and bit line BL share the same charge. As a result bit line BL is pulled towards a High e.g. voltage VDD while bit line BLB remains at voltage VREF which causes a differential signal e.g. a bit line split to develop between bit line BL and bit line BLB.

In step when the bit line split is large enough signal SP is raised to voltage VDD while signal SN remains at voltage VSS to turn on sensing pair SENPAIR. In some embodiments the bit line split that is considered large enough is based on one or a combination of a predetermined voltage difference between the two bit lines BL and BLB a predetermined time elapse e.g. from the time sensing pair SENPAIR is turned on or a simulation model.

Because sense amplifier SENAMP is activated sense amplifier SENAMP amplifies the bit line split i.e. causes bit lines BL and BLB to change to the respective voltage VDD and voltage VSS and thus enlarges the bit line split.

In step once amplification is complete reading or writing is performed accordingly. For example in a read operation the data is transferred from bit lines BL and BLB to a read circuit to output the data. In a write operation however the data on bit lines GBL and GBLB are forced onto the respective bit lines BL and BLB to be written to memory cell MC.

In the above illustration in step bit lines BL and BLB are set to voltage VREST e.g. VDD which is advantageous because the leakage current from memory cell MC to the bit lines is reduced. For example if bit line BLB is not raised to voltage VREST but stays at VSS the voltage difference between voltage VDD and VSS e.g. 0 V would cause a larger leakage current.

Prior to time t an access has occurred to memory cell MC. The bit line split is at a full swing e.g. bit line BL is High while bit line BLB is Low.

At time t when the memory access is complete memory cell M enters into a resting mode for time period T both signals RWL and ZRWL are activated to turn on transistors N and N. Signal EQ is activated to turn on transistors N N and N. At about the same time signal GN is activated to turn on transistor N which transfers voltage VREST to node NVR. In effect voltage VR bit lines BL and BLB and signals SP and SN are pulled to voltage VREST which in some embodiments is set to VDD. Stated another way bit lines BL and BLB and signals SP and SN are pre charged to VDD.

At time t memory cell MC is in the access preparation mode for time period T signal GN is activated to transfer voltage VSS to node NVR. As a result signal VR is pulled to voltage VSS quickly while bit lines BL and BLB reach voltage VSS a little later. Signal RWL is then deactivated to turn off transistor N and disconnect transistor N from bit line BL. Alternatively stated bit line BL is disconnected from node NVR getting ready to be connected to memory cell MC. Signal EQ is also deactivated to disconnect signals SP and SN from transistors N N and N. At that time signal ZRWL continues to be High to keep bit line BLB at voltage VSS.

At time t signal WL is activated e.g. High for the time periods T T placing memory cell MC in the access mode e.g. for reading or writing . In some embodiments the logic swing of word line WL is significantly higher then the logic swing of other signals e.g. signals BL BLB SP SN RWL ZRWL etc. At time t signal GN is also activated to pass voltage VREF to node NVR. As a result bit line BLB then connected to node NVR is applied with voltage VREF. Because memory cell MC is connected to bit line BL bit line BL and memory cell MC share the same charge e.g. High . As a result the voltage level at bit line BL starts rising towards voltage VDD. Because bit line BLB is connected to node NVR having voltage VREF bit line BLB starts rising toward voltage VREF.

At time t when the bit line split is large enough signal ZRWL is deactivated to turn off transistor N disconnecting bit line BLB from node NVR. At about the same time signal SP is raised from VSS to voltage VDD and signal SN remains that the VSS level to turn on sensing pair SENPAIR. Because sensing pair SENPAIR is on bit line BL which shares the High charge with memory cell MC is continued to be pulled toward voltage VDD while bit line BLB is pulled towards voltage VSS.

At time t the bit line split is fully developed signal SSL is activated e.g. driven High to turn on read write port RWPRT for an actual read or write action as appropriate. In some embodiments in a write operation during period T the data on bit lines GBL and GBLB are transferred through read write port RWPRT to the respective bit lines BL and BLB to be written in period T. In some embodiments in a read operation the data on bit lines BL and BLB are transferred through read write port RWPRT to another read circuit to output the data.

At time t word line WL is deactivated. Memory cell MC returns to the resting state. At about the same time signals RWL and ZRWL are activated to turn on the respective transistors N and N. Signal EQ is also activated to turn on transistors N N and N. Additionally signal GN is activated while signal GN is deactivated to transfer voltage VREST e.g. VDD to node NVR. As a result bit lines BL and BLB and signals SP and SN are pulled towards voltage VREST and eventually reach voltage VREST at time t when memory cell MC is actually in the resting mode. Those skilled in the art will recognize that time t is compatible to time t where memory cell MC transitions from an access mode to the resting mode.

In the above illustration bit lines BL and BLB are charged to voltage VREST when signal WL is deactivated i.e. when memory cell MC is disconnected from both bit lines BL and BLB.

In some embodiments once bit lines BL and BLB are charged and equalized to VDD by transistor N and signal EQ the voltage level at bit lines BL and BLB can then be set e.g. charged and equalized to the voltage level at node NVR using transistors N N and N and voltage VREST as explained above. For example if voltage VDD is 1.0 V transistor N charges and equalizes bit lines BL and BLB to 0.5 V. Bit lines BL and BLB are then set to 0.4 V by having voltage VREST at 0.4 V transferred to node NVR and then to bit lines BL and BLB through the respective transistors N and N.

A number of embodiments have been described. It will nevertheless be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. For example the various transistors being shown as a particular dopant type e.g. NMOS and PMOS are for illustration purposes embodiments of the disclosure are not limited to a particular type but the dopant type selected for a particular transistor is a design choice and is within the scope of embodiments. The logic level e.g. Low or High of the various signals used in the above description is also for illustration purposes embodiments are not limited to a particular level when a signal is activated and or deactivated but rather selecting such a level is a matter of design choice. In various situations a transistor e.g. each of a transistor N N N N N etc. functions as a switch. As a result a switch can be used in place of a transistor that functions as a switch.

For another example some embodiments regard a circuit comprising a first data line a second data line a sensing circuit coupled to the first data line and the second data line a node configured to be selectively coupled to at least three voltage sources including at least a first voltage source a second voltage source and a third voltage a first switch and a second switch. The first voltage source is configured to supply a retention voltage to the node. The second voltage source is configured to supply a ground reference voltage to the node. The third voltage source is configured to supply a reference voltage to the node. The first switch and second switch are configured to receive respective first control signal and second control signal and to pass a voltage at the node to the respective first data line and second data line. In some embodiments when the memory cell is in a retention mode the first voltage source is configured to supply a voltage value to the node such that a current leak from the memory cell to the first data line or the second data line is reduced compared to the node receiving a voltage VSS value.

For another example some embodiments regard a circuit comprising a memory cell a first data line a second data line a node a sensing circuit a first switching device a second switching device. The first data line is electrically coupled to the memory cell. The node is configured to selectively provide a node voltage to the first data line and the second data line. The sensing circuit is coupled to the first data line and the second data line. The first switching device has a first node a second node and a third node. The second switching device has a fourth node a fifth node and a sixth node. The first node is coupled to the first data line. The second node is configured to receive a first control signal. The third node is coupled to the fourth node and forms a reference node. The fifth node is configured to receive a second control signal. The sixth node is coupled to the second data line. In some embodiments the circuit further comprises a third switching device coupled to the first data line and the second data line. Further the circuit is configured to receive a third control signal and when the memory cell is in a retention mode the circuit is configured to supply a retention voltage value to the first data line and the second data line.

For another example some embodiments regard a method of operating a VSS sensing amplifier the method comprising applying a retention voltage value to a first bit line a second bit line a first supply voltage line and a second supply voltage line identifying a memory cell for accessing applying a voltage VSS value to the first bit line the second bit line the first supply voltage line and the second supply voltage line electrically connecting the first bit line to the memory cell and applying a reference voltage value to the second bit line thereby causing a voltage split between the first bit line and the second bit line to develop and disconnecting the second bit line from the reference voltage and applying an operational voltage value to the first supply voltage line thereby causing the voltage split to further develop.

The above methods show exemplary steps but they are not necessarily performed in the order shown. Steps may be added replaced changed order and or eliminated as appropriate in accordance with the spirit and scope of disclosed embodiments.

