---

title: Method and apparatus for controlling access technology selection
abstract: A method and system for selecting at a terminal at least one of a plurality of available access networks for use with a wireless application invoked at the terminal according preferences associated with the wireless application, the network service provider, the subscriber, the subscriber subscription and application content provider. The selection may be constrained by an Application Policy received from a network service provider.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09113316&OS=09113316&RS=09113316
owner: Alcatel Lucent
number: 09113316
owner_city: Boulogne-Billancourt
owner_country: FR
publication_date: 20120807
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 705 212 filed Feb. 12 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 320 272 entitled Method and Apparatus for Controlling Access Technology Selection which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 705 203 entitled Method And Apparatus Providing Access Network Aware Presence To Applications which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The invention relates generally to the field of communication network management and more specifically but not exclusively to management of wireless communication networks.

Access devices such as smart phones net books laptops with wireless access and the like may be capable of using different types of access technologies such as WiFi IEEE 802.11 UMTS 3GPP WiMax IEEE 802.16 GPRS 3GPP EV DO 3GPP2 or LTE 3GPP .

The specific access network and technology used by the access device is selected according to a fixed preference list stored in the device or according to a preference list transmitted by the access provider. The preferences are typically meant to ensure that service is provided via the subscriber s access provider or a partner provider. The access technology is selected primarily according to signal strength coverage considerations and after being selected is used to support all services requested by the user.

Access devices may select a different access technology in response to an event trigger based upon changing connectivity conditions at the access device e.g. such as when the access device moves from an area in which a selected first access technology has good coverage to an area in which a second access technology has good coverage . These types of triggers are defined by 3GPP 3GPP2 802.21 and other standards.

Within a specific access technology quality of service QoS differentiation based upon the needs of a requesting application may be provided. For example a voice over IP VoIP application may be accorded preference in an access network according to a business needs and application requirements.

Unfortunately at times the initial access technology selected by the access device is not best choice for a subsequently invoked application.

For example when a subscriber invokes a VoIP application on a dual mode 3GPP WiFi capable device the voice calls may be served on a WiFi network even if the access provider prefers to have all voice calls served via a 3GPP based technology e.g. UMTS LTE because of the superior capability of the 3GPP based technology to handle mobility for conversation class services. Similarly when a device is accessing a specific technology e.g. EV DO LTE WiFi etc. for packet based services there is little to no control provided over the conditions under which an application may use that technology. This makes it impossible to establish flexible policies that control selection of an access technology according to criteria important to the application provider content provider and access provider.

Various deficiencies of the prior art are addressed by the present invention of a method system and apparatus for controlling access technology selection by a wireless access device capable of communicating via multiple access technologies.

A method according to one embodiment comprises selecting at least one of a plurality of available access networks both wireless and wired for use with an application invoked at a terminal according to a preference associated with the application where the preference takes into account at least one a network service provider preference a subscriber preference a subscriber subscription preference and an application content provider preference. The wired access includes all access methods that maintain a physical connection between the access device and the network. The selecting may be constrained by an Application Policy received from a network service provider. The selecting may be performed in response to a user invoking an application at a terminal an application server initiating a transaction or a peer triggering a transaction. Additional actions may be performed in response to a trigger condition such as an indication of network congestion or changes in subscriber application content provider or service provider preferences.

A system according to one embodiment comprises network provider equipment PE including a control function server adapted to formulate an Application Policy and forward the Application Policy towards terminals capable of communicating with a plurality of access networks wherein the Application Policy defines allowable access technology selections and the conditions under which each may be selected associated with applications invoked within multiple access network terminal devices.

To facilitate understanding identical reference numerals have been used where possible to designate identical elements that are common to the figures.

The invention will be primarily described within the context of a wireless access device capable of communicating via a plurality of access technologies where the wireless access device selects specific access technologies for communication based upon the specific application invoked as well as other factors. However those skilled in the art and informed by the teachings herein will realize that the invention is also applicable to any communication device in which multiple means of communications are available and different applications having different communication requirements may be invoked.

It will be appreciated that while a single terminal is depicted in the system a typical implementation of such a system would include many terminals where each terminal represents the user equipment UE associated with a user or subscriber of a wireless network access provider. The terminals and other user equipment interact with provider equipment PE associated with the wireless network access provider such as eNodeBs routers gateways subnets servers managers and the like. The specific access provider equipment used depends upon many factors including the number and types of access technologies used the size of the access provider network the number of subscribers serviced by the access provider the number of applications supported by the access provider the geographic scope of the access provider network and so on.

Moreover it will be appreciated that discussion herein relating to control signaling bearer traffic and the like is simplified for purposes of clarity. Generally speaking control signals as well as bearer traffic are communicated between the terminal and ANMC server via one or both of the access networks . Generally speaking the ANMC server communicates with the application servers via a server side network not shown associated with the wireless service access provider or via the core network . In control signals are generally denoted as dashed lines while bearer signals are generally denoted as solid lines.

The terminal comprises a wireless network access device capable of using different types of access technologies such as a smart phone e.g. iPhone Blackberry and the like a net book a laptop computer a network access device within an automobile and so on. Generally speaking the terminal may be implemented using any type of wireless device capable of communicating via multiple types of access technologies such as provided by access networks .

The access networks may comprise any type of access network technology such as WiFi UMTS WiMax EV DO LTE and so on. Each of the access networks facilitate communication between at least the terminal and a core network and or other network elements and communications with the access networks .

The terminal includes a plurality of user equipment UE application clients an access network multi conductivity ANMC control function client CFC and user equipment bearer handling components UE BH . It will be appreciated that the functions indicated herein as separate clients in the Terminal may also be implemented as functional components within a single client.

The UE application clients comprise software executed at the terminal to invoke a specific application such as a GPS location application a VoIP application a video over IP application a remote television programming application and so on. Each application typically requires interaction between the terminal and various servers gateways routers network elements other terminals and so on to implement its respective function. The ANMC Control Function Client and the bearer handling components UE BH may be implemented as distinct clients in the UE as a functional entities within the UE Application Client or incorporated in the IP and lower layers within the Operating System kernel.

The ANMC control functions client CFC receives control signaling from an ANMC control functions server CFS within the ANMC server . The received control signaling includes an Application Policy that is used to determine one or more of the following 1 the specific access networks or group of access networks used to support a particular application client and or application server or type of UE application client 2 the QOS level permissions or other criteria associated with one of more of the UE application clients 3 interactions adapted to change the service level associated with a particular subscriber to meet Service Level Agreement SLA criteria and 4 other aspects of the operation of applications within the terminal . Generally speaking the ANMC control functions client CFC adapts the operation of the terminal and or applications invoked within terminal in conformance with service provider policies specific to the application as determined in the CFS within the ANMC server .

The UE BH function comprises the hardware software within the terminal operable to receive and transmit information via the access networks . The UE BH function conveys control signaling and bearer traffic between the functional elements within the terminal and the external functional elements such as the ANMC server and application servers . It is responsible for bearer handling functions to execute the Application Policy including the mapping of application packets to and from the correct access network as determined by Application Policy.

The access network multi connectivity ANMC server includes an ANMC control functions server CFS operable to control the operation of the terminal and or applications invoked within terminal in response to an Application Policy associated with the terminal that reflects the subscriber preferences associated with the terminal the needs applications invoked within the terminal or other criteria.

Each of the application servers and collectively application servers comprises the hardware software associated with a corresponding application capable of being invoked by an application client in the terminal . Application servers may be located with provider equipment PE such as the ANMC server located at a network operation center of an application provider or content provider at each of the plurality of mirror sites serving a user community or specific provider network and so on. Generally speaking the application servers comprise the equipment software and firmware necessary to interact with the user via a network to provide thereby application services content delivery VoIP services and so on.

Each application server is depicted as including an ANMC control function agent CFA an application instance and an application equipment bearer handling function AE BH . The ANMC Control Function Agent and Application equipment bearer handling function may be implemented as distinct application components within the Application Server as functional entities within the application providing service to the UE or incorporated in the IP and lower layers within the Operating System kernel on the Application server.

The application interacts with the application client of the terminal to deliver the services associated with the specific application e.g. location services VoIP video and the like . The application equipment bearer handling function AE BH maps packets associated with the traffic flows of the application to the appropriate bearer channels such as to one or more of access networks . The ANMC control function agent CFA controls the operation of the application and AE BH function in conformance with an Application Policy received from the ANMC server .

The ANMC server distributes an Application Policy to the terminal via a corresponding Application Policy distribution path APD T illustratively via a control channel or bearer channel within any of the access networks compatible with the terminal . In the case of multiple terminals each of the multiple terminals receives from the ANMC server a corresponding Application Policy. Different terminals may have the same Application Policy or different Application Policies depending upon the service level agreement associated with the terminal the applications invoked by the terminal and or other factors discussed herein. The application policy may be formulated using criteria from an application policy source such as a service level agreement SLA network operator criteria guidelines and so on.

Information used to define the Application Policy for access technology selection is received from a variety of sources including one or more of the access provider associated with one or more of the access networks subscriber information preferences application information board preferences network operating parameters e.g. network congestion indicators QoS indicators etc. and so on. The information used to define the Application Policy is hierarchical in nature in various embodiments. For example access provider policies may constrain subscriber and application provider requested policies in view of service level agreements network congestion indicators QOS indicators and the like.

Access provider policies define the behavior of terminals and applications within the access provider s network in accordance with the goals of the access provider in managing its network s . The Access provider policies are reflected in the Application Policy used to determine bearer availability for an application. A separate Application Policy may be provided for each application or service that the access provider wishes to control. Additionally separate Application Policy may be provided for each user according to user subscription information known to the access provider. The policy may be periodically updated according to changing network conditions or other criteria important to the access provider. A default Application Policy may be invoked for applications for which an explicit policy has not been established.

Aspects of the Application Policy sent to the terminal may be modified by the subscriber as allowed by the access provider. This allows the end user to personalize aspects of their service in a manner permitted by the Access Provider.

Aspects of the Application Policy sent to the terminal may be modified by one or more applications as allowed by the access provider. This allows the application provider to personalize or optimize aspects of its service to the end user in a manner permitted by the Access Provider.

While the Application Policy may be modified in response to terminal requests application requests and or other information from various sources the limits of such modifications are ultimately constrained by the access provider through the access provider policies included within the Application Policy. That is the access provider determines which aspects of the Application Policy may be modified by the terminal application when such modifications may be made under what conditions such modifications may be made the extent to which such modifications may be made and so on.

One example of an access provider policy is a stipulation that during busy hours of the day or when network congestion metrics are above a threshold level certain applications will not be allowed to use 3GPP based access. For example the video applications may be prohibited during certain critical hours or as a response to network congestion. In this manner access network enforcement of QoS levels associated with the access providers subscriber community may be maintained for at least the allowed applications.

Another example of an access provider policy is a stipulation that under predefined circumstances certain application requests will be honored while other application requests will be over ridden. For example an access provider may wish to always support VoIP service on a specific 3GPP technology platform irrespective of the technology platform requested by the application i.e. a VoIP application requesting use of an available WiFi technologies will instead be forced to use and available 3GPP access technology . In this manner QoS levels associated with individual subscribers or subscriber applications may be maintained irrespective of subscriber or application request.

Another example of an access provider policy is a hierarchical stipulation of the access technology to be used by an application when the Terminal establishes multiple connectivity options. This controls whether an application will switch to a newly available access option or maintain service on a previously available access. Hence a streaming application may switch to WiFi when it becomes available due to mobility induced coverage changes whereas an active VoIP call may be maintained on 3GPP access.

Subscriber preferences and subscriber subscription preferences may be stored at the ANMC server or other service equipment SE such as at HSS SPR . Subscriber preferences may also be stored at the terminal .

The Home Subscriber System HSS and Subscription Profile Repository SPR contain per subscriber subscription information for specific services applications. In one embodiment this information is used to alter the Application Policy according to the services authorized for the subscriber. This allows access providers to charge subscribers for enhanced delivery of a service. For example an access provider may wish to stipulate that a video service will only be available via WiFi unless the subscriber pays an additional fee to receive the service via LTE. The per subscriber authorization to support this may be obtained from the HSS SPR.

Application preferences may be provided received via an application programming interface API supporting one or more of the application client in the terminal and the Application Server . Application preferences may be communicated by other means e.g. via signaling control channels or bearer channels . Applications may be offered to subscribers directly from the access provider so called walled garden applications or from third party providers so called over the top applications . In either case the specific application offered to the subscriber may have requirements supportable by relatively low cost or low bit rate networks requirements necessitating the use of relatively high cost or high bit rate networks asymmetrical forward backward bandwidth requirements and the like.

Network operating parameters e.g. congestion state and or other indicators may be received via an API or other means from illustratively access network Operations Administration and Maintenance OAM systems not shown or network monitoring appliances not shown . The ANMC Server aggregates congestion information and or other network operator parameter information from one or more of the available access networks. Based on this information the Application Policy which determines the network s to be selected may be updated to reflect the changes in access network conditions.

Referring to the ANMC Control Function Server CFS gathers the information relevant to the formulation of and Application Policy formulates an Application Policy for each terminal and or application and distributes the formulated application policies to one or more of the appropriate ANMC Control Function Clients CFC in the terminals and to the appropriate ANMC control function application CFA within the application server . As previously noted these Application Policy distribution paths may be supported by any control channels or bearer channels supported by the access networks core network or other communication mechanism.

An Application Policy may be distributed when an application is invoked or it may be pre loaded and stored in a terminal . In either case the Application Policy may be subsequently updated at any time.

The CFC in the terminal is responsible for receiving the policy and directing bearer handling components of the invention to use a selected access technology. It may also trigger scanning for additional access options if the current access options are not consistent with those in the Application Policy.

The bearer handling components of the UE BH function are responsible for mapping packets to the correct access technology when more than one access technology is available. This mapping they be accomplished using one or more of the following mechanisms 1 Mobile IPv4 IPv6 extensions that permit flow binding to a Care of address associated with the access network 2 Use of a Traffic Flow Template TFT to map traffic to a desired interface 3 Use of operating specific APIs that permit Source Routing to an interface associated with the Source IP address 4 Use of APIs that allow routing table default route modifications to associate packets with the desired interface and or 5 other mechanisms.

When UE application clients and their associated applications are capable of supporting only one access network option e.g. a single IP address the UE BH function maps packets received from the UE Application Client to only one of either Access Network A A or Access Network B B . In this embodiment the UE BH function wraps each packet or group of packets received from the Application Client for transmission via a tunnel that terminates at the ANMC server . The ANMC server then unwraps extracts the packet or group of packets from the tunnel and forwards the packet or group of packets to the corresponding Application.

In various embodiments a bearer handling control function may be included within one or more of the application invoked at the terminal network adapters network device drivers and the terminal operating system.

When UE application clients and their associated applications are capable of supporting multiple access network options e.g. multiple simultaneous IP addresses the UE BH function may be incorporated within the Application Client . In this embodiment the application client receives a directive from the control function client CFC indicating the access network to use for an application. The access network may be identified using one or more of the following mechanisms 1 The IP address of the access network interface 2 The Network Identifier e.g. SSID PLMN ID of the access network 3 A MIP agent advertisement identifying an available network 4 A Network Name and or 5 Other mechanisms that identify the access network. In response the UE BH function maps packets to Access Network A A and or Access Network B B accordingly. In this case no bearer tunnel through the ANMC Server is required.

The Control Function Application CFA within the application server performs a function similar to that of the control function client CFC within the terminals namely informing the corresponding bearer handling component AE BH function in the Application Server to map packets to the appropriate access network . In another embodiment the CFA function may be incorporated into the Application. In this case no tunnel is required and packets are sent directly between the Application and Terminal Client via the chosen access network.

At step an application is invoked by the wireless access device or terminal . The application may comprise illustratively a VoIP application a browser application a GPS mapping application a video over IP application and so on.

At step a determination is made as to the preferred and or allowable access technology options associated with the application in accordance with an Application Policy previously received by the access device via the access network. As previously noted the Application Policy is controlled by the access provider and referring to box takes into consideration one or more of the following criteria 

At step a determination is made as to whether the examination of the Application Policy triggers a need to perform one or more additional actions.

At step any triggered additional actions are performed. Referring to box such additional actions may comprise searching for an additional access network searching for an alternative access network selecting for use by the application an additional access network selecting for use by the application an alternative access network adapting the use of parameters associated with one or more access networks and or other actions.

Generally speaking the Application Policy may trigger the terminal to make access network selection changes access network usage changes and the like. A search for additional and or alternative access technology may be triggered when illustratively the access options currently in use by the device are either insufficient to meet the QOS needs of the invoked application or conversely excessive with respect to the QOS needs of the invoked application.

Depending upon the stipulations in the Application Policy no access option may be selected a single access option may be selected or multiple access options may be selected. In one embodiment if multiple access options are selected then the application may use multiple simultaneous bearers established in the access networks to support the application e.g. allowing a VoIP service via UMTS with simultaneous video via WiFi .

At step the wireless access device or terminal initiates new communications or adapts existing communications with the application server supporting the invoked application in accordance with the Application Policy. In this manner the Application Policy may define one or more access networks to be used in support of the application the specific loading imparted to a network by the application any time periods during which the application loading of an access network may be constrained and so on. The selection of the one or more access networks is made according to the Application Policy criteria and in the embodiment of supported by the user equipment bearer handling components UE BH .

The method then proceeds to step where a determination with respect to the preferred and or allowable access options may be made in accordance with any changes that occurred with respect to the Application Policy such as with respect to time of day network congestion and or other criteria.

As depicted in computing element includes various cooperating elements including a processor element e.g. a central processing unit CPU and or other suitable processor s a memory e.g. random access memory RAM read only memory ROM and the like and various input output devices e.g. a user input device such as a keyboard a keypad a mouse and the like a user output device such as a display a speaker and the like an input port an output port a receiver transmitter e.g. an air card or other suitable type of receiver transmitter and storage devices e.g. a hard disk drive a compact disk drive an optical disk drive and the like . also depicts a further cooperating element that may be used to augment the functionality of the processor s memory and I O devices or to implement any of the various or additional functions as described herein. In various alternate embodiments cooperating element may comprise a control function client control function server control function agent bearer function management function and the like.

It should be noted that functions depicted and described herein may be implemented in software and or in a combination of software and hardware e.g. using a general purpose computer one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC and or any other hardware equivalents. In one embodiment software implementing methodology or mechanisms supporting the various embodiments is loaded into memory and executed by processor s to implement the functions as discussed herein. Thus various methodologies and functions including associated data structures can be stored on a computer readable storage medium e.g. RAM memory magnetic or optical drive or diskette and the like.

It is contemplated that some of the steps discussed herein as software methods may be implemented within hardware for example as circuitry that cooperates with the processor to perform various method steps. Portions of the functions elements described herein may be implemented as a computer program product wherein computer instructions when processed by a computer adapt the operation of the computer such that the methods and or techniques described herein are invoked or otherwise provided. Instructions for invoking the inventive methods may be stored in tangible fixed or removable media transmitted via a data stream in a tangible or intangible broadcast or other signal bearing medium and or stored within a memory within a computing device operating according to the instructions.

The above described invention provides a mechanism to control access methods used by terminals on a per application basis while enhancing the ability of service providers to control how applications are supported on their networks. The various embodiments enable wireless service providers to offer new services in 3G 4G WiFi networks by minimizing the impact of applications on the more band limited access options. Thus wireless service providers utilizing various embodiments may offer application content providers access to the API to request access network services. Additionally wireless service providers will thereby generate additional revenue from end users by offering them enhanced access options associated with preferred services.

The above described teachings and embodiments provided herein such as methods apparatus systems and the like for controlling access technology selection may be adapted in various combinations with the teachings and embodiments such as methods apparatus systems and the like for providing network aware presence disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 705 203 which is entitled Method And Apparatus Providing Access Network Aware Presence To Applications and which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

While the foregoing is directed to various embodiments of the present invention other and further embodiments of the invention may be devised without departing from the basic scope thereof. As such the appropriate scope of the invention is to be determined according to the claims which follow.

