---

title: Microelectronic package
abstract: A microelectronic package includes a lower unit having a lower unit substrate with conductive features and a top and bottom surface. The lower unit includes one or more lower unit chips overly/ing the top surface of the lower unit substrate that are electrically connected to the conductive features of the lower unit substrate. The microelectronic package also includes an upper unit including an upper unit substrate having conductive features, top and bottom surfaces and a hole extending between such top and bottom surfaces. The upper unit further includes one or more upper unit chips overlying the top surface of the upper unit substrate and electrically connected to the conductive features of the upper unit substrate by connections extending within the hole. The upper unit may include an upper unit encapsulant that covers the connections of the upper unit and the one or more upper unit chips.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09349672&OS=09349672&RS=09349672
owner: Tessera, Inc.
number: 09349672
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121026
---
The present application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 894 036 filed on Aug. 16 2007 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to microelectronic apparatuses and methods for making microelectronic components for microelectronic packages and assemblies.

Semiconductor chips are commonly provided in packages that facilitate handling of the chip during manufacture and during mounting of the chip on an external substrate such as a circuit board or other circuit panel. For example many semiconductor chips are provided in packages suitable for surface mounting. Numerous packages of this general type have been proposed for various applications. Certain types of packages have been developed which utilize a microelectronic component having a dielectric substrate having conductive traces disposed thereon. In such an arrangement electrically conductive posts or pillars project from a surface of the substrate. Each post is connected to a portion of one of the traces. This type of microelectronic component is particularly useful in chip packages having arrangements that allow each post to move independently of the other posts. The movement of the posts allows the tips of the plural post to simultaneously engage contact pads on a circuit board despite irregularities in the circuit board or the package such as warpage of the circuit board. Additionally this facilitates testing of the package using simple test boards that may have substantially planar contacts and avoids the need for specialized expensive test sockets.

This type of microelectronic component has various applications and can be used in a number of different microelectronic package arrangements. As disclosed in certain preferred embodiments of U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 11 014 439 10 985 119 and 10 985 126 the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein one such microelectronic package can include a microelectronic element such as a semiconductor chip and a microelectronic component comprising a substrate spaced from and overlying a first face of the microelectronic element. Such a component can include a plurality of conductive posts extending from the substrate and projecting away from the microelectronic element at least some of the conductive posts being electrically interconnected with the microelectronic element. Additionally such a package can include a plurality of support elements disposed between the microelectronic element and the substrate and supporting the substrate over the microelectronic element. At least some of the conductive posts may be offset in horizontal directions parallel to the plane of the substrate from the support elements. For example the support elements may be disposed in an array with zones of the substrate disposed between adjacent support elements and the posts may be disposed near the centers of such zones.

The dielectric substrate utilized in such a microelectronic component can be made from a material such as a polyimide or other polymeric sheet. It includes a top surface and a bottom surface remote therefrom. Although the thickness of the dielectric substrate will vary with the application the dielectric substrate most typically is about 10 m 100 m thick. The sheet has conductive traces thereon. In one embodiment the conductive traces are disposed on the bottom surface of the sheet. However in other embodiments the conductive traces may extend on the top surface of the sheet on both the top and bottom faces or within the interior of substrate. Conductive traces may be formed from any electrically conductive material but most typically are formed from copper copper alloys gold or combinations of these materials. The thickness of the traces will also vary with the application but typically is about 5 m 25 m. Traces are arranged so that each trace has a support end and a post end remote from the support end. The dielectric sheet traces and posts can be fabricated by a process such as that disclosed in co pending commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 959 465 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein. As disclosed in greater detail in the 465 Application a metallic plate is etched or otherwise treated to form numerous metallic posts projecting from the plate. A dielectric layer is applied to this plate so that the posts project through the dielectric layer. An inner side of the dielectric layer faces toward the metallic plate whereas the outer side of the dielectric layer faces towards the tips of the posts. Previously this dielectric layer has been fabricated by forcibly engaging the posts with the dielectric sheet so that the posts penetrate through the sheet. Once the sheet is in place the metallic plate is etched to form individual traces on the inner side of the dielectric layer. Alternatively conventional processes such as plating may form the traces or etching whereas the posts may be formed using the methods disclosed in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 6 177 636 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein. In yet another alternative the posts may be fabricated as individual elements and assembled to the sheet in any suitable manner which connects the posts to the traces.

Despite these advances in the art still further improvements in making microelectronic components would be desirable.

In accordance with an aspect of the present invention a microelectronic package may include a lower unit having a lower unit substrate with conductive features and a top and bottom surface. The lower unit may include one or more lower unit chips overlying the top surface of the lower unit substrate that are electrically connected to the conductive features of the lower unit substrate. An upper unit of the microelectronic package may include an upper unit substrate having conductive features top and bottom surfaces and a hole extending between such top and bottom surfaces. The upper unit may further include one or more upper unit chips overlying the top surface of the upper unit substrate and electrically connected to the conductive features of the upper unit substrate by connections extending within the hole. The upper unit substrate may be disposed over the lower unit chips and the hole such that the connections of the upper unit are offset in a first horizontal direction from the lower unit chips.

The microelectronic package may also include electrically conductive connections electrically connecting the conductive features of the upper unit substrate and the lower unit substrate. The conductive connections may define a pattern and the hole of the upper unit can be offset in the first horizontal direction relative to the pattern. The one or more lower unit chips may be offset relative to the pattern in a second horizontal direction opposite to the first horizontal direction.

The lower unit may have a hole extending between the top and bottom surfaces of the lower unit substrate such that the one or more lower unit chips are electrically connected to conductive features of the lower unit substrate by connections extending through the hole in the lower unit substrate. The lower unit substrate may also be offset relative to the pattern of the conductive connections in the second horizontal direction.

The microelectronic package may also have an upper unit encapsulant that one or more of the upper unit chips and a lower unit encapsulant that covers the connections of the lower unit as well as one or more lower unit chips. The upper and lower unit encapsulants may be disposed over the upper and lower unit chips and connections such that one or more steps are created. One of the steps of said upper unit may be adjacent one of the steps of the lower unit.

There may also be four upper unit chips of the microelectronic package. Each of the upper unit chips may have an edge with a wire lead extending across each of the edges of the four chips to the conductive features of the upper unit substrate.

In an alternate embodiment the package may include a first microelectronic element having a plurality of contacts and a second microelectronic element having a plurality of contacts. The first microelectronic element being positioned over the second microelectronic element. And a dielectric element having a first face a second face and a hole extending from the first face to the second face. The dielectric element further including conductive features exposed at the second face and the second microelectronic element being positioned above said dielectric element.

The package also may include a first set of connection elements extending between the plurality of contacts of the first microelectronic element and at least some of the conductive features of the dielectric element. A second set of connection elements extending between the plurality of contacts of the second microelectronic element and at least some of the conductive features of the dielectric element. At least some of the first set of connection elements and at least some of the second set of connection elements extend through the hole of the dielectric element.

The microelectronic package may also have an encapsulant disposed over the connections extending within the hole. The encapsulant may be dispersed over both the microelectronic elements and the connection as an overmold. The height of the encapsulant or overmold at the connections may be greater than a height of the encapsulant over the microelectronic elements. For example the height of the encapsulant at the microelectronic element may be at least 50 microns less than the height of the encapsulant over the connection elements.

The microelectronic package may also include a third microelectronic element positioned over the second microelectronic element and a fourth microelectronic element positioned over the third microelectronic element. The dielectric element may also have an outer edge and each of the first second third and fourth microelectronic elements may also have an edge. The edge of the fourth microelectronic element may be more proximate the outer edge of the dielectric element than the edges of the first second and third microelectronic elements.

In another aspect of the present invention a microelectronic package comprises a first unit including a first unit substrate that has conductive features and a top and bottom surface. The first unit includes one or more first unit chips overlying the top surface of the first unit substrate that are electrically connected to the conductive features of the first unit substrate. There is also a second unit including a second unit substrate having conductive features and top and bottom surfaces. The second unit further includes one or more second unit chips overlying the top face of the second unit substrate and electrically connected to the conductive features of the second unit substrate by connections extending from the second unit chips to the conductive features. The second unit substrate is disposed over the first unit chips and the connections of the second unit are offset in a first horizontal direction from the first unit chips. The first unit may include a first unit encapsulant covering the connections of the first unit and the one or more first unit chips.

The encapsulant at the height of the connection elements may be greater than the height of at least a portion of the encapsulant covering the microelectronic elements. For example the height of the encapsulant at the microelectronic elements may be at least 50 microns less than the height of the encapsulant over the connection elements such as wire leads.

The contact bearing faces of the first unit chips may face upward away from the top surface of the first unit substrate or downward toward the top surface of the first unit substrate.

In another aspect of the present invention a method of manufacturing a microelectronic package is provided. In one embodiment the method includes attaching a first chip to a second chip such that a first portion of the first chip extends outwardly beyond a first portion of the second chip. And attaching the second chip to a first face of a substrate. The substrate having an oppositely facing second face that includes conductive elements and at least one hole extending therethrough. The method may also include electrically connecting the first chip and the second chip to the conductive elements of the substrate via connection elements. At least one connection element electrically connecting the first chip to the conductive elements and at least one connection element electrically connecting the second chip to the conductive elements extending through a common hole of the substrate.

In another aspect of the present invention a method of manufacturing a microelectronic package includes preparing a first unit including a first substrate having conductive features a top surface and bottom surface remote from the top surface. The first unit may include one or more first unit chips overlying the top surface of the first unit substrate. A second unit can be prepared which may include a second unit substrate having conductive features a top surface and a bottom surface remote from the top surface. A hole may extend between such top and bottom surfaces. The second unit may further include one or more second unit chips overlying the top surface of the second unit substrate. The second unit chips can be electrically connected to the conductive features of the second unit substrate with connection elements. The second unit can then be joined to the first unit such that the hole and the connections of the second unit are offset in a first horizontal direction from the first unit chips.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention a method is provided for forming a conductive interconnection between first and second interconnect elements. In such method a conductive post extending from the first interconnect element is joined with a conductive pad of the second interconnect element by molten solder. The solder may then be allowed to elongate in a direction aligned with the height of the conductive post of the first interconnect element.

In a particular example a height of the conductive interconnection may be at least one and one half times a diameter of the conductive pad.

In accordance with one aspect of the invention a method is provided for conductively interconnecting first and second substrates through a conductive column. A conductive post protruding away from a major surface of a first substrate is joined to a conductive feature exposed at a major surface of a second substrate through a column of solder that wets a wall of the conductive post. The conductive column has a width W at an end adjacent to the second substrate and a width M at a midpoint between the first and second substrates. In one aspect of the invention a ratio of the width M to the width W is less than 1.2.

In accordance with one aspect of the invention a method is provided for conductively interconnecting first and second substrates through conductive columns. In such method first bumps protruding from a major surface of a first substrate are aligned with respective second bumps which protrude from a major surface of a second substrate towards the first bumps where each of the first and second bumps includes a solder. The first and second bumps and fused into conductive columns such as by heating where each column has a width W at an end adjacent to the second substrate and a width M at a midpoint between the first and second substrates. In accordance with a particular aspect of the invention a ratio of the width M to the width W is less than 1.2.

In accordance with a particular aspect of the invention each of the first and second bumps can include a solder paste. In one aspect of the invention each of the first and second bumps consists essentially of solder.

In accordance with one aspect of the invention a method is provided for conductively interconnecting first and second substrates through conductive columns. In such method exposed columns protruding from a first face of a first substrate are joined with features exposed at a second face of a second substrate that confronts the first face where each exposed column includes a solder paste. The exposed columns are fused to the exposed features such as by heating to form conductive columns interconnecting the first and second substrates. Each such column has a width W at an end adjacent to the second substrate and a width M at a midpoint between the first and second substrates wherein a ratio of the width M to the width W is less than 1.2. In a particular embodiment the exposed features of the second substrate include columns which protrude from the second face such columns also including a solder paste.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention a microelectronic assembly is provided which includes a first wiring element having a top surface defining a first plane. A second wiring element has a bottom surface that defines a second plane other than the first plane the bottom surface confronting the top surface of the first wiring element. One or both of the first or second wiring elements can include a plurality of conductive pads exposed at one of the confronting surfaces. In a particular embodiment a microelectronic element may be conductively connected to one or both of the first or second wiring elements.

A plurality of conductive columns connect the first wiring element with the second wiring element. The conductive columns include conductive posts protruding in a direction of at least one of i from the first wiring element towards the pads of the second wiring element or ii from the second wiring element towards the pads of the first wiring element. The columns may further include a solder overlying the conductive posts. The solder may join the conductive posts of at least one of the first or second wiring elements with pads exposed at the confronting surface of the at least one of the first or second wiring elements. In one embodiment a height of each column is greater than a height of the conductive post included in such column.

In accordance with a particular aspect of the invention one or both of the first or second wiring elements may further include traces which extend from the pads in a direction of the first or second planes defined by such wiring element. In a particular example the width of each pad can be less than the height of each column.

In accordance with a particular aspect of the invention each column may be joined at a top end to the second wiring element and may be joined at a bottom end to the first wiring element. A waist width of such column at a position between the top and bottom ends may be less than 1.2 multiplied by a width of such column at the top end. In addition the waist width of such column may be less than 1.2 multiplied by a width of such column at the bottom end.

In accordance with a particular aspect of the invention the conductive posts may be arranged at a pitch with the height being greater than half the pitch.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention a microelectronic assembly is provided. A first wiring element of such assembly may have a top surface which defines a first plane and a plurality of first conductive pads exposed at the top surface. A second wiring element may have a bottom surface which defines a second plane other than the first plane the bottom surface confronting the top surface of the first wiring element. A plurality of second conductive pads may be exposed at the bottom surface. A microelectronic element may be conductively connected to at least one of the first or second wiring elements. Conductive columns each including a solder may connect ones of the first conductive pads with respective ones of the second conductive pads.

In accordance with a particular aspect of the invention each column may have a width M at a midpoint between the first and second conductive pads. A height H of each column between the first and second conductive pads may be greater than the width M.

In accordance with a particular aspect of the invention a height of each column between the first and second conductive pads may be greater than half a pitch of the first conductive pads included in the conductive columns.

In one aspect of the invention at least one of the first or second wiring elements further includes traces extending along a respective plane defined by such wiring element from a respective one of the conductive pads of such wiring element.

In a particular aspect of the invention the width of each conductive pad may be less than the height of each column.

In a particular aspect of the invention each column may be joined at a bottom end to one of the first conductive pads and joined at a top end to one of the second conductive pads. Each such column has a width M at a midpoint between the top and bottom ends and a width W at the bottom end. In a particular aspect of the invention a ratio of the width M to the width W is less than 1.2.

A microelectronic package in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention includes a microelectronic element such as semiconductor chip shown in . The chip includes a first or contact bearing surface and an oppositely facing second surface . The chip also includes a plurality of edges extending between the first surface and the second surface including first edge and oppositely facing second edge as well as third edge and oppositely facing fourth edge . Additionally the first surface of the chip includes a contact portion adjacent first edge a remote portion adjacent second edge and a central portion positioned between the contact portion and the remote portion. A plurality of contacts are exposed at the contact portion to enable the chip to be electrically connected to other devices as will be described below.

In one aspect of the present invention as shown in the contacts are disposed proximate the first edge and remote from second edge . The contacts are also disposed in the contact portion of the chip . Although not shown in the figure a passivation layer may be formed over the first surface of the chip with openings positioned adjacent contacts such that the contacts are exposed.

Referring to the microelectronic package includes a second microelectronic element such as a semiconductor chip which is similar to chip . Chip may include a first surface bearing electrical contacts such as contacts exposed there at. Chip also includes an oppositely facing second surface . And similar to chip chip includes a first edge a second edge a third edge and a fourth edge each extending between and connecting the first surface to the second surface of chip . The first surface of chip also includes a contact portion adjacent first edge a remote portion adjacent second edge and a central portion positioned between the contact portion and the remote portion. The contacts are positioned adjacent first edge in the contact portion of the chip .

In a method of assembly the two chips and are brought proximate to one another and stacked one upon the other such that the second surface of chip confronts the first surface of chip . Chip may be attached to the chip using an encapsulant material such as an epoxy to thereby hold the chips relative to one another.

The chip is positioned onto chip such the respective contact portions of the chips are not encumbered. For instance as shown in the first edge of chip is positioned within the central portion of chip . The first edge of chip may be parallel with first edge of chip when the chips are placed in position. In this configuration the contact portion of chip overlies the central portion of chip . And the central portion of chip overlies the remote portion of chip . The remote portion of chip extends outwardly beyond second edge of chip . By placing the first edge of chip in line with the central portion of chip an off set stack or staircase configuration is achieved. This off set stack configuration enables both the contacts of chip and contacts of chip to be exposed at their respective surfaces without being encumbered by additional objects. This allows the contacts to be electrically connected to additional devices as will be described below. The combination of chip and chip connected together forms a subassembly .

Referring to the microelectronic package includes a substrate such as dielectric element that has a first surface and an oppositely facing second surface . The dielectric element may be rigid or flexible. The dielectric element may be comprised of a polyimide or other polymeric sheet. Although the thickness of the dielectric element may vary the dielectric element most typically is about 10 100 thick. The dielectric element may include a plurality of conductive elements such as bond pads traces and conductive posts . The bond pads traces and conductive posts may be created using the methods illustrated in commonly assigned U.S. Published application Ser. No. 11 014 439 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein. In the particular embodiment illustrated the conductive elements are disposed on the second surface of dielectric element . However in other embodiments the conductive elements may extend on the first surface of dielectric element on both the first and second surfaces or within the interior of the dielectric element. Thus as used in this disclosure a statement that a first feature is disposed on a second feature should not be understood as requiring that the first feature lie on a surface of the second feature. Additionally descriptive words such as top bottom upper and lower are used only for illustration purposes.

At least some of the bond pads are electrically connected to at least some of the traces which in turn are electrically connected to at least some of the conductive posts . This creates a plurality of continuous lines of electrically connected elements thereby electrically connecting each of the elements within each continuous line. Bond pads traces and conductive posts may be formed from any electrically conductive material but most typically are formed from copper copper alloys gold or combinations of these materials. The thickness of the bond pads and traces will vary but typically are about 5 25 . The conductive posts extend downwardly from the dielectric element . The dimensions of the conductive posts can vary over a significant range but most typically the height hof each conductive post below the second surface of the dielectric element sheet is about 50 300 .

Dielectric element may include a plurality of holes as shown in extending from the first surface of the dielectric element to the second surface . In one aspect of the present invention the subassembly is attached to the dielectric element such that the contact portions of the respective chips are aligned with the holes of the dielectric element as shown in . The subassembly and specifically the first surface of chip may be attached to the first surface of dielectric element using an epoxy such as encapsulant material . In this configuration the contacts of chips are aligned with holes .

To electrically connect the subassembly to the bond pads a connection element such as wire leads may be utilized. A first end of each wire lead is attached to a single contact pad . Each wire lead extends downwardly from a respective bond pad and through one of the holes . The opposite end of each wire lead is attached to a single bond pad . Thus the wire leads place individual contact pads into electrical communication with individual bond pads . And since the bond pads are electrically connected to the conductive posts via the traces the contact pads are also in electrical connection with the conductive posts . When connecting the wire leads to bond pads the wire leads have portions extending below the bond pads and below the dielectric element but not as low as the lowest ends of the conductive posts . The portions of the wire leads below the dielectric element are exaggerated in the figures so as to highlight this feature. Once the wire leads have been correctly assembled an encapsulant material is disposed over the wire leads to provide rigidity to the wire leads as well as to protect them from damage. The encapsulant material may extend within the holes and also maintains separation between adjacent wire leads . The encapsulant material also projects below the dielectric element but not as low as the lowest ends of the conductive posts .

The microelectronic package may also include a solder mask layer disposed over various electrical conductive features as known to those in the art.

With reference to the holes in the microelectronic package comprise a plurality of openings each aligned with contact portions of chips respectively. The holes are large enough so that more than one wire lead may extend from a respective contact to a respective bond pad . Each bond pad is attached to a trace which is itself attached to a conductive post thereby electrically connecting a respective contact of a chip to a conductive post.

A first set of conductive posts is arranged adjacent edge of dielectric element . And a second set of conductive posts are arranged adjacent edge of dielectric element . By placing conductive posts on both sides of holes the microelectronic package is balanced and can easily be mounted to an additional substrate such as a circuit panel or the like.

Microelectronic package also includes a ground conductive post A. Ground conductive post A is electrically connected to a ground contact as for instance ground contact A of chip and ground contact A of chip . The elements are connected using ground wire leads A which are both attached to a ground bond pad A and subsequently a ground trace A. The ground wire leads A ground bond pad A and ground trace A are similar to their respective non ground counterpart elements but the ground elements enable the chips to be grounded to a ground contact pad on a circuit panel. Although not shown a ground plate may also be provided to aid in the grounding of chips . The ground plate may be positioned between chips or on top below the chips . In addition a single ground plate may be utilized by both chips or a single ground plate may be supplied for each chip.

As shown in microelectronic package may have a center line C which passes through a center axis of the package. The center line C is positioned between ends of dielectric element . As shown in chip is offset from center line C in that the chip extends more toward end than toward end . Holes is positioned between center line C and end .

After the microelectronic package is constructed the microelectronic package may be attached to a circuit panel as shown in . In order to attach the microelectronic package to the circuit panel the conductive post and ground conductive post A of microelectronic package are brought proximate to contact pads exposed at a surface of the circuit panel . The ground conductive posts A is brought proximate a ground contact pad A. Once in proximity an electrically conductive material such as a solder may be placed between the contact pads A and conductive posts A so as to create an electrical connection. Even though the curved portions of the wire leads extend downwardly below the dielectric element and even below the solder mask layer the curved portions remain remote from the circuit panel because of the height created between the solder mask layer and circuit panel by the conductive posts A.

In alternate embodiments of the present invention the microelectronic package may have a different configuration. For instance as illustrated in microelectronic package B is similarly constructed to microelectronic package except that dielectric element B of microelectronic package B only includes a single hole B. The single hole B underlies most of the contact portions B B of chips B B. And all of the contacts B B of chips B B are exposed through hole B. Hole B extends in a longitudinal direction that is parallel to first edge B of chip B.

The single hole B is equivalent to the plurality of holes in microelectronic package . Similar to microelectronic package the contacts B B of microelectronic package B are electrically connected to bond pads B by wire leads B. And subsequently bond pads B are electrically connected to traces B and conductive posts B. By providing a single hole all of the wire leads B connecting contacts B B to bond pads B pass through the same opening.

In addition microelectronic package B differs from microelectronic package in that most of the conductive post B are positioned remote from hole B and adjacent edge B of dielectric element B. Although the conductive posts B adjacent edge B are illustrated aligned with one another they may be staggered so as to allow more conductive posts to be placed within an area.

In another aspect of the present invention as shown in the bond pads C may be on both sides of hole C as opposed to only one side. Microelectronic package C shown in is similar to previous embodiments discussed herein except for the different arrangement of the conductive features disposed on the dielectric element C. For instance unlike previous embodiments the bond pads C of microelectronic package C are disposed on both sides of hole C thereby allowing the wire leads C which connect the bond pads C to contacts C C of chips C C respectively to extend about both sides of the hole C. Once again hole C is can be aligned with contact portions C C of chips C C such that the contacts C C are accessible. Although only two bond pads C are shown adjacent edge C of dielectric element C various alternate embodiments may be constructed which are more symmetrical.

In one aspect of the present invention two microelectronic packages may be stacked one on top of another. For instance a staggered stack pack is shown in having two microelectronic packages A. Microelectronic packages A are similar to microelectronic package discussed herein but additional embodiments may be used without deviating from the scope of the invention. Each of the microelectronic packages A include a first chip A and a second chip A attached to the respective first chip. Each microelectronic packages A further includes a dielectric element A attached to the respective second chips A.

One difference between microelectronic packages and A is that microelectronic package is a left staggered stack package and microelectronic package A is a right staggered stack package. In a left staggered stack package the contact portion of the top chip extends outwardly beyond the left edge of the bottom chip . And the contact portion of the bottom chip is on the left of the chip. In contrast in a right staggered stack package the contact portion A of the top chip A extends outwardly beyond the right edge of the bottom chip A. And the contact portion A of the bottom chip A is on the right of the chip. In addition in a right staggered stack package A holes A are positioned between a center line C and end A of substrate A. Also chip A is offset from the center line C towards end A. But in a left staggered stack package chip is offset from a centerline C toward end of substrate and holes are positioned between centerline C and end . Of course the order of stacking may be altered.

With reference to it can be observed that a right staggered stack package and a left staggered stack package may be the exact same structure. For instance if microelectronic packages A were both microelectronic packages in a left staggered stack package edge of chip faces out of the page. But in a right staggered stack package edge of chip faces out of the page. Thus the staggered stack pack may be constructed using two identical microelectronic packages.

To create the staggered stack pack microelectronic package is brought proximate to microelectronic package A. The lower ends of conductive posts of microelectronic package are aligned with the top surfaces of the conductive posts A of microelectronic package A. Dielectric element A may include a plurality of vias that expose at least part of the top surfaces of conductive posts A.

With reference still to microelectronic package may be brought proximate to microelectronic package A until the curved portions of microelectronic package which extend downwardly beyond the solder mask layer of microelectronic package also extend downwardly past the second surface A of chip A. Once the right and left staggered stack packages A are in position conductive material such as solder may be disposed in and around the conductive posts and into vias thereby connecting the top surface of conductive posts A to conductive posts . The conductive material not only electrically connects conductive posts to conductive posts A but also provides the framework to hold the microelectronic packages A together such that the staggered stack pack is formed.

By placing a left staggered stack package above or below a right staggered stack package A the overall height of the staggered stack pack may be reduced. This is because the curved portions of wire leads are not required to be disposed higher than the second surface A of chip A and the overall height of the sandwich is lessened.

Referring to a variation of the embodiment shown in is illustrated. The only difference between the embodiment of and is that instead of only encapsulating the wire leads A an encapsulant or overmold may be formed over both wire leads A and exposed surfaces of chips A A . With reference also to the overmold of the left staggered package may extend across an entire length L of the chips as well as the entire width W of the chips . Similarly the overmold deposited on the right staggered package A may extend across an entire length L of the chips A A as well as an entire width not shown of the chips A A. Once the overmold is formed chips A A may be completely encapsulated such that all surfaces are covered. The overmold over the chips may help limit warping of the stack package.

It is to be understood that overmold is a form of encapsulant used to cover wire leads or the like as well as the chips. The overmold may be formed using known methods in the art such as by placing a mold around the desired portions of the chip package and filling the mold with an encapsulant or the like.

In an alternate embodiment with reference to either one or both of the left staggered stacked package and right staggered stack package may include pads as opposed to conductive posts. For instance as shown in right staggered stack package A and left staggered stack package are similarly constructed as packages A. However in left staggered stack package and right staggered stack package A the conductive posts in the previous embodiment have been replaced with contact pads and A. Contact pads A perform similar functions as the conductive posts previously described herein and may be electrically connected to bond pads A via traces A. The contact pads A do not extend downwardly or as long as the conductive posts of the previous embodiment. Therefore when electrically connecting contact pads to contact pads A through vias A in dielectric element A a relatively large mass of electrically conducted material as for instance solder must be employed. The relative size of the mass of solder must be large enough to allow the chips A A to be positioned over a circuit panel but below the left staggered stacked package . Of course by positioning a right staggered stack package A beneath a left staggered stack package the overall height H between a lower surface of the solder mass layer of the left staggered stack package to the first face A of dielectric element A of right staggered stack package A is somewhat less than that which would be required if non altering staggered stack packages were not employed.

Once the staggered stack pack has been constructed by the joining of the right staggered stack package A to left staggered stack package the staggered stack pack may be attached to a circuit panel or circuit board such a circuit panel . To electrically connect the staggered stack package to circuit panel contact pads A are brought in proximity to and aligned with contacts of circuit panel . Once the two elements are aligned a mass of electrically conductive material such as solder may be disbursed in and around both of the contact pads A and contacts to electrically connect the two. The height of the solder must be of sufficient size so that curved portions A of wire leads A which connect on contacts A A to bond pads A remain remote from the surface of the circuit panel .

In an alternate embodiment as shown in the microelectronic package may be constructed having a pins in configuration. Microelectronic package includes a dielectric element having a first surface and an oppositely facing second surface . As with prior embodiments the dielectric element includes bond pads traces and conductive posts . However the conductive posts face inwardly through the dielectric element as opposed to outwardly.

Microelectronic package is essentially similar to previous embodiments and includes chip attached to the dielectric element . The chip includes contacts which are connected to the bond pads using wire leads . And as before the wire leads extend through holes in the dielectric element . Although only one chip is shown microelectronic package as well as other packages discussed herein may include one two or even more chips.

Referring to in an alternative embodiment a package is provided in which four microelectronic elements are arranged in a staggered fashion and conductively connected to the same substrate. As will be described in more detail an overmold can be disposed over both the microelectronic elements such as microchips and conductive connectors such as wire leads.

Referring first to a microelectronic package is shown in accordance with an alternative embodiment of the present invention. The microelectronic package includes substrate including dielectric element that has a first edge an oppositely facing second edge a third edge and oppositely facing fourth edge . The dielectric element also has a top surface an oppositely facing bottom surface and a hole extending between the top surface and bottom surface . Conductive elements may be exposed at both the top surface and bottom surface of the dielectric element such as traces not shown conductive posts solder masses such as solder balls and contact pads . Vias also extend between the top surface and bottom surface .

Referring to a first chip second chip third chip and fourth chip are positioned on the top surface of the dielectric element in a staggered arrangement. Die attach may be used to attach the first chip to the top surface of the dielectric element as well as to attach each of the second third and fourth chips and to the respective adjacent chip.

The fourth chip may also include a top surface bearing electrical contacts such as bond pads exposed thereat and an oppositely facing bottom surface . The fourth chip also includes a first edge a second edge a third edge and a fourth edge each of the edges extending between and connecting the top surface to the bottom surface . The bottom surface of the fourth chip also includes a contact portion adjacent the first edge a remote portion adjacent the second edge and a central portion positioned between the contact portion and the remote portion . Bond pads are positioned adjacent the first edge and the second edge of the fourth chip .

The first second and third chips can be identical to the fourth chip . Each of these chips typically includes a top surface and an oppositely facing bottom surface bearing electrical contacts such as bond pads exposed thereat. The first second and third chips also respectively include a first edge a second edge a third edge and a fourth edge not shown each of the edges extending between and connecting the respective top surfaces to the bottom surfaces . The respective bottom surfaces of the first second and third chips also respectively include a contact portion adjacent the first edge a remote portion adjacent the second edge and a central portion positioned between the contact portion and the remote portion . The contacts are positioned adjacent the first edge in the contact portions of the chip.

The chips are arranged in the same manner as previously disclosed herein the only difference being the addition of the third and fourth chips to the package without the need for an additional dielectric element. As best shown in die attach or a similar material can be disposed between the first second third and fourth chips to attach each of the chips together and to assemble them in a staggered arrangement such as previously disclosed herein.

In the staggered arrangement the first edge of the fourth chip is closer to the first edge of the dielectric element than the first edge of the third chip . Similarly the third chip is closer to the first edge of the dielectric element than the first and second chips . The chips are therefore laterally displaced or offset from one another. It follows that the second edge of the first chip will be closer to the second edge of the dielectric element than the second edges of the second third and fourth chips . Similarly the second chip is closer to the second edge of the dielectric element than the respective second edges of the third and fourth chips . Finally the third chip is also closer to the second edge of the dielectric element than the fourth chip . Thus the staggered arrangement of the chips can make the respective first edges of the first second third and fourth chips respectively and progressively closer to the first edge of the dielectric element . Of course the order of stacking may be altered.

Each of the chips are positioned so that they are not encumbered. Thus as shown in the first edge of the first chip is positioned within the central portion of the second chip . Similarly each of the respective first edges of the second and third chips are adjacent the central portions of the directly adjacent chip or the third and fourth chips . This configuration enables the contacts of the chips to be exposed at their respective surfaces without being encumbered by additional objects.

Referring to the staggered arrangement of the first edges of the first second third and fourth chips is visible through the hole when the bottom surface of the dielectric element . As there is may only be one opening in the substrate each of the exposed second edges of the chips is not seen in this view. It is to be understood that there may also be a plurality of openings within the dielectric element such as previously disclosed herein.

As shown in to electrically connect each of the chips wire leads can be used to connect bond pads on each of the chips to contact pads located on the bottom surface of the dielectric layer . As all four of the chips are staggered and positioned above the hole the wire leads are capable of connecting to the contact pads without encumbering the other wire leads .

With reference to when the wire leads are attached an overmold can be disposed over each of the chips and the respective wire leads . Referring to an overmold is shown disposed across and beyond the first second third and fourth edges of the first second third and fourth chips that are positioned on the top surface of the dielectric element. In the staggered arrangement of the chips the overmold may begin adjacent to the first edge of the fourth chip and extend to at least adjacent the second edge of the first chip . The overmold may also extend beyond the portion of the dielectric element adjacent the first chip and extends to a point adjacent the solder ball .

As shown the overmold is not distributed over the portions of the dielectric element having solder masses such as solder balls disposed therein such as adjacent the first and second edges of the dielectric element . Thus the overmold does not extend from the first edge to the second edge and only extends from the third edge to the fourth edge except for the portions having the solder balls disposed thereon .

In a particular embodiment the overmold decreases in thickness at the portion where the first second third and fourth chips decrease in height. In other words the decrease in thickness can occur at any point where the overmold is distributed such as for example at some point where the second edges of the chips are staggered. For example the thickness of the overmold may be decreased at or near the second edge of the second chip . This decrease in thickness creates a first step between the outer left edge of the overmold and the point where the overmold decreases in thickness and a second step between the point where the overmold decreases in thickness and the outer right edge of the overmold . Although not required approximately 80 of the overmold is thicker or higher than the remaining 20 which is adjacent the second edge of the dielectric element.

Referring to overmold is also disposed on the bottom surface of the dielectric element . The overmold extends over the wire leads that are exposed through the hole . The outer left edge of the overmold on the bottom surface is may be aligned with the outer left edge of the overmold on the top surface of the dielectric element . The outer right edge of the overmold on the bottom surface may extend beyond the contact pads to which the wire leads are connected.

Referring to a plan view showing only the profile of the overmold without the chips demonstrates a cross sectional profile of the package with overmolding. The first and second steps created on the top surface of the dielectric element by the overmold as well as the step created on the bottom surface of the dielectric element are illustrated.

In another aspect of the invention as best shown in a first 4 chip stack package subassembly may be combined with a second 4 chip stack package subassembly to form an 8 chip stack package . The first and second 4 chip stack packages may be identical to the 4 chip stack package disclosed in although any combination of multi chip packages may be used in accordance with the present invention. The first subassembly includes a dielectric element having a hole extending through the top surface and bottom surface of the dielectric element as well as conductive elements such as traces not shown contact pads and conductive posts . A chip subassembly comprised of four staggered chips first chip second chip third chip fourth chip such as the staggered arrangements disclosed herein overlies the hole . To electrically connect the chip subassembly wire leads extend from bond pads on the bottom surfaces of the respective chips to the respective contact pads on the bottom surface of the dielectric element . Overmold is disposed over each of the chips and the wire leads . As in the previously disclosed embodiments a first step and second step are created by the differing mold thicknesses.

The second 4 chip stack package subassembly is identical to the first 4 chip stack package subassembly . The second 4 chip stack package subassembly also includes a dielectric element having a hole extending through the top surface and bottom surface of the dielectric element as well as conductive elements such as traces not shown contact pads and conductive posts . A chip subassembly comprised of four staggered chips such as the staggered arrangements disclosed herein overlies the hole . Wire leads also extend from bond pads exposed at the bottom surfaces of the respective chips to the respective contact pads on the bottom surface of the dielectric element . First and second steps are also created due to the differing mold thicknesses.

In both the first and second 4 chip stack package subassemblies an overmold is disposed over both the chip subassemblies and wire leads . The overmold helps to provide warpage control for the subassemblies.

To assemble the 8 chip stack package the second subassembly is rotated 180 with respect to the first subassembly . In its rotated position the overmold covering the wire leads extending through the hole in the second subassembly is adjacent the overmold covering the chip subassembly positioned on the first subassembly .

To electrically connect the first subassembly and the second subassembly conductive columns extend between them. The conductive columns are can be made in accordance with the methods that will be more fully described herein. Due to the presence of the conductive columns a clearance is created between the top surface of the dielectric element of the first subassembly and the bottom surface of the dielectric element of the second subassembly . Additionally there may be clearance between the top surface of the overmold above the fourth chip on the first subassembly and the bottom surface of the dielectric element of the second subassembly .

The 8 chip stack package can be electrically connected to a circuit board by an additional layer of conductive interconnects or posts extending from the bottom surface of the dielectric element of the first subassembly . The conductive posts are soldered to contact pads on the circuit board to form a conductive column using methods that will e more fully described herein.

Referring also to a plan view is shown that only illustrates the profile of the overmold i.e. without the chip subassemblies . This view demonstrates how the overmold can help to provide for the staggered and interfitted arrangement of the first and second subassemblies so as to reduce the overall height of the 8 chip stack package . The bottom step covering a portion of the bottom surface of the second subassembly is proximate the first step of the overmold on the top surface of the first subassembly . Similar to the gap or opening there is a gap or opening created in the space between the left edge of the step on the bottom surface of the second subassembly and the right edge of the first step on the top surface of the first dielectric element . It should be appreciated that the gap may be reduced or enlarged. The first and second steps in the overmold of the first subassembly provide for an overall 8 chip stack package that is can be at least less than 1 mm or 0.98 mm.

Referring to an alternative embodiment is shown. A first 4 chip stack package subassembly and an identical second 4 chip stack package subassembly are stacked directly on top of one another. The first subassembly includes a substrate such as dielectric element having a top surface and an oppositely facing bottom surface . The dielectric element may include a plurality of conductive elements such as contact pads traces not shown and conductive posts that are exposed at either the top surface or bottom surface of the dielectric element .

A chip subassembly may be comprised of a first chip second chip third chip and fourth chip are disposed above the top surface of the dielectric element . As in the previous embodiments the chip subassembly is constructed and arranged in a staggered fashion. As shown each of the chips and are positioned face up such that the bond pads are exposed. Wire leads extend across only one edge of the chips and connect to contact pads extending along the top surface of the dielectric element . The orientation of each of the chips in the face up position eliminates the need for an opening or hole in the dielectric element for the wire leads to pass through such as required by previous embodiments .

A second 4 chip stack package subassembly having a structure like that of subassembly is positioned above the first 4 chip stack package subassembly . As each of the chips in the chip subassembly are also in a face up position and the wire leads do not extend below the top surface of the second subassembly the second subassembly does not need to be rotated in order to be stacked on top of the first 4 chip stack package subassembly.

The resulting 8 chip stack package can be connected to a circuit board . Conductive posts extending from the bottom surface of the dielectric element of the first subassembly are connected to contact pads on the circuit board using solder. The standoff or vertical height H of the conductive columns is less than the vertical height H between the dielectric elements of the first and second subassemblies . In the absence of a need to provide additional height to accommodate the height of the chip subassembly the height of the conductive columns between the first subassembly and the circuit board need only be large enough to accommodate the size of the conductive post . Alternatively the first subassembly may simply be attached to the circuit board using just a solder connection such as a solder ball i.e. without conductive post employing typical methods of solder attachment such as those known in the art.

It is to be understood that in alternative embodiments of the present invention the conductive columns are not limited to being positioned adjacent the wire leads extending from the chip subassembly which in the previous examples is also adjacent the first and second edges of the dielectric element . The conductive columns may instead be arranged such that they are not in close proximity to the wire leads extending from the chips and adjacent the third and fourth edges of the dielectric element. For example with reference to an alternative 8 chip stack package A is shown. The 8 chip stack package A is identical to the 8 chip stack package shown in the only difference being that the conductive columns A are positioned adjacent the third edge facing out of the drawing figure and fourth edge not shown of the dielectric elements A A. In other words the conductive columns A are not directly adjacent the contact pads A to which the wire leads A are connected. In still another alternative arrangement not shown the conductive columns A may also be arranged adjacent all four edges of the dielectric elements A A and chip subassemblies A A.

Referring to an embodiment is shown including an alternative 4 chip stack package subassembly. With reference to showing a perspective view of the chip subassembly on the dielectric element the 4 chip stack package subassembly includes a substrate such as dielectric element having a top surface and an oppositely facing bottom surface . The dielectric element can include a first edge second edge third edge and fourth edge as well as a plurality of conductive elements such as contact pads and traces not shown on the top surface and conductive posts that are may be exposed at the bottom surface of the dielectric element .

Like the previous embodiments the 4 chip stack package subassembly includes a chip subassembly may include a first chip second chip third chip and fourth chip disposed on the top surface of the dielectric element . Each of the chips respectively have a top surface bearing electrical contacts such as bond pads exposed there at and an oppositely facing bottom surface . As shown in the fourth chip also includes a first edge a second edge a third edge and a fourth edge each of the edges extending between and connecting the top surface to the bottom surface . The top surface of the fourth chip also includes contact portions respectively adjacent the first edge and the second edge and a central portion positioned between the contact portions . The bond pads are positioned adjacent the first edge and the second edge in the contact portions of the fourth chip . The first second and third chips similarly include a contact portion adjacent the respective first edges and second edges and a central portion positioned between the contact portions . Unlike the previous arrangements the chips may be stacked directly on top of one another instead of being staggered. The first edge of the first chip is aligned with the first edge of the second chip . The second edge of the first chip is also aligned with the second edge of the second chip . Similarly each of the first edges and second edges of the third and fourth chips are may be aligned with one another as well as in alignment with the first edges and second edges of the first and second chips .

Each of the chips can be electrically connected to contact pads aligned along and adjacent the first edge and second edge of the first chip . The contact pads may also be aligned with one another although any configuration is contemplated by the scope of the invention. Wire leads extend from bond pads on each of the first edges and second edges of the respective chips to the contact pads on the top surface of the dielectric element . The wire leads therefore extend across each of the first edges and second edges of the respective chips and connect to the contact pads . In this embodiment the wire leads on the fourth chip extend across the first edge and second edge of the first second and third chips . The wire leads on the third chip will extend across the first edges and second edges of the first and second chips .

In order to assemble the chip subassembly on the dielectric element wire leads must be placed on each respective chip prior to the stacking of the next chip. The first chip is can be adhered to the dielectric element using die attach not shown or the like. Once the first chip is in place the wire leads are attached to the bond pads on the first chip and to contact pads on the top surface of the dielectric element . A spacer is then placed onto the central portion of the first chip . Any conventional spacer known in the art may be used to provide a space or clearance between the first chip and the second chip . Such spacers may include silicon or a thin polyimide although known materials capable of spacing the chips a predetermined distance and that are capable of providing sufficient space to accommodate the wire leads are acceptable. As shown the spacer does not extend to the first and second edges of the first chip so as to provide sufficient space for the wire leads and bond pads that are adjacent the first and second edges of the respective chips. Once the spacer is in place the bottom surface of the second chip is positioned on the top surface of the first spacer . Wire leads may then be used to connect the bond pads on the second chip to the contact pads on the top surface of the dielectric element .

The third and fourth chips are similarly arranged. A second spacer is positioned on the central region of the top surface of the second chip . The third chip is then positioned on the top surface of the second spacer . Wire leads are used to connect bond pads on the third chip to the contact pads on the top surface of the dielectric element . Finally a third spacer is positioned on the central portion of the third chip . The bottom surface of the fourth chip is then positioned adjacent the top surface of the third spacer . Wire leads are applied to bond pads on the third chip to the contact pads on the dielectric element .

Once the wire leads are appropriately attached an overmold can be used to encapsulate both the wire leads and the chip subassembly . With reference to the overmold may extend from the third edge of the dielectric element to the fourth edge of the dielectric element. The overmold may be distributed so that it does not extend across the first and second edges of the dielectric element . Instead it extends from adjacent the third edges of the respective chips to adjacent the fourth edges remainder of edges now shown of the respective chips. The overmold may create a planar rectangle having first second third and fourth edges . In a preferred arrangement a 4 chip stack package can have a reduced total body thickness of at least 0.4735 mm. For example if each of the chips has a thickness of approximately 50 micrometers each of the spacers has a thickness of 50 micrometers the die attach is 12.5 micrometers thick and the overmold is 75 micrometers thick the overall height of the 4 chip stack package can be 0.4375 mm.

It is to be understood that in alternative arrangements the wire leads may also extend from the third edges and or fourth edges not shown of the chips i.e. the edges of the chips that are not adjacent the solder balls to contacts not shown exposed at the third and fourth edges of the dielectric element or the edges of the dielectric element that are not adjacent the solder balls . In such an arrangement the only difference is that the spacers must not extend adjacent to the third edges and or fourth edges remainder not shown of the respective chips so as to allow space for bond pads and wire leads that will be positioned adjacent the third and fourth edges of the chips.

In another aspect of the invention with reference to the 4 chip stack subassembly can be stacked with an identical second 4 chip stack subassembly to form an 8 chip stack package . As the second 4 chip stack subassembly is identical in shape and size to the first 4 chip stacked subassembly it can be positioned directly above the first 4 chip stack subassembly . As shown in conductive posts extending from the bottom surface of the dielectric element of the second subassembly contact solder balls positioned on the top surface of the first subassembly to form conductive columns or joints. The conductive columns or joints can be formed using methods that will be more fully described herein.

Referring to the 8 chip stack package may be connected to a circuit board . Conductive posts extending from the bottom surface of the dielectric element of the first subassembly may connect to solder balls disposed on contact pads on the circuit board to create conductive columns . The conductive columns may be created using methods that will be described in more detail below. The heights of the resulting conductive column between the first dielectric element and the circuit board is smaller than the heights of the conductive columns extending between the first and second subassemblies . The differing height is due to the need for the standoff or height H between the first and second subassemblies to be large enough to accommodate the chip subassembly of the first subassembly .

In another aspect of the present invention methods of forming conductive columns to achieve package on package stacking with increased height are disclosed. With reference still to conductive columns may be formed from the union of conductive posts and solder. Such conductive columns both increase the standoff or vertical distance between two chip packages while at the same time allowing for a decrease in the pitch or the center to center horizontal distance between conductive columns. The ability to increase the distance between chip packages provides the needed space to accommodate a plurality of chips on one dielectric element such as the 4 chip stack package disclosed herein.

The dimensions of the conductive posts used to help form the conductive columns can vary over a significant range but most typically the height of each conductive post above the surface of the dielectric substrate is about 50 300 m. Such conductive posts may have a height that is greater than its width.

The conductive posts may be made from any electrically conductive material such as copper copper alloys gold and combinations thereof. The conductive posts may include at least an exposed metal layer that is wettable by solder. For example the posts may be formed principally from copper with a layer of gold at the surfaces of the posts. Additionally the conductive posts may include at least one layer of metal having a melting temperature that is greater than a melting temperature of the solder to which it will be joined. For example such conductive posts would include a layer of copper or be formed entirely of copper.

Exemplary processes and posts are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 884 709 and Provisional Application No. 60 875 730 the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference. For example the conductive posts may be formed by etching processes. Alternatively conductive posts may be formed by electroplating in which posts are formed by plating a metal onto a base metal layer through openings patterned in a dielectric layer such as a photoresist layer.

Additionally the conductive posts may also take on many different shapes including frustoconical so that the base and tip of each post are substantially circular. The bases of the posts typically are about 100 600 m in diameter whereas the tips typically are about 40 200 m in diameter. Each conductive post may have a base adjacent the dielectric substrate and a tip remote from the dielectric substrate.

Referring still to the 8 chip stack package is shown just prior to joining of the first 4 chip stack package subassembly with the second 4 chip stack package subassembly . The second subassembly is positioned so that conductive posts extending from the second subassembly are aligned with the solder balls on the first subassembly . The conductive posts may then placed in close proximity to the solder balls on the contact pads exposed at the top surface of the dielectric element of the first subassembly . the solder is then reflowed so that the solder wets the conductive posts on the second subassembly . In a preferred embodiment the conductive posts contact the solder balls such that at least a portion of the conductive posts is in direct contact with the reflowed solder balls . The conductive posts need only briefly contact the reflowed solder as the solder will then wet the exposed walls and tips of the entire conductive post . This is due to the ability of the rewetting force of the solder to overcome the surface tension on the conductive posts . Alternatively substantially the entire conductive post may be placed into the reflowed solder balls to ensure that the solder contacts those portions of the metal posts that need to be wetted.

Once the solder wets the metal post a column shaped joint or conductive column is created. With reference to an exploded and detailed view of the conductive column of conductive column can be formed in the shape of an hour glass such that the top solder region contacting the conductive post and the bottom solder region contacting the contact pad on the first subassembly have greater width W than the width M of the middle region of the solder. It is to be understood that the widths W do not need to be equal and that the height at the top solder region may be greater than the bottom solder region or vice versa. The conductive column allows for improved package on package stacking due to the ability of the conductive column to maintain a column of vertical solder without requiring the need for a larger pitch between each of the conductive columns. This method of creating a conductive column may be utilized in connection with each of the embodiments of the present invention.

In typical applications using only solder connections standoff and pitch are generally interrelated. The greater the standoff the greater the pitch that is necessary. However in another aspect of the invention the creation and use of a conductive column as described herein as opposed to only use of a solder ball connection makes it possible to achieve a greater standoff with a smaller pitch. For example as shown in the chart of if a conductive post is used in connection with a solder ball having a diameter of 0.350 mm prior to reflow and stacking a contact pad having a diameter of 0.280 mm and a pitch between solder balls of 0.5 mm the conductive column is capable of achieving a standoff of 0.392 mm which is greater than half the pitch. It is to be appreciated that the following criteria was used for the information contained in 

In another aspect of the present method of providing for solder connections a reduction in the pad size can also result in a greater standoff. For example referring to if the size of the contact pad is reduced an even greater standoff can be achieved. It is to be appreciated that the following criteria was used for the information contained in 

It should be appreciated that the conductive columns can be utilized in any substrate formation. For example chip packages having as few as one chip per substrate or at least four chips per substrate may be utilized in accordance with the present invention.

As shown in the major surface of the first interconnect element faces upward such that it can be referred to as a top surface. The major surface of the second interconnect element faces downward such that it can be referred to as a bottom surface the bottom surface confronting the top surface of the first interconnect element. A microelectronic element can be conductively connected to the first interconnect element as shown here in a flip chip interconnection although it can be interconnected by other traditional means such as through wire leads. A microelectronic element can also be conductively connected to the first interconnect element in either a flip chip interconnection or traditional wire bonded interconnection or other means. As shown in the microelectronic elements are disposed between the confronting surfaces of the first and second interconnect elements. Alternatively or in addition thereto microelectronic elements can be interconnected to other major surfaces such as a bottom surface of the first interconnect element and a top surface of the second interconnect element.

Conductive columns consisting essentially of solder conductively interconnect conductive features of the first interconnect element with respective conductive features of the second interconnect element. The conductive features typically are solder wettable pads exposed at the respective major surfaces . As shown in the height H of the conductive columns extends between the conductive pads to which the solder is joined. In a particular example each column has a width M at a midpoint between the respective conductive pads. The columns can be formed such that the height H is greater than the width M . In addition the columns can be formed such that the height is greater than half the pitch P as measured between the centers of adjacent columns of the assembly.

Columns can have straight walls convex walls or concave walls . In traditional soldered interconnections solder masses typically have greater width at points between oppositely facing pads to which they are joined. In one example when a 350 m spherical solder ball is reflowed onto a 300 m pad the result is a hemispherical solder bump having a maximum width such as 360 m or greater fused to the pad. Thus the width 360 m of the solder in such interconnection is greater than 1.2 times the width 300 m of the pad as demonstrated by the equation 360 300 1.2. The maximum width occurs at substantial height e.g. 100 m or more above the pad.

In the solder columns shown in the width M of the slightly convex column is less than 1.2 times the width W of the column where joined to the conductive pad. Thus the column may have a somewhat barrel shape but still assist in achieving the foregoing described advantages of enabling a desirable standoff height without having to relax the pitch.

In another example as illustrated in a column is shown having somewhat concave walls . Here the width M of the column at the midpoint between opposing conductive pads is less than the width W of the column at the conductive pad .

A method of conductively joining interconnect elements through conductive solder columns will now be described with reference to . As illustrated in solder balls typically spheres of solder are placed onto solder wettable conductive pads of an interconnect element such as described above . The solder balls can be placed with masses of flux on the conductive pads after which heat is applied causing the solder balls to reflow into hemispherical bumps which wet and fuse to the conductive pads . A second interconnect element A is prepared in like manner. After inverting the second interconnect element A relative to the first interconnect element solder bumps A of the second interconnect element A are aligned with the corresponding solder bumps of the first interconnect element. A flux is provided between opposing solder bumps A of each interconnect element. For example the flux may be provided on the solder bumps A of one or both of the interconnect elements prior to aligning the two interconnect elements as shown. The solder bumps on each of the interconnect elements A may be brought into contact through the flux.

Subsequently heat is applied causing the solder of each of the bumps A to fuse and form columns the columns having characteristics as described above with reference to .

Referring now to in a variation of the above described embodiment masses of conductive paste are extruded onto the conductive pads of an interconnect element . The masses typically are free standing having edges at least substantially exposed. For example screen printing or stencil printing techniques can be used to force quantities of solder containing paste through openings in a screen or a stencil onto the pads . Another interconnect element A is prepared in like manner and then inverted and aligned with the first interconnect element . The masses A of conductive paste on each of the interconnect elements A may be brought into contact and heated to form conductive columns .

Although the invention herein has been described with reference to particular embodiments it is to be understood that these embodiments are merely illustrative of the principles and applications of the present invention. Accordingly numerous modifications may be made to the illustrative embodiments and that other arrangements may be devised without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims.

