---

title: Item selection
abstract: A computing device obtains data representing a plurality of items. A viewport is rendered on a display of the computing device. A portion of a first container element and a portion of a second container element are rendered within the viewport. Selectable visual representations for a first subset of the plurality of items are rendered in the portion of the first container element. The computing device receives a plurality of inputs from the user, each of the plurality of inputs selecting a visual representation of an item from the plurality of items rendered in the first container element. Responsive to receiving each input from the user, another visual representation of each selected item is rendered in the second container element, indicating that the selected item has been selected.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09513770&OS=09513770&RS=09513770
owner: MicroStrategy Incorporated
number: 09513770
owner_city: Vienna
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121102
---
Some electronic devices such as computers and smartphones include a display on which information is presented to a user. Sometimes a graphical user interface GUI is used to present the information.

In a general aspect a computing device obtains data representing a plurality of items. A viewport is rendered on a display of the computing device. A portion of a first container element and a portion of a second container element are rendered within the viewport. The first container element extends beyond a first boundary of the viewport in a first direction and the second container element extends beyond a second boundary of the viewport in a second direction. The first direction is perpendicular to the second direction.

Selectable visual representations for a first subset of the plurality of items are rendered in the portion of the first container element. The first container element includes a first command interface that enables a user to manipulate the first container element along the first direction such that other portions of the first container element beyond the first boundary are rendered within the viewport so as to display selectable visual representations for other subsets of the plurality of items.

The computing device receives a plurality of inputs from the user each of the plurality of inputs selecting a visual representation of an item from the plurality of items rendered in the first container element. Responsive to receiving each input from the user another visual representation of each selected item is rendered in the second container element indicating that the selected item has been selected. At least one of the selected items is within a portion of the second container element that is beyond the second boundary of the viewport. The second container element includes a second command interface that enables a user to manipulate the second container element along the second direction such that the portion of the second container element that is beyond the second boundary is moved within the viewport so as to display the at least one of the selected items that is beyond the second boundary of the viewport.

Implementations may include one or more of the following. The plurality of items may be a plurality of individuals to whom a message is to be sent. The visual representations of the items may be photographs of the individuals that the visual representations represent. The visual representations of the items may be photographs supplied by the individuals that the visual representations represent.

The plurality of items may be a plurality of files available for download. The plurality of items may be a plurality of products available for purchase. A first dimension and a second dimension of the viewport may be fixed. An area of the first container element may be fixed. The second container element may overlay the first container element. The second container element may be a scrollable list.

The visual representations of the selected items rendered in the second container element may be smaller in size than the selectable visual representations rendered in the first container element. The visual representations of the items rendered in the first container element may comprise images and text. The visual representations of the items rendered in the second container may include images while excluding text.

The visual representations of the items rendered in the first container element may be displayed in a grid view. The first container element may comprise a third command interface that enables the user to cause the visual representations of the items rendered in the first container element to be rendered in a list view.

The display may be a touch sensitive display. Receiving at the computing device a plurality of inputs from the user each of the plurality of inputs selecting a visual representation of an item from the plurality of items rendered in the first container element may comprise receiving at the computing device a plurality of touches on the touch sensitive display each of the plurality of touches selecting a visual representation of an item from the plurality of items rendered in the first container element. The operations may comprise receiving at the computing device a drag gesture on the touch sensitive display selecting a previously selected item rendered in the second container element such that the previously selected item is deselected. A visual representation of the previously selected item may be removed from the second container element.

Visual representations of selected items rendered in the first container element may be visually distinguished from visual representations of non selected items rendered in the first container element. The operations may comprise rendering adjacent to the second container element a representation of a total number of selected items.

Implementations of the above techniques include a method a computer readable medium and a system. The computer readable medium stores instructions executable by one or more processors. The instructions when executed are configured to cause the one or more processors to perform the above described actions. The system includes one or more processors and instructions embedded in a non transitory machine readable medium that are executable by the one or more processors. The instructions when executed are configured to cause the one or more processors to perform the above described actions.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other potential features and aspects will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Sometimes a user of an electronic device such as for example a computer or a smartphone may wish to perform a bulk operation on items shown by the electronic device. For example the user may pull up an address book application on the electronic device in order to select contacts from the address book to whom to send a group message. The address book of the user may include a large number of entries such that not all entries may be visible to the user at the same time on the limited display area of the electronic device. Therefore the user may have to scroll through the address book viewing portions of the address book at a time on the display of the electronic device and selecting contacts from the viewed portions. However as the address book is scrolled some of the selected contacts may move out of view. Consequently the user may not remember all of the contacts that the user has selected. In addition if the user wants to remove a selected contact there may not be any convenient way to do so except to scroll back through the address book to the portion of the address book that includes the contact to be removed.

In some implementations an interface may be provided on a display associated with an electronic device that enables a user to select items from among a collection of a large number of items while simultaneously displaying at least some of the selected items. The items may be for example contacts from an address book application. The interface may show several panels simultaneously on the display of the electronic device. In a first panel the interface may provide a view of visual representations of items from the collection of items. If the number of items in the collection is relatively large the view of the first panel at any given time only may display visual representations of a subset of less than all of the items in the collection. In a second panel the interface may provide a view of visual representations of items that have been selected for example by a user of the electronic device . The second panel may enable easy identification of the items that have been selected even when the currently displayed view of the first panel does not include visual representations of any of the items that have been selected.

In the discussion that follows a user operating an electronic device also may be referred to as an operator of the electronic device. In addition the term interface may refer to a GUI or a portion of a GUI that is shown on the display of an electronic device. Furthermore references to an item and to a visual representation of the item may be used interchangeably.

In some implementations the display associated with the electronic device may have a limited dimension such that the entire interface may not be visible simultaneously on the display of the electronic device. In such implementations only a portion of the interface may be viewable on the display at a time. The portion of the interface that is viewable on the display may be referred to as a viewport.

Each of the views and includes a header panel that is fixed across the different views and that includes a selectable icon . In addition each of the views and includes a scrollable selection panel that displays respective subsets and of visual representations of users belonging to the collection of users including for example users and . The scrollable selection panel also may be referred to as a container element.

The GUI including views and may be presented on the display of an electronic device. The electronic device may be for example a mobile device such as a mobile phone a smartphone a tablet computer a notebook or laptop computer an e book reader a music player and so forth. Alternatively the electronic device may be a desktop computer or any other appropriate portable or stationary computing device. The electronic device may include a display such as a Liquid Crystal Display LCD or a Light Emitting Diode LED display with a glass screen.

The electronic device may include a processor. The electronic device also may include storage memory such as for example a magnetic disk drive or flash memory which stores data and instructions. The instructions may be written in any suitable programming language for example machine level code C Objective C C Java Perl or HTML among others. The processor may be configured to execute the instructions for performing various operations such as input output communication data processing software execution and the like. For example the processor may execute instructions that provides the GUI with the views and on the display of the electronic device.

The instructions executed by the processor also may enable a person to interact with the electronic device for modifying the view of the GUI that is presented on the display and for performing various operations using the visual representations of the users that are shown. In some implementations the operator of the electronic device may interact with the electronic device using a keyboard a mouse and or a trackball. Additionally or alternatively the display may be implemented as a proximity sensitive display for example a touchscreen such that the operator may interact with the electronic device by gesturing on or within a vicinity of the surface of the display using a suitable input mechanism such as touching or tapping with a finger or stylus.

The visual representations of the users in the views and may be based on information that is locally present in the electronic device. For example the users may be family friends or other acquaintances of the operator of the electronic device and information associated with the users may be present in a list of contacts such as a software address book application that is stored in the storage memory of the electronic device. The information may include photographs of the users versions of which may be shown in the visual representations.

Alternatively the visual representations of the users in the views and may be based on information that is stored by a remote server. For example the users may be connected to the operator of the electronic device in a social networking platform and the visual representations of the users may be drawn from a server associated with the social networking platform. The electronic device may establish a communication channel with the server and obtain information about the users including photographs of or otherwise associated with the users for example using suitable application programming interfaces APIs provided by the social networking platform.

The views and may be presented on the display of the electronic device to allow the operator of the electronic device to select one or more of the users for example as recipients of an electronic message by interacting with the visual representations that correspond to the users to be selected. In some implementations the GUI may be presented on the electronic device to enable the operator to select one or more users to whom to send an invitation to an event.

The display of the electronic device may have limited dimensions such that only a portion of the collection of users can be shown on the display at a time. As illustrated in the subset of visual representations of users shown in view is different from the subset of visual representations of users shown in view which is different from the subset of visual representations of users shown in view . For example the subset of the visual representations of users shown in view includes visual representations of users and which are not shown in the subset of visual representations of users shown in view or the subset of visual representations of users shown in view . The subset of visual representations of users shown in view and the subset of visual representations of users shown in view both include the visual representation of user which is absent from the subset of visual representations of users shown in view . The subset of visual representations of users shown in view also includes the visual representation of user which is not shown in the subset of visual representations of users shown in view .

As illustrated in the views and of the GUI suggest that at their current scale visual representations of all of the users within the collection of users cannot be displayed within the boundaries of the scrollable selection panel concurrently. For example each of the views and of the GUI shows portions of visual representations that have been cut off which may imply to the operator of the electronic device that there are more visual representations than can be fully shown at one time in the scrollable selection panel.

The operator can cause the scrollable selection panel to display different subsets of the visual representations by scrolling the scrollable selection panel up and down. For example for a touchscreen display the operator may use a finger to perform a swiping or flicking gesture for example up or down on the area of the display corresponding to the scrollable selection panel which causes the electronic device to scroll the scrollable selection panel in the direction of movement of the finger.

Depending on the operator interaction the electronic device may change the subset of visual representations of users shown in the scrollable selection panel. Some visual representations of users that were previously shown only in part may be caused to be shown in full based on the scrolling of the scrollable selection panel performed in response to the input by the operator of the electronic device. For example as illustrated in only a portion of the visual representation of user is shown in view . However as illustrated in when the scrollable selection panel is scrolled in an upward direction relative to the full visual representation of user comes into view as shown in view . Furthermore visual representations of users that previously were not shown at all now may be shown based on the scrolling of the scrollable selection panel performed in response to the input by the operator of the electronic device. For example the operator may cause the electronic device to scroll the scrollable selection panel further upward to display additional visual representations of users that previously were not shown at all. As illustrated in when the scrollable selection panel is scrolled further in an upward direction relative to visual representations of users that were not shown at all in view may be shown in view and or view including for example the visual representation of user

The views and show the visual representations of the users arranged in a grid pattern. Each visual representation includes an image corresponding to the represented user for example a photograph of or otherwise associated with the represented user along with some other identifying information presented below the image such as for example the name of the represented user. In cases where images corresponding to one or more of the represented users are not available generic images such as for example outlines of human heads may be displayed in place of images corresponding to the represented users.

The visual representations of users may be shown in arrangements other than a grid. For example the visual representations of the users may be as arranged in a list pattern. For example referring to the operator may change the arrangement of the visual representations from the grid pattern to a list pattern by selecting icon . For a touchscreen display the operator may select the icon by touching or tapping on an area of the display that corresponds to the icon .

Each view and includes a header panel that is fixed across the different views and that includes a selectable icon . In addition each of the views and includes a scrollable selection panel that displays respective subsets and of visual representations of users belonging to the collection of users including for example users and . Each visual representation includes an image associated with the corresponding user and additional identifying information. For example the visual representation of user includes an image associated with user and a name for user . In cases where images corresponding to one or more of the represented users are not available generic images such as for example outlines of human heads may be displayed in place of images corresponding to the represented users.

As illustrated in the views and of the GUI also suggest that visual representations of all of the users of the collection of users are not displayed within the area available for display of the scrollable selection panel concurrently. For example each of the views and shows a visual representation of a user that has been cut off such as for example the visual representation of user shown in view which imply to the operator that there are more visual representations of users than can be fully shown at one time in the scrollable selection panel. The operator can cause the scrollable selection panel to display additional visual representations of users by scrolling the scrollable selection panel up or down. Depending on the operator interaction the subset of visual representations shown in the scrollable selection panel may change for example from the subset of visual representations shown in view to the subset of visual representations shown in view .

When the operator switches the arrangement of the visual representations of users from the grid pattern to the list pattern the visual representations of users that are shown in the view of the scrollable selection panel in the list pattern may be same as or overlap with the visual representations that were shown in the view of the scrollable selection panel in the grid pattern at the time the operator performed the switch. In some implementations the subset of visual representations of users shown in the view of the scrollable selection panel in the grid pattern may be larger than the subset of visual representations of users that is shown in the view of scrollable selection panel in the list pattern. In such implementations the view of the scrollable selection panel in the list pattern may show some of the visual representations that are displayed in the view of the scrollable selection panel in the grid pattern at the time the operator performed the switch. For example the view of the scrollable selection panel in the list pattern may show the first N where N is a positive integer visual representations of users that are shown in the view of the scrollable selection panel in the grid pattern at the time the operator performed the switch where the view of the scrollable selection panel in the grid pattern displays a number of visual representations of users that is greater than N.

When the visual representations of the users are displayed in the list pattern the operator may change to displaying the visual representations of the users in the grid pattern by selecting the icon in a manner similar to that described above in connection with icon . Therefore the operator may cause the GUI to toggle back and forth between displaying the visual representations of the users in the grid pattern and the list pattern by selecting the icon when the visual representations of the users are displayed in the grid pattern and by selecting the icon when the visual representations of the users are displayed in the list pattern.

The operator can select one or more users while GUI is displaying the visual representations of the users in either the grid pattern or in the list pattern. For example the operator can select a user by selecting the visual representation associated with the user while the visual representation is shown in the view of the scrollable selection panel. For a touchscreen display the operator can select a visual representation by touching or tapping the area of the display corresponding to the desired visual representation.

Referring to responsive to selection of a visual representation of a user by the operator the electronic device on which the GUI is displayed causes the selected visual representation of the user to be emphasized in a suitable manner to indicate that the visual representation of the user has been selected for example by placing a highlight box around the image associated with the represented user or overlaying a small checkmark on the image associated with the represented user or both. In addition the electronic device on which the GUI is displayed causes copies of the images associated with the selected visual representations to be added to the horizontal panel .

For example as illustrated in responsive to operator selection of visual representations and the images associated with the users represented by visual representations and are highlighted and a checkmark is overlaid on the corner of each image. The highlighting and the checkmark applied to the selected visual representations and distinguish the selected visual representations from the unselected visual representations such as for example visual representation . In addition to applying the highlighting and the checkmark to the selected visual representations and copies and of the images associated with the users represented by the selected visual representations and respectively are included in the horizontal panel .

In some implementations the horizontal panel may be displayed when one or more visual representations of users currently are selected otherwise the horizontal panel may not be displayed. For example the view of the GUI illustrated in shows the same subset of visual representations of users as the view of the GUI illustrated in . However in the view of the GUI illustrated in no visual representations of users have been selected and consequently the horizontal panel is not displayed. In some implementations the selection of a visual representation of a user when no other visual representations currently are selected may trigger the display of the horizontal panel .

As illustrated in when the horizontal panel is displayed it may be overlaid on the scrollable selection panel. In some implementations the horizontal panel may be displayed overlaying the bottom of the scrollable selection panel as illustrated in . In other implementations the horizontal panel may be displayed in a different position such as for example overlaying the top of the scrollable selection panel for example adjacent to the header panel . Alternatively the horizontal panel may be displayed at the top of the GUI above the header panel or the horizontal panel may be displayed overlaying the header panel for example occluding the header panel in part or in full . In some other implementations the horizontal panel may be replaced by a vertical panel that is displayed overlaying a section of the scrollable selection panel for example along the left border of the scrollable selection panel or along the right border of the scrollable selection panel .

Depending on the number of users selected the images included in the horizontal panel may not occupy the entire available area of the horizontal panel such that some area of the horizontal panel may remain empty. For example the empty area of the horizontal panel is shown as a blank area . As more users are selected the blank area may be replaced by copies of the images associated with the visual representations of the selected users. For example referring to responsive to operator selection of the additional visual representations of users and copies of the images and associated with the users corresponding to visual representations and are added to the horizontal panel in addition to the copies of the images and that were previously included in the horizontal panel . Therefore the empty area of the horizontal panel shown in is replaced by images associated with currently selected users.

Even when the subset of visual representations shown in the scrollable selection panel changes due to the operator scrolling the scrollable selection panel up or down the display of the horizontal panel is persisted. For example when the operator changes the view of the GUI from the view illustrated in to the view illustrated in by scrolling the scrollable display panel such that the subset of visual representations shown on the scrollable selection panel changes from the subset of visual representations of users to the subset of visual representations of users the display of the horizontal panel is persisted in the view of the GUI. The horizontal panel illustrated in is same as the horizontal panel illustrated in except that the horizontal panel illustrated in includes more images associated with selected users since the operator has selected more visual representations of users from the subset of visual representations of users shown in the view illustrated in . In this manner it may be easy for the operator to identify quickly which users the operator has already selected even if visual representations for the selected users are not displayed in the current view of the scrollable selection panel. For example the horizontal panel in the view of the GUI illustrated in shows an image associated with a currently selected user. However the corresponding visual representation of the user is not included in the subset of visual representations of users displayed on the scrollable selection panel in the view .

In some implementations as users are selected from the scrollable selection panel their associated images are added to the horizontal panel from the right to the left in the order that the users are selected such that the image corresponding to the most recently selected user appears on the far left of the images included the horizontal panel . For example referring to the operator may select visual representations in the sequence followed by followed by . Therefore image corresponding to visual representation appears to the right of the image corresponding to visual representation in the horizontal panel . Similarly image appears to the right of the thumbnail corresponding to visual representation in the horizontal panel . Visual representation is the most recently selected visual representation and hence the image corresponding to visual representation is the leftmost image in the horizontal panel . However in other implementations the images may be added to the horizontal panel from left to the right as users are selected from the scrollable selection panel or the images may be added in some other suitable order.

In some implementations the tile in the horizontal panel displays a count of the number of users that currently are selected. For example in the view of the GUI illustrated in three users currently are selected and the tile displays the digit 3 . Five more users are selected at the time the view of the GUI illustrated in is shown bringing the total count of selected users to eight which is indicated by the tile displaying the digit 8 .

When the number of images corresponding to selected users exceeds the available display area for the horizontal panel a subset of the images corresponding to the selected users may be shown in the horizontal panel . For example in the view of the GUI illustrated in the horizontal panel shows five images even though the tile indicates that eight users currently are selected. The operator may view the images corresponding to selected users that are not displayed currently for example images included within the horizontal panel that are hidden from the present view by scrolling the horizontal panel left and right. For a touchscreen display the operator can scroll the horizontal panel left or right by touching with a finger or stylus an area of the display corresponding to the horizontal panel and flicking or swiping the finger or stylus left or right. For example images and which are shown in the horizontal panel in the view of the GUI illustrated in are not shown in the horizontal panel in the view of the GUI illustrated in since more users have been selected since the selection of the visual representations and that correspond to the images and respectively. The operator may again see the images and by scrolling the horizontal panel from right to left. As illustrated in the view of the GUI illustrated in as the operator scrolls the horizontal panel from right to left the images and are shown again in horizontal panel .

In some implementations the available display area for the horizontal panel may be fixed. Consequently as the operator scrolls the horizontal panel some images that were previously visible within the horizontal panel may become hidden from view. For example the images and which were the leftmost images displayed in the horizontal panel in the view of the GUI illustrated in are no longer seen in the horizontal panel when the operator scrolls the horizontal panel from right to left as seen in the view of the GUI illustrated in . Instead image which was shown in the middle of the horizontal panel in the view of the GUI illustrated in appears as the leftmost displayed image in the horizontal panel in the view of the GUI illustrated in while image which was the rightmost image displayed in the horizontal panel in the view of the GUI illustrated in is shown in the middle of the horizontal panel in the view of the GUI illustrated in . In order to display the images and again the operator can scroll the horizontal panel from the left to the right such that images and are again hidden from view while images and are shown similar to the view of the horizontal panel in the view of the GUI illustrated in .

In some implementations the movement of the scrollable selection panel and the horizontal panel are independent of each other. As such the operator can scroll the scrollable selection panel up or down to display a subset of visual representations of users that do not include any visual representations of users with corresponding images shown in the horizontal panel . Conversely the operator can scroll the horizontal panel left or right to display images that do not correspond to any of the visual representations of users shown at the same time in the scrollable selection panel.

In other implementations the movements of the scrollable selection panel and the horizontal panel are tied to each other. In such implementations as the operator scrolls the scrollable selection panel up or down to change the displayed subset of visual representations of users the horizontal panel also may be scrolled for example left or right to show images that correspond to selected visual representations of users shown in the scrollable selection panel. Conversely as the operator scrolls the horizontal panel left or right to display previously hidden images the scrollable selection panel may be scrolled automatically for example up or down to show selected visual representations that correspond to the images presently shown in the horizontal panel . The rate at which the scrollable selection panel may automatically scroll up or down or the rate at which the horizontal panel may automatically scroll left or right may keep pace with the rate at which the user scrolls the other panel.

The views and of the GUI illustrated in show the visual representations of the users arranged in a grid pattern. The operator can opt to arrange the visual representations of the users in a list pattern by selecting the icon . For example responsive to operator selection of the icon from the view of the GUI illustrated in the electronic device on which the GUI is displayed may cause the GUI to transition to the view illustrated in which shows the subset of visual representations of users arranged in a list pattern. When in the view the operator can switch back to the view by selecting the icon .

In some implementations when the visual representations of users are arranged in the list pattern currently selected users are indicated by a checkmark placed next to the image included in the row entry corresponding to the selected user. For example as illustrated in the visual representation of user currently is selected which is indicated by the checkmark that is included in the row entry corresponding to the visual representation of user

When the operator switches to the view of the GUI illustrated in from the view of the GUI illustrated in the display of the horizontal panel is persisted in the view of the GUI thereby allowing the operator to continue to see the users who have been selected. In addition the operator can make further selections from the subset of visual representations of users at which time the horizontal panel shown in the view of the GUI illustrated in will be updated to display images corresponding to the newly selected users.

The operator may deselect users who have been previously selected. In some implementations the operator may deselect a selected user by selecting the currently selected visual representation corresponding to the user to be deselected. For example illustrate two different views and respectively of an example of a GUI showing the de selection of a user. The GUI may be the same as the GUI shown in the GUI shown in and or the GUI shown in and the GUI may be displayed on the same electronic device that displays the GUI shown in the GUI shown in and or the GUI shown in

The view of the GUI illustrated in includes a subset of visual representations of users belonging to the collection of users including for example a visual representation of a user who has been selected by the operator. In addition the view of the GUI illustrated in includes a horizontal panel that shows images corresponding to currently selected users such as images and and a tile . The view of the GUI illustrated in shows the same subset of visual representations of users belonging to the collection of users as the view of the GUI illustrated in but the visual representation of user has been deselected by the operator. The view of the GUI illustrated in also shows a the horizontal panel that images corresponding to selected users such as images and but notably not image and a tile .

In the view of the GUI illustrated in the visual representation of user is selected such that a copy of the image associated with the selected user is included in the horizontal panel . In some implementations the operator may deselect the user represented by visual representation by selecting the highlighted visual representation of the user in the scrollable selection panel of the view of the GUI illustrated in . For example in a touchscreen display the operator can touch the area of the display corresponding to the highlighted visual representation

When the operator selects the highlighted visual representation of the user the user represented by the visual representation is deselected and the view of the GUI illustrated in transitions to the view of the GUI illustrated in in which the visual representation of user is no longer highlighted. In addition as further illustrated in the copy of the image associated with the user represented by visual representation is automatically removed from the horizontal panel . Consequently the images corresponding to currently selected users in the horizontal panel have moved one place to the left such that image which was hidden from view in the horizontal panel in the view of the GUI illustrated in now appears as the rightmost image in the horizontal panel in the view of the GUI illustrated in . The total count of selected visual representations drops by one when visual representation is deselected. Consequently while the tile shown in the view of the GUI illustrated in shows the total count of selected users as 8 the tile shown in the view of the GUI illustrated in shows the total count of selected users as 7.

A selected user may be deselected in other manners apart from the one described above. For example in some implementations the GUI may enable the operator to deselect a user by dragging the image corresponding to the user to be deselected that is displayed in the horizontal panel out of the horizontal panel . In this context dragging an image may refer to selecting an image and while the image is selected moving the image outside of the boundaries of the horizontal panel . For example the operator may drag the thumbnail from the horizontal panel to the area of the scrollable selection panel in order to deselect the user represented by visual representation

In some implementations the GUI may enable the operator to change the view of the GUI to display visual representations of only the currently selected users instead of visual representations of all of the users belonging to the collection. In such implementations this may be performed for example by selecting the tile that is displayed in the horizontal panel for example tile displayed in the horizontal panel of the GUI illustrated in .

For example illustrate two different views and respectively of an example of a GUI showing visual representations of currently selected users from among a collection of users. The views and may be displayed on the same electronic device that shows the views or the views and . The GUI may be same as the GUI shown in the views or the views and . The GUI may be the same as the GUI shown in the GUI shown in the GUI shown in and or the GUI shown in and the GUI may be displayed on the same electronic device that displays the GUI shown in the GUI shown in the GUI shown in and or the GUI shown in .

As illustrated in each of the views and includes a header panel with a tile . In addition each of the views and shows a group of visual representations of selected users including for example visual representations of selected users and . Each visual representation of a selected user also is associated with a delete icon .

The view of the GUI illustrated in displays the visual representations of the selected users in a grid pattern. In some implementations the visual representations of the selected users are shown in a grid pattern as illustrated in if the view of the group of selected users is invoked from a view of the GUI that displays visual representations of users available for selection that arranges the visual representations of the users in the grid pattern. For example the view of the GUI illustrated in may be invoked by selecting the tile in the view of the GUI illustrated in such that the visual representations and of correspond to the visual representations and respectively.

The view of the GUI illustrated in displays the visual representations of the selected users in a list pattern. In some implementations the visual representations of the selected users are shown in a list pattern as illustrated in if the view of the group of selected users is invoked from a view of the GUI that displays visual representations of users available for selection that arranges the visual representations of the users in the list pattern.

A selected user may be deselected from the views and of the GUI illustrated in respectively by selecting the delete icon that is associated with the corresponding visual representation of the user. For example the user may be deselected from the view of the GUI illustrated in by selecting the delete icon that is overlaid on the visual representation of the user . Similarly the user may be deselected from the view of the GUI illustrated in by selecting the delete icon that is shown to the left of the image included in the row entry corresponding to the user . When a user is deselected the visual representation of the user is removed from the view.

The tile shows a count of the total number of currently selected users. In addition the tile may enable the operator to switch back to a view of the GUI showing the scrollable selection panel and the horizontal panel by selecting the tile . In some implementations when the visual representations of the set of selected users are shown in the grid pattern as in the view of the GUI illustrated in selection of the tile causes the view to transition to a view that shows visual representations of users available for selection arranged in a grid pattern in the scrollable selection panel. Similarly in such implementations when the visual representations of the set of selected users are shown in the list pattern as in the view of the GUI illustrated in selection of the tile causes the view to transition to a view that shows visual representations of users available for selection arranged in a list pattern in the scrollable selection panel.

In some cases the number of selected users may be such that the area of the display available for showing visual representations of the selected users may not be sufficient to accommodate simultaneously the visual representations of all the selected users. Consequently some of the visual representations of the selected users may be hidden from view. In such cases the operator may see the visual representations of the selected users that are hidden from view by scrolling the area of the display available for showing visual representations of the selected users.

A collection of items is accessed . For example an operator of the electronic device may wish to send an invitation to a group of users. In order to select the users to whom to send the invitation the operator may invoke an application on the electronic device that is associated with instructions for selecting users to whom to send an invitation from among a collection of users. Based on the operator s invocation the processor on the electronic device may execute the instructions to access the collection of users for example from a set of contacts stored locally on the electronic device. Alternatively the instructions may obtain the collection of users from a remote server for example a server associated with an event management application and or a server associated with a social networking platform .

Visual representations of a first subset of items are provided using a GUI on a display . For example upon obtaining the collection of users the instructions may be executed to display a GUI on the electronic device with a view similar to the view of the GUI illustrated in or the view of the GUI illustrated in in which visual representations of subsets of the collection of users are displayed in a scrollable selection panel of the GUI.

An indication of a selection of a first visual representation of a first item is received . For example in the view of the GUI illustrated in the operator may select a user by selecting the visual representation corresponding to the user from the subset of visual representations of users such as for example the visual representation of user

In response a second visual representation of the first item is displayed in a panel of selected items and the first subset of items is displayed with the first visual representation of the first item emphasized . For example when the operator selects the visual representation of user from the view of the GUI illustrated in as described above as the first selection that is made the GUI transitions to a view of the GUI such as for example the view of the GUI illustrated in where the horizontal panel is displayed overlaying the scrollable selection panel. In addition the image which is associated with the selected user is added to the horizontal panel to identify the selected user and the visual representation of the selected user for example visual representation in which is same as visual representation in in the scrollable selection panel is visually distinguished from the other visual representations of users in the scrollable selection panel as another way of identifying the selected user.

The GUI is manipulated to provide visual representations of a second subset of items on the display . For example the operator scrolls the scrollable selection panel of the GUI to transition the view of the GUI illustrated in displaying the subset of visual representations of users to the view of the GUI illustrated in displaying the subset of visual representations of users.

An indication of a selection of a first visual representation of a second item is received . For example in the view of the GUI illustrated in the operator selects a second user by selecting the visual representation of user

In response a second visual representation of the second item is displayed in the panel of selected items that includes the second visualization of the first item and the second subset of items is displayed with the first visual representation of the second item emphasized . For example when the operator selects the visual representation of user from the view of the GUI illustrated in the horizontal panel is updated to display the image which is associated with the user represented by the visual representation . In addition the visual representation of the user in the scrollable selection panel is visually distinguished from other visual representations of users in the scrollable selection panel as an indication that the associated user has been selected. Although the horizontal panel in the view of the GUI illustrated in is not shown as displaying image corresponding to the previously selected user represented by visual representation the horizontal panel does in fact include the image . It is just that the image is hidden from the view of the display of the horizontal panel due to the number of other images displayed in the horizontal panel . To view the image the operator may scroll the horizontal panel from the right to the left.

Visual representations of a subset of items are provided using a GUI on a display . For example a GUI may be presented on the display of the electronic device showing a view similar to the view of the GUI illustrated in which includes a subset of visual representations of users belonging to a collection of users.

Visual representations of currently selected items are displayed in a panel of selected items and visually emphasized in the display of the subset of items . For example as illustrated in the view of the GUI illustrated in the user corresponding to the visual representation currently is selected. Accordingly the image which is associated with the user represented by visual representation is shown in the horizontal panel to identify the corresponding user as being currently selected. In addition the visual representation of the user in the scrollable panel is emphasized by highlighting the borders of the image included in the visual representation of the user and also by overlaying a checkmark on the visual representation of the user

An indication of de selection of a selected item is received . For example the operator may choose to remove the user corresponding to the visual representation from the group of selected users.

In response the visual representation of the deselected item is removed from the panel of selected items and the visual representation of the deselected item is visually de emphasized in the display of the visual representations of the subset of items . For example as illustrated in the view of the GUI illustrated in in response to the operator deselecting the user represented by visual representation instructions are executed by the electronic device to remove automatically the image from the horizontal panel . In addition the visual representation of the user in the scrollable panel is de emphasized by removing the highlighting and the checkmark from the visual representation of the user

Several applications are possible based on the subject matter described above. In some implementations when a number of users are selected from among a collection of users as described above the operator may perform a common action with respect to all of the selected users. For example in some implementations the operator may send an electronic communication to the selected users. In such implementations the operator may compose a group message such as for example an electronic invitation an email or a text message which is sent to all of the selected users together. Alternatively the operator may compose a common message to be sent to the selected users and an underlying software application executing on the electronic device may send the message to each user in the group of selected users individually. Before sending such individual messages the underlying software application may customize the message send to each individual user. In some implementations the electronic communication may be an invitation to a videoconference a teleconference or any of a variety of other forms of collaboration sessions.

Although the techniques for selecting items from among a collection of items described above generally are described in the context of selecting users from among a group of users the techniques described above are widely applicable and may be used to facilitate the selection of items of any kind from among a collection of items. For example in some implementations the techniques described above may be used to facilitate the selection of electronic files from among a collection of electronic files. In some such implementations the items in the collection are files available for download from one or more remote servers and a bulk download of the selected files may be performed from the remote server s where the files are stored. Additionally or alternatively the techniques described above may be used to facilitate the selection of products to purchase from one or more e commerce platforms for example on line shopping websites . In such implementations the techniques described above may enable a purchaser to select multiple products to be purchased in a single transaction from among a collection of products.

The features described can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The apparatus can be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in an information carrier for example in a machine readable storage device for execution by a programmable processor and method steps can be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions of the described implementations by operating on input data and generating output. The described features can be implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. A computer program is a set of instructions that can be used directly or indirectly in a computer to perform a certain activity or bring about a certain result. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.

Suitable processors for the execution of a program of instructions include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and the sole processor or one of multiple processors of any kind of computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The elements of a computer may include a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to communicate with one or more mass storage devices for storing data files such devices include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

To provide for interaction with a user the features can be implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a touchscreen and or a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer.

The features can be implemented in a computer system that includes a back end component such as a data server or that includes a middleware component such as an application server or an Internet server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser or any combination of them. The components of the system can be connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Examples of communication networks include for example a LAN a WAN and the computers and networks forming the Internet.

The computer system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network such as a network described above. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

