---

title: Method for copying multiple content between applications
abstract: A method for copying content from a first form to a second form may include selecting a plurality of fields in the first form. At least one of the plurality of fields in the first form may include the content to be copied. The method may include determining mapping between the selected fields and corresponding field labels in the first form. The method may include writing the content in the selected fields to corresponding fields in the second form.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09418055&OS=09418055&RS=09418055
owner: SAP SE
number: 09418055
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20120524
---
Copy and paste functions are desirable because they allow a user to quickly transfer information between multiple documents or applications. Content from a first application can be copied to a second application by selecting content to be copied in the first application and selecting the place in the second application to paste the copied content. When content to be copied is provided in different sections of the first application the user must select individually each of the content to be copied. Similarly if the content is to be copied to different sections of the second application the user must select the sections individually to which the selected content should be copied. The conventional copy and paste functions consume considerable time because the user is required to make each selection switch between the applications and select the place to paste the selected text for each section to be copied.

Examples may include copying multiple fields from a first form to multiple fields of a second form one field at a time. Even if multiple fields of a form are selected in a single operation the user must still provide sections of the second form where the content should to be copied. In addition although the selected content in the fields may need to be copied to different sections of the second form e.g. fields in a form are arranged differently conventional paste functions will paste the entire selected content in the place determined by the user. Thus no consideration is made as to where the different portions of the selected content should be pasted in the second form.

The present disclosure relates to an improved method to perform copying operations and in particular to an improved method to perform copying of multiple content between multiple applications.

A method for copying content from a first form to a second form may include selecting a plurality of fields in the first form. At least one of the plurality of fields in the first form may include the content to be copied. The method may include determining mapping between the selected fields and corresponding field labels in the first form. The method may include writing the content in the selected fields to corresponding fields in the second form. In another embodiment the content in the selected fields may be written to corresponding cells in a table.

In another embodiment a method for copying content from a table to a form may include selecting a plurality of cells in the table. At least one of the plurality of cells in the table may include the content to be copied. The method may include determining mapping between the selected cells and corresponding cell labels in the table. The method may include writing the content in the selected cells to corresponding fields in the form.

Copying multiple fields in step may include selecting multiple fields in an application. The application may be a form that includes multiple fields displayed in the form. The application may include multiple forms. The fields may include content of one or more of characters symbols and images. Selection of the fields may select the content in the field. The form may be part of an application. The application may be a program executed by a computer or a portable device. The forms may be displayed on a computer or portable device via a wireless network or the internet. The content in the selected fields may be stored in a memory of computer or portable device that is running the application or an external storage place.

The fields may be editable fields or non editable fields. The editable fields may allow a user to enter new content select content from available options or change the content entered in the field. The editable fields may include pull down menus a quick view calendar or an external application that allows one or more selections to be made to define the content for the field. The non editable fields may have content that does not need to be changed by a user. The content in the non editable fields may be obtained from databases from other forms or tables or from previously entered data that does not need to be updates.

The field labels may be displayed next to the fields. The field labels may describe the type of content displayed in the fields. The field labels may be displayed near the field having the content. The form may include fields that do not have field labels displayed next to them. If a field does not have a field label displayed next to the field the field may still have a field label associated with the field.

A selection of the fields in a form may be made by a user selecting portions of the form that include the content to be copied. For example a user may draw a box selecting a portion of the form that includes the content that should be copied. The user may select multiple portions of the form having the content to be copied. The multiple portions of a form may be portions from different forms if multiple forms are available. A user may also individually select each of the fields to be copied by clicking in a predefined area of the field or the field label while a selection function is activated. All of the data displayed on the from may also be selected by a global selection command. The selection may include editable and non editable fields and cells. The selection of the multiple field may be performed approximately simultaneously.

A toolbar may be included to provide one or more selection options to a user. The toolbar may include an option to activate a selection an option to draw a box on the form an option to draw the bounds of an area or window to be selected an option to activate selection of multiple portions of the form or an option for individual selection of fields or field labels. The selection of the content may also be activated by keyboard shortcuts.

Once a selection is made mapping may be performed between the fields and the field labels in step . The mapping may be performed after the selection is made or after a command is entered to copy the selected portion of the form. For example after the selection is made a user may activate the copy operation by entering ctrl c on an input device such as a keyboard.

The mapping between the fields and the field labels may be performed in a backend processing device. The mapping may be performed by looking at the code of the form to determine the correspondence between the fields and the field labels. The locations of the field labels and fields with content may be considered in determining the mapping. The results of the mapping may be stored in a temporary location such as a hard drive on a system or an external storage medium until the content is copied to a new form.

The content of the selected multiple fields from the form may be pasted in new fields that correspond to the fields of the selected multiple fields in step . The pasting may include writing the content in the new form. Thus multiple content from one form may be provided to corresponding fields in one or more new forms. The new form may be in the same application or a different application. Providing the multiple content in a new form may include determining fields in the new form that correspond to the fields with content in the original form. The mapping of the content to the field labels may be used to fill in the fields that correspond to the fields with content from the original form.

The steps shown in can be used to provide a user with an easy method to copy multiple fields from one form to one or more other forms. The method to copy and paste multiple fields discussed above with reference to multiple forms may also be performed between a form and a table having multiple cells. That is the content in fields on a form can be copied to cells in a table or the content in cells can be copied to fields in a form. The content in the fields copied to a table may be displayed in multiple cells of a table. For example the content may be displayed in an Excel spreadsheet. The content in cells of a table can also be copied to the corresponding fields in the form.

The content in the table may be displayed using one or more rows and one or more columns. Each row or column may represent a certain type of content. Each row or column may include a label for the row or column. The cells of the table may include editable cells non editable cells and cells that a user can select content with one or more options.

Once the fields in a form are selected and a mapping is performed between the field and the field label the content of the selected fields may be provided to a table. The table may display the selected content in the cells of the table. The content may be displayed in cells that have labels corresponding to the mapping of the content to the field labels. In the table the first cell of each row may include the label of the cells in each row. Alternatively the first cell of each column may include the label of the cells in each column. Other arrangements between the content in the cells and the cell labels may be used to display the multiple content.

To provide the content from the cells of a table the cells in the table may first be selected. The selection of the cells in a table may be selected by defining a portion of the table having cells to be copied selecting multiple portions of the table selecting multiple cells individually or by selecting one or more rows or columns. The table mapping between the content in the cells and the labels of the cells may determined by looking at the code of the table to determine the correspondence between the content in the cell and the cell label by finding labels near the cells to be copied or by considering the label of each row or column. The table mapping may also be performed by considering any other predefined arrangement between the cells in the table and the cell labels.

The content selected in a table may be provided to one or more forms having fields with corresponding labels. The mapping between the cells and the cell labels may be used to provide content in the fields of the form that have corresponding labels.

Alternatively the selection of fields can be made if the label of the field is selected. Thus a field label that is within the selection box may be selected together with the content in the field corresponding to the selected field label although the field is not within the selection box . For example if Profession label is within selection box in content Accountant in the field corresponding to field label may be selected.

Alternatively the selection of fields can be made if only the label of a section label is selected. Thus the section label that is within the selection box may be selected together with the fields and content in the fields associated with the section label . For example if Business Details section label is within selection box in all of the fields under the Business Address section label section label may be selected together with the content in the fields e.g. Function field Department field and VIP field .

In another embodiment the content and field labels corresponding to the selected fields can be copied to a table that does not include cell labels. The field labels corresponding to the selected fields can be generated in cells of a row or column of the table. The content can be provided below or next to the cells having the corresponding labels. In addition to including the field labels section labels shown in may be generated in the table.

In step monitoring a selection of the form may be performed. The monitoring may include determining the area of the form that a user defines as the selected portion. In step a determination may be made as to which fields within the selected portion of the form are selected. In this step fields that are editable or non editable may be included or excluded from the selection based on selection settings. Selection settings may be defined before a selection is made or may be made after a portion of the form to be selected is defined.

In step a mapping may be performed between the fields that are selected and the field labels. Before the content of the selected fields is provided in a new form a determination may be made to determine the fields that are included in the new form in step . The content of the selected fields may be pasted in the corresponding fields of the new form in step . The pasting may be performed based on the mapping performed in step between the selected fields and the field labels.

Step to report the selection of fields may be provided after the determination as to which fields are within the selected portion in step or after the mapping in step . The reporting may include a notification as to how much and what kind of data was selected. The reporting may include providing a notification of the number of editable fields selected the number of non editable fields selected the number of fields not selected the number of fields selected without corresponding labels and the number of fields selected without content. The reporting may be provided to a user making the selection or can be stored in a log file. An option may be provided to the user with the report to continue displaying the reporting after each selection or to not display the reporting after the next selection.

Step to report the pasting may be provide to report the success or failure of the pasting operation. The report may include the number of fields copied the number of editable fields copied the number of non editable fields copied the number of fields not pasted because of missing fields in the new form the content and labels that were not pasted or fields that are missing content in the new form after the copying. The reporting can be set to report only when data is missing or when all of the content was not provided to the new form or table. The reporting may be provided to a user making the selection or can be stored in a log file. An option may be provided to the user with the report to continue displaying the reporting after each pasting operation or to not display the reporting after the next parting operation.

The method illustrated in may also be performed for selecting content in a form and copying the content to a table or selecting content in a table and copying the content to a form.

Some embodiments of the invention may include the above described methods being written as one or more software components. These components and the functionality associated with each may be used by client server distributed or peer computer systems. These components may be written in a computer language corresponding to one or more programming languages such as functional declarative procedural object oriented lower level languages and the like. They may be linked to other components via various application programming interfaces and then compiled into one complete application for a server or a client. Alternatively the components maybe implemented in server and client applications. Further these components may be linked together via various distributed programming protocols. Some example embodiments of the invention may include remote procedure calls being used to implement one or more of these components across a distributed programming environment. For example a logic level may reside on a first computer system that is remotely located from a second computer system containing an interface level e.g. a graphical user interface . These first and second computer systems can be configured in a server client peer to peer or some other configuration. The clients can vary in complexity from mobile and handheld devices to thin clients and on to thick clients or even other servers.

The above illustrated software components are tangibly stored on a computer readable storage medium as instructions. The term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media that stores one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include any physical article that is capable of undergoing a set of physical changes to physically store encode or otherwise carry a set of instructions for execution by a computer system which causes the computer system to perform any of the methods or process steps described represented or illustrated herein. Examples of computer readable storage media include but are not limited to magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as CD ROMs DVDs and holographic devices magneto optical media and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and execute such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs and ROM and RAM devices. Examples of computer readable instructions include machine code such as produced by a compiler and files containing higher level code that are executed by a computer using an interpreter. For example an embodiment of the invention may be implemented using Java C or other object oriented programming language and development tools. Another embodiment of the invention may be implemented in hard wired circuitry in place of or in combination with machine readable software instructions.

The display may be used to display the applications that include forms or tables. In some instances a surface of the display may be the touch sensitive surface though in other instances the two may be separate. The touch sensitive surface may be used to select the fields or cells to be copied. Additionally in some instances the computing device may be a tablet smart phone or other type of portable computing device though the computing device need not be portable.

Communications input output device may enable connectivity between the computing device and other computing systems peripherals and devices by encoding and or transmitting data to be sent to the external devices and receiving and or decoding data received from the external devices.

In an embodiment memory may contain different components for retrieving presenting changing and saving data. Memory may include a variety of memory devices for example Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM Static RAM SRAM flash memory cache memory and other memory devices.

Processing device may perform computation and control functions of a system and comprises a suitable central processing unit CPU . Processing device may include a single integrated circuit such as a microprocessing device or may include any suitable number of integrated circuit devices and or circuit boards working in cooperation to accomplish the functions of a processing device. Processing device may execute computer programs such as object oriented computer programs within memory .

The foregoing description has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not exhaustive and does not limit embodiments of the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from the practicing embodiments consistent with the invention. For example some of the described embodiments may include software or hardware but some systems and methods consistent with the present invention may be implemented in both software and hardware.

Although the processes illustrated and described herein include series of steps it will be appreciated that the different embodiments of the present invention are not limited by the illustrated ordering of steps as some steps may occur in different orders some concurrently with other steps apart from that shown and described herein. In addition not all illustrated steps may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with the present invention. Moreover it will be appreciated that the processes may be implemented in association with the apparatus and systems illustrated and described herein as well as in association with other systems not illustrated.

The above descriptions and illustrations of embodiments of the invention including what is described in the Abstract is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments of and examples for the invention are described herein for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the invention as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. These modifications can be made to the invention in light of the above detailed description. Rather the scope of the invention is to be determined by the following claims which are to be interpreted in accordance with established doctrines of claim construction.

