---

title: Data processing environment event correlation
abstract: A system and method for correlating events in data processing resources processing a workload. An event correlation service comprising an event correlation service software framework is provided on a processor unit. The event correlation service is configured, using the event correlation service software framework, for correlating the events from monitored data for the workload, wherein the workload is processed using the data processing resources provided by a provider of the data processing resources. The event correlation service receives monitored data for the workload as the workload is being processed. The monitored data is processed by the event correlation service to identify an occurrence of an event of interest for the workload as the workload is being processed. An output is provided in response to identifying the occurrence of the event of interest.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09128773&OS=09128773&RS=09128773
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09128773
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120626
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 400 505 filed Feb. 20 2012 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 446 885 filed Feb. 25 2011 both of which are incorporated by reference herein in entirety.

The disclosure relates generally to data processing systems and methods and more specifically to systems and methods for using data processing resources provided as a service known as cloud computing and to systems and methods for processing a workload using such data processing resources and for correlating monitored data from such data processing resources to identify the occurrence of an event of interest.

Cloud computing is a model of service delivery for enabling convenient on demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or interaction with a provider of the service. For example cloud computing allows a consumer to obtain data processing resources such as networks network bandwidth servers processing memory storage applications virtual machines and services as a service on a temporary basis when needed. Several vendors are currently offering various cloud services. For example such services include infrastructure as a service platform as a service storage as a service software as a service and business process as a service cloud services. These services use vendor specific service requests access and consumption models.

A consumer of cloud computing services may have its own data processing system resources. For example the consumer may be a business or other entity. The consumer may have invested in its own data processing system resources. These resources may include a computer network. The consumer s computer network provides a limited amount of processing capability and data storage resources. The consumer s computer network also provides specific data processing applications. The consumer s computer network may be located on premise and may be operated as a private cloud.

At certain times the consumer may require data processing resources beyond those available in its computer network. For example at certain times the demand for data processing resources may outstrip the capability of the consumer s computer network. At these times the response time of the consumer s computer network for some applications may increase to unacceptable levels. At other times the consumer may require data processing applications that are not available on the consumer s own computer network. For example the consumer may require at times the use of data processing applications that are not part of the consumer s core competency.

At those times when the consumer requires data processing resources beyond its own the consumer may purchase such resources as a service on a temporary basis from a provider of cloud computing services. For example the consumer may obtain additional processing or storage resources or specific application functionality as a service on a temporary basis from the cloud computing provider s data processing resources. Different types of service offerings may provide parts of the solution used in processing the consumer s workload. The provider s available data processing resources is known as a public cloud.

The consumer typically continues to operate its own computer network while some data processing resources are being obtained from a public cloud. Thus data processing resources from the public cloud typically are obtained in order to supplement the data processing resources of the consumer s own private cloud at certain times of need. The simultaneous and coordinated operation of data processing resources from multiple clouds may be referred to as hybrid cloud computing. For example operation of the consumer s private cloud along with resources obtained from one or more public clouds is a specific example of hybrid cloud computing.

According to one illustrative embodiment a method for correlating events in data processing resources processing a workload is provided. An event correlation service comprising an event correlation service software framework is provided on a processor unit. The event correlation service is configured using the event correlation service software framework for correlating the events from monitored data for the workload wherein the workload is processed using the data processing resources provided by a provider of the data processing resources. Monitored data for the workload is received by the event correlation service as the workload is being processed. The monitored data is processed by the event correlation service to identify an occurrence of an event of interest for the workload as the workload is being processed. An output is provided in response to identifying the occurrence of the event of interest.

According to another illustrative embodiment a computer program product for correlating events in data processing resources processing a workload is provided. The computer program product comprises a computer readable storage medium and program instructions stored on the computer readable storage medium. The program instructions comprises first program instructions to provide an event correlation service comprising an event correlation service software framework second program instructions to configure the event correlation service using the event correlation service software framework for correlating events from monitored data for the workload wherein the workload is processed using data processing resources provided by a provider of the data processing resources third program instructions to receive by the event correlation service the monitored data for the workload as the workload is being processed fourth program instructions to process the monitored data by the event correlation service to identify an occurrence of an event of interest for the workload as the workload is being processed and fifth program instructions to provide an output in response to identifying the occurrence of the event of interest.

According to another illustrative embodiment an apparatus is provided comprising a software framework a software plug in loaded on the software framework an instance of the software plug in loaded on the software framework and a processor unit. The software plug in comprises first correlation parameters used for correlating events in data processing resources. The instance comprises the first correlation parameters inherited from the software plug in and second correlation parameters comprising workload specific parameters used for correlating the events in processing a workload. The processor unit is configured to receive monitored data for the workload as the workload is being processed by the data processing resources process the monitored data using the instance to identify an occurrence of an event of interest from the monitored data using the first correlation parameters and the second correlation parameters and provide an output responsive to identifying the occurrence of the event of interest.

According to another illustrative embodiment another method for correlating events in data processing resources processing a workload is provided. A request to correlate events in the data processing resources processing the workload is received by the processor unit. Responsive to receiving the request it is determined by the processor unit whether a software plug in is loaded on a framework. The software plug in comprises first correlation parameters used for correlating the events in processing the workload. Responsive to a determination that the software plug in is not loaded on the framework an application programming interface of the framework is used to load the software plug in on the framework. An instance of the software plug in loaded on the framework then is created. The instance comprises the first correlation parameters inherited from the software plug in and second correlation parameters comprising workload specific parameters used for correlating the events in processing the workload. Monitored data for the workload may be received using the framework as the workload is being processed. The monitored data may be processed using the instance to identify an occurrence of an event of interest from the monitored data using the first correlation parameters and the second correlation parameters. An output may be provided responsive to identifying the occurrence of the event of interest.

Further objects features and advantages will be apparent from the following detailed description and taking into consideration the attached drawing figures.

It is understood in advance that although this disclosure includes a detailed description on cloud computing implementation of the teachings recited herein are not limited to a cloud computing environment. Rather the illustrative embodiments are capable of being implemented in conjunction with any other type of computing environment now known or later developed.

For convenience the detailed description includes the following definitions which have been derived from the Draft NIST Working Definition of Cloud Computing by Peter Mell and Tim Grance dated Oct. 7 2009.

Cloud computing is a model of service delivery for enabling convenient on demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources e.g. networks network bandwidth servers processing memory storage applications virtual machines and services that can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort or interaction with a provider of the service. This cloud model may include at least five characteristics at least three service models and at least four deployment models.

On demand self service a cloud consumer can unilaterally provision computing capabilities such as server time and network storage as needed automatically without requiring human interaction with the service s provider.

Broad network access capabilities are available over a network and accessed through standard mechanisms that promote use by heterogeneous thin or thick client platforms e.g. mobile phones laptops and PDAs .

Resource pooling the provider s computing resources are pooled to serve multiple consumers using a multi tenant model with different physical and virtual resources dynamically assigned and reassigned according to demand. There is a sense of location independence in that the consumer generally has no control or knowledge over the exact location of the provided resources but may be able to specify location at a higher level of abstraction e.g. country state or data center .

Rapid elasticity capabilities can be rapidly and elastically provisioned in some cases automatically to quickly scale out and rapidly released to quickly scale in. To the consumer the capabilities available for provisioning often appear to be unlimited and can be purchased in any quantity at any time.

Measured service cloud systems automatically control and optimize resource use by leveraging a metering capability at some level of abstraction appropriate to the type of service e.g. storage processing bandwidth and active user accounts . Resource usage can be monitored controlled and reported providing transparency for both the provider and consumer of the utilized service.

Software as a Service SaaS the capability provided to the consumer is to use the provider s applications running on a cloud infrastructure. The applications are accessible from various client devices through a thin client interface such as a web browser e.g. web based e mail . The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure including network servers operating systems storage or even individual application capabilities with the possible exception of limited user specific application configuration settings.

Platform as a Service PaaS the capability provided to the consumer is to deploy onto the cloud infrastructure consumer created or consumer acquired applications created using programming languages and tools supported by the provider. The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure including networks servers operating systems or storage but has control over the deployed applications and possibly application hosting environment configurations.

Infrastructure as a Service IaaS the capability provided to the consumer is to provision processing storage networks and other fundamental computing resources where the consumer is able to deploy and run arbitrary software which can include operating systems and applications. The consumer does not manage or control the underlying cloud infrastructure but has control over operating systems storage deployed applications and possibly limited control of select networking components e.g. host firewalls .

Private cloud the cloud infrastructure is operated solely for an organization. It may be managed by the organization or a third party and may exist on premises or off premises.

Community cloud the cloud infrastructure is shared by several organizations and supports a specific community that has shared concerns e.g. mission security requirements policy and compliance considerations . It may be managed by the organizations or a third party and may exist on premises or off premises.

Public cloud the cloud infrastructure is made available to the general public or a large industry group and is owned by an organization selling cloud services.

Hybrid cloud the cloud infrastructure is a composition of two or more clouds private community or public that remain unique entities but are bound together by standardized or proprietary technology that enables data and application portability e.g. cloud bursting for load balancing between clouds and service interoperability.

A cloud computing environment is service oriented with a focus on statelessness low coupling modularity and semantic interoperability. At the heart of cloud computing is an infrastructure comprising a network of interconnected nodes.

Referring now to a schematic of an example of a cloud computing node is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Cloud computing node is only one example of a suitable cloud computing node and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the illustrative embodiments described herein. Regardless cloud computing node is capable of being implemented and or performing any of the functionality set forth hereinabove.

Cloud computing node comprises computer system server which is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with computer system server include but are not limited to personal computer systems server computer systems thin clients thick clients hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputer systems mainframe computer systems and distributed cloud computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer system server may be described in the general context of computer system executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer system. Generally program modules may include routines programs objects components logic data structures and so on that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer system server may be practiced in distributed cloud computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed cloud computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer system storage media including memory storage devices.

As shown in computer system server in cloud computing node is shown in the form of a general purpose computing device. The components of computer system server may include but are not limited to one or more processors or processor unit system memory and bus that couples various system components including system memory to processor unit .

Processor unit executes instructions for software that may be loaded into system memory . Processor unit may be a number of processors a multi processor core or some other type of processor depending on the particular implementation. A number as used herein with reference to an item means one or more items. Further processor unit may be implemented using a number of heterogeneous processor systems in which a main processor is present with secondary processors on a single chip. As another illustrative example processor unit may be a symmetric multi processor system containing multiple processors of the same type.

Bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI bus.

Computer system server typically includes a variety of computer system readable media. Such media may be any available media that is accessible by computer system server and it includes both volatile media non volatile media removable media and non removable media.

System memory can include computer system readable media in the form of volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and or cache memory . Computer system server may further include other removable non removable and volatile non volatile computer system storage media. By way of example only storage system can be provided for reading from and writing to a non removable non volatile magnetic media not shown and typically called a hard drive . Although not shown a magnetic disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable non volatile magnetic disk e.g. a floppy disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM DVD ROM or other optical media can be provided. In such instances each can be connected to bus by one or more data media interfaces. As will be further depicted and described below memory may include at least one program product having a set e.g. at least one of program modules that are configured to carry out the functions of embodiments of the illustrative embodiments.

Program utility having a set at least one of program modules may be stored in memory by way of example and not limitation as well as an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data. Each of the operating systems one or more application programs other program modules and program data or some combination thereof may include an implementation of a networking environment. Program modules generally carry out the functions and or methodologies of the illustrative embodiments as described herein.

Computer system server may also communicate with one or more external devices such as a keyboard a pointing device display etc. one or more devices that enable a user to interact with computer system server and or any devices e.g. network card modem etc. that enable computer system server to communicate with one or more other computing devices. Such communication can occur via I O interfaces . Still yet computer system server can communicate with one or more networks such as a local area network LAN a general wide area network WAN and or a public network e.g. the Internet via network adapter . As depicted network adapter communicates with the other components of computer system server via bus . It should be understood that although not shown other hardware and or software components could be used in conjunction with computer system server . Examples include but are not limited to microcode device drivers redundant processing units external disk drive arrays RAID systems tape drives and data archival storage systems etc.

Referring now to an illustration of a cloud computing environment is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. In this illustrative example cloud computing environment comprises one or more cloud computing nodes with which local computing devices used by cloud consumers may communicate. For example cloud computing node in is one example of cloud computing nodes . Local computing devices which may communicate with cloud computing nodes may include for example personal digital assistant PDA or cellular telephone A desktop computer B laptop computer C and or automobile computer system N. Cloud computing nodes may communicate with one another. They may be grouped not shown physically or virtually in one or more networks such as private community public or hybrid clouds as described hereinabove or a combination thereof. This allows cloud computing environment to offer infrastructure platforms and or software as services for which a cloud consumer does not need to maintain resources on a local computing device. It is understood that the types of computing devices A B C and N shown in are intended to be illustrative only and that cloud computing nodes and cloud computing environment can communicate with any type of computerized device over any type of network and or network addressable connection e.g. using a web browser . Program code located on one of cloud computing nodes may be stored on a computer recordable storage medium in one of cloud computing nodes and downloaded to a computing device within computing devices A B C and N over a network for use in these computing devices. For example a server computer in cloud computing nodes may store program code on a computer readable storage medium on the server computer. The server computer may download the program code to a client computer in computing devices A B C and N for use on the client computer.

Referring now to a set of functional abstraction layers is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. The set of functional abstraction layers may be provided by cloud computing environment in . It should be understood in advance that the components layers and functions shown in are intended to be illustrative only and illustrative embodiments are not limited thereto. As depicted the following layers and corresponding functions are provided 

Hardware and software layer includes hardware and software components. Examples of hardware components include mainframes in one example IBM zSeries systems RISC Reduced Instruction Set Computer architecture based servers in one example IBM pSeries systems IBM xSeries systems IBM BladeCenter systems storage devices and networks and networking components. Examples of software components include network application server software in one example IBM WebSphere application server software and database software in one example IBM DB2 database software. IBM zSeries pSeries xSeries BladeCenter WebSphere and DB2 are trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation registered in many jurisdictions worldwide. 

Virtualization layer provides an abstraction layer from which the following examples of virtual entities may be provided virtual servers virtual storage virtual networks including virtual private networks virtual applications and operating systems and virtual clients.

In one example management layer may provide the functions described below. Resource provisioning provides dynamic procurement of computing resources and other resources that are utilized to perform tasks within the cloud computing environment. Metering and pricing provide usage and cost tracking as resources are utilized within the cloud computing environment and billing or invoicing for consumption of these resources. In one example these resources may comprise application software licenses. Security provides identity verification for cloud consumers and tasks as well as protection for data and other resources. User portal provides access to the cloud computing environment for consumers and system administrators. Service level management provides cloud computing resource allocation and management such that required service levels are met. Service Level Agreement SLA planning and fulfillment provides pre arrangement for and procurement of cloud computing resources for which a future requirement is anticipated in accordance with an SLA.

Workloads layer provides examples of functionality for which the cloud computing environment may be utilized. Examples of workloads and functions which may be provided from this layer include mapping and navigation software development and lifecycle management virtual classroom education delivery data analytics processing transaction processing and workload monitoring management and security processing.

The different illustrative embodiments recognize and take into account a number of different considerations. For example the different illustrative embodiments recognize and take into account that many enterprises have an existing investment in information technology resources. These enterprises want to use their existing infrastructure software and management resources. At times such enterprises also may want to augment their own data processing resources selectively with cloud based services. Thus for economic and functional reasons there may be a need to use on premise enterprise infrastructure platform applications or data and off premise cloud service infrastructure platform applications or data in an integrated manner.

The different illustrative embodiments recognize and take into account that in cases of cloud computing server network data and applications used in processing the enterprise workload may reside within an enterprise data center may be with partners of the enterprise or may reside over the Internet in a public cloud. Thus processing a workload using a combination of on premise enterprise resources and public cloud resources involves using some of the on premise infrastructure platform applications or data as well as some off premise cloud based services and data. Cloud computing solutions of this type may create integration interoperability management and security challenges.

For example the different illustrative embodiments recognize and take into account that cloud computing consumers desire to maintain a seamless interface across on premise and off premise cloud boundaries. However the governing policies for cloud operation and security related procedures always need to be in place. These competing requirements create the need for an integrated infrastructure and management solution that can span across the consumer data center and into one or more public cloud environments.

The different illustrative embodiments recognize and take into account that easy access to public cloud services allows such services to be consumed within an enterprise in a non centralized and unmanaged manner. De centralizing and moving data processing resources to off site vendors increases the complexity and time required to support them. Typically this complexity is only evident when the cloud resources being consumed are reported to the enterprise information technology department. Security and system governance lapses may result from this lack of management. Regulatory and business compliance may require policy based data sharing across a hybrid cloud. However current unmanaged methods for accessing cloud service resources cannot guarantee such compliance. The different illustrative embodiments also recognize and take into account the desirability of controlling cloud vendor selection based on business conditions and established policies.

The different illustrative embodiments recognize and take into account that policy based workload management across a hybrid cloud and automated support of cloud computing services will reduce information technology costs. Such hybrid cloud management and support will improve security and compliance and thereby will increase enterprise adoption of cloud technologies.

Various providers of cloud services use vendor specific service request access and consumption models. The different illustrative embodiments recognize and take into account the desirability of a vender neutral and service specific interface to all clouds that provide a desired cloud service.

The different illustrative embodiments recognize and take into account that integrated monitoring of data processing resources and workload processing across a hybrid cloud is needed to establish automated policy based workload management. However such integrated monitoring cannot be achieved using existing solutions. Existing solutions for monitoring data processing resources and workload processing are not adapted for the dynamic nature of hybrid cloud computing environments. In particular such solutions are not adapted for hybrid cloud environments formed of separate dynamic networks of data processing resources that often must be separated from each other by firewalls to provide appropriate levels of security.

Therefore the different illustrative embodiments recognize and take into account the need for an integrated infrastructure and monitoring solution that can span across a hybrid cloud computing environment. In particular the different illustrative embodiments recognize and take into account the need for an integrated infrastructure and monitoring solution that can span across a customer data center into one or more public cloud environments. The different illustrative embodiments recognize and take into account that consumers of data processing resources desire to view the state of a workload running on a hybrid cloud using a single integrated view. An integrated infrastructure and monitoring solution in accordance with an illustrative embodiment makes possible such an integrated view.

The different illustrative embodiments also recognize and take into account that such an integrated infrastructure and monitoring solution should be implemented and maintained as efficiently as possible. For example any required changes to monitoring agents or to other parts of the monitoring infrastructure should be minimized and confined to as few components as possible. Currently available solutions for monitoring data processing resources and workload processing do not provide such efficiency. Currently available solutions for monitoring data processing resources and workload processing are too cumbersome to set up and use particularly in a hybrid cloud computing environment.

In accordance with an illustrative embodiment a hybrid cloud integrator provides for integration of on premise infrastructure platform applications and data with public cloud based infrastructure platform services and data. A hybrid cloud integrator in accordance with an illustrative embodiment may be used to extend on premise data center capabilities by augmenting such capabilities with data processing capabilities provided in a public cloud. For example such cloud based capabilities may include infrastructure as a service or storage as a service capabilities. In accordance with an illustrative embodiment the desired solution for processing a workload may be implemented in a hybrid cloud environment that integrates multiple private cloud and public cloud based services.

A hybrid cloud integrator in accordance with an illustrative embodiment may be used to extend the reach of a consumer s on premise data processing monitoring and management functionality to monitor and manage the data processing resource capabilities extended in a public cloud. In accordance with an illustrative embodiment a hybrid cloud computing environment including both private cloud and public cloud based services may be monitored and managed in a more effective manner as a single logical cloud of resources. Hybrid cloud integration in accordance with an illustrative embodiment allows policy based integration of infrastructure services and data across the hybrid cloud. In accordance with an illustrative embodiment monitoring and management of the integrated infrastructure and services can be performed in a centralized manner. In this way workload specific actions can be taken consistently and in a vendor neutral manner even if the components of the workload are processed using multiple cloud based services.

In accordance with an illustrative embodiment a hybrid cloud integrator provides an integration platform for integrating workload monitoring and management across a hybrid cloud. The hybrid cloud integrator in accordance with an illustrative embodiment may comprise a hybrid cloud integrator framework. Hybrid cloud integration components may be plugged in to the framework as needed in a systematic manner.

For example in accordance with an illustrative embodiment integration components that may be plugged in to the hybrid cloud integrator framework may include a cloud service broker plug in a cloud monitoring plug in and a cloud security services plug in. Together the plug ins may be used to provision and configure an on premise or consumer side monitoring gateway and an off premise or provider cloud side monitoring gateway. These gateways are employed to provide for integrated workload monitoring across a hybrid cloud.

In accordance with an illustrative embodiment a consumer of data processing resources may use the integration components provided in the hybrid cloud integrator to identify and define hybrid cloud monitoring participants across the hybrid cloud. Such participants may include both an on premise monitoring infrastructure and one or more off premise cloud based services that are to be monitored using the on premise monitoring infrastructure. The consumer of data processing resources may specify parameters needed to enable integration for hybrid cloud monitoring. For example such parameters may include port identifications Internet Protocol or other addresses encryption methods used and the like. Coordination of actions among the integration component plug ins is automated so that implementation of the hybrid cloud monitoring setup may be completed automatically. Thus illustrative embodiments provide for the efficient set up of an integrated infrastructure and monitoring solution for hybrid cloud monitoring.

In accordance with an illustrative embodiment data processing service instances in a cloud may be monitored using monitoring agents. The monitoring agents may provide monitored data to an on premise monitoring infrastructure via the hybrid cloud integration structure established using the hybrid cloud integrator. In accordance with an illustrative embodiment as additional data processing service instances are established in the cloud or as data processing service instances are terminated monitoring of already established or remaining instances may continue without requiring changes in the monitoring agents for those instances or in the rest of the monitoring infrastructure. Thus illustrative embodiments provide for the efficient maintenance and operation of an integrated infrastructure and monitoring solution for hybrid cloud monitoring.

The different illustrative embodiments recognize and take into account that current cloud based services accessible over the internet are provided by multiple vendors. Multiple vendors may offer directly competing services. For example both IBM SBDTC and Amazon EC2 offer infrastructure as a service cloud services. Different protocols and application programming interfaces are required for interfacing with these competing services. Currently consumers of these services have to develop and maintain vendor specific code to access the same service from different vendors. Consumers of cloud computing services would prefer to maintain a single vendor neutral and service specific interface to all clouds that provide a desired service. Consumers also desire to control vendor selection based on business considerations.

In accordance with an illustrative embodiment a cloud service broker a cloud security service and a cloud monitoring service may be provided as plug in components for a hybrid cloud integrator. These three components may operate together automatically to set up and provide monitoring of data processing resources across a hybrid cloud.

The different illustrative embodiments recognize and take into account that when a workload is processed in a hybrid cloud environment processing may be distributed across multiple cloud domains. For example workload processing may be distributed across on premise off premise private cloud public cloud and other domains in the hybrid cloud environment. Furthermore the composition of workload processing across the multiple cloud domains may vary over time. Nevertheless it is desirable to be able to manage the entire workload across the various hybrid cloud domains as a whole for performance and other service level agreement characteristics regardless of where the components of the workload are processed. However correlation and aggregation of data processing resource component characteristics across the various domains of the hybrid cloud may be challenging.

The different illustrative embodiments also recognize and take into account that key performance indicators may vary from workload to workload. An event correlation service that is able to adopt strategies to aggregate low level monitored data and correlate events of interest is desirable.

The illustrative embodiments solve the problem of correlating and aggregating workload characteristics using low level monitored data and events collected from monitoring of resources and services across a hybrid cloud. The illustrative embodiments allow administrators to define workload specific events or situations of interest. Illustrative embodiments also provide for automation of the process of aggregating and filtering workload specific events of interest by monitoring observable workload and resource characteristics aggregating and building events and then creating correlations among the events so that events of interest may be identified and appropriate actions taken. The illustrative embodiments may use hybrid cloud monitoring capabilities for correlating events across a hybrid cloud data processing environment. In accordance with an illustrative embodiment the occurrence of specific events of interest may be observed in the hybrid cloud environment. Observation of the occurrence of these events may operate as a trigger mechanism. In response to determining that an event of interest has occurred notifications and other action items may be injected automatically into proactive or reactive workload management systems.

The illustrative embodiments provide a method and apparatus for a plug in oriented modular and programmable event correlation service.

Referring now to a block diagram of a data processing environment employing hybrid cloud integration is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Data processing environment includes consumer data processing resources and provider data processing resources . In some embodiments provider data processing resources may be referred to as first data processing resources and consumer data processing resources may be referred to as second data processing resources or vice versa.

Consumer data processing resources may include data processing resources that are owned or controlled exclusively by consumer of data processing resources . For example consumer of data processing resources may be a business entity or other organization or enterprise that uses consumer data processing resources to process consumer processed consumer workload .

Consumer data processing resources may include any combination of data processing systems and devices for processing consumer processed consumer workload . For example consumer data processing resources may include any combination of data processing infrastructure networks processors data storage databases and applications.

Consumer data processing resources may include or may be referred to as private cloud . Consumer data processing resources may include data processing resources that are located on premise or may be referred to as being on premise . On premise may mean that all of consumer data processing resources are co located in a single location that is owned or controlled by consumer of data processing resources that also owns or controls consumer data processing resources . Alternatively on premise may mean that consumer data processing resources are under the control of consumer of data processing resources for exclusive use by consumer of data processing resources even though some or all of consumer data processing resources are physically located in a number of remote locations.

Provider data processing resources are data processing resources that are available to be shared by a number of consumers of data processing resources including consumer of data processing resources . Provider data processing resources may include any combination of data processing systems or devices. For example provider data processing resources may include any combination of data processing infrastructure networks processors data storage or applications.

Provider data processing resources may be provided as services . For example provider data processing resources may be provided as services by public cloud . Public cloud makes provider data processing resources available to consumer of data processing resources as services . For example services may include one or more of infrastructure as a service platform as a service software as a service or other data processing related services.

At certain times consumer of data processing resources may use provider data processing resources to process provider processed consumer workload . Provider processed consumer workload typically is a portion of all of consumer workload that consumer of data processing resources needs to be processed. In some cases provider processed consumer workload may be all of consumer workload that consumer of data processing resources needs to be processed. For example consumer of data processing resources may use provider data processing resources to process provider processed consumer workload when consumer data processing resources are overloaded with processing consumer processed consumer workload . At other times consumer of data processing resources may employ provider data processing resources to process provider processed consumer workload when processing of provider processed consumer workload is not one of the core competencies of consumer of data processing resources . As another example consumer of data processing resources may use provider data processing resources to process provider processed consumer workload when particular applications required to process provider processed consumer workload are not available among consumer data processing resources . In any case processing of provider processed consumer workload using provider data processing resources may require that a number of applications or data or both applications and data be provided to provider data processing resources in order to process provider processed consumer workload .

Thus at times all of consumer workload being processed by or for consumer of data processing resources may be processed in part as consumer processed consumer workload on consumer data processing resources such as private cloud and in part as provider processed consumer workload on provider data processing resources such as public cloud . In this case the integration of private cloud and public cloud to process consumer workload for consumer of data processing resources forms hybrid cloud .

Operation of hybrid cloud requires communication between consumer data processing resources and provider data processing resources . However security concerns may require the prevention of unauthorized access to consumer data processing resources from provider data processing resources or from any other unauthorized sources. Therefore firewall may be provided between consumer data processing resources and provider data processing resources . Firewall is designed to block unauthorized access to consumer data processing resources by provider data processing resources or by any other unauthorized sources while permitting authorized communications between consumer data processing resources and provider data processing resources . Firewall may be implemented in either hardware or software or using a combination of both hardware and software. For example without limitation firewall may be implemented in consumer data processing resources .

In accordance with an illustrative embodiment hybrid cloud integrator provides integration across consumer data processing resources and provider data processing resources to implement integrated data processing resources forming hybrid cloud . For example without limitation hybrid cloud integrator may be implemented by consumer of data processing resources on consumer data processing resources .

In accordance with an illustrative embodiment hybrid cloud integrator includes framework integration platform and a number of plug ins . For example framework may be implemented in software as a software framework. Framework may be implemented on integration platform . Integration platform provides the underlying hardware and software required to implement hybrid cloud integrator . For example integration platform may include the hardware operating system and runtime environment in which hybrid cloud integrator is implemented.

Framework provides plug in interface . Plug in interface allows a number of plug ins to be installed in hybrid cloud integrator . Plug ins are software components that are configured to provide functionality for integrated use of consumer data processing resources and provider data processing resources . Plug ins may include for example a number of service deployment and integration components a number of data integration components and a number of management integration components .

In accordance with an illustrative embodiment service deployment and integration components may be used by consumer of data processing resources to deploy services in provider data processing resources that are needed to process or monitor provider processed consumer workload . Service deployment and integration components also may be used to integrate services deployed in provider data processing resources with consumer data processing resources to provide integrated data processing resources to process consumer workload . For example service deployment and integration components may include cloud service broker plug in . As will be described in more detail below cloud service broker plug in may be used for provisioning provider data processing resources in public cloud for use by consumer of data processing resources .

Data integration components may be used by consumer of data processing resources to migrate replicate transform and integrate data used in processing consumer workload between consumer data processing resources and provider data processing resources . Service deployment and integration components and data integration components may be used to enforce workload and data specific deployment and integration policies specified by consumer of data processing resources .

Management integration components may include any components that may be used by consumer of data processing resources to monitor and manage the processing of provider processed consumer workload by provider data processing resources . Management integration components may include plug in components that may be used by consumer of data processing resources to monitor the processing of provider processed consumer workload by provider data processing resources in order to manage such processing. For example management integration components may include cloud monitoring plug in and cloud security service plug in . As will be described in more detail below cloud monitoring plug in may be used for managing monitoring of processing of provider processed consumer workload on provider data processing resources . Cloud security service plug in may be used for managing security for the monitoring of the processing of provider processed consumer workload on provider data processing resources . Management integration components may also or alternatively include metering components or other management related components.

Operating characteristics of plug ins are defined by configuration data . In accordance with an illustrative embodiment framework may provide service connectivity management function . Service connectivity management function allows current configuration data from plug ins and other information about plug ins to be made available to a user on user interface . Service connectivity management function also allows configuration data to be received from user interface for plug ins . Thus service connectivity management function provides a connection between plug ins and user interface allowing users to view and change the operating configuration of plug ins via user interface .

Framework also may provide runtime management function . Runtime management function provides for managing operation of plug ins during operation thereof. Specifically runtime management function may provide for activating plug ins and for controlling operation of plug ins after plug ins are activated.

Framework also may provide communication between plug ins . Communication between plug ins allows plug ins to interact with each other. For example communication between plug ins allows one of plug ins to access and make use of the functionality provided by another of plug ins in framework .

In accordance with an illustrative embodiment hybrid cloud integrator provides flexible and reliable automated integration of data processing resources across hybrid cloud to process a workload. For example hybrid cloud integrator may be used by workload manager to access provider data processing resources automatically when needed to supplement consumer data processing resources . Hybrid cloud integrator also may be used by workload manager to monitor the processing of provider processed consumer workload by provider data processing resources .

Workload manager may provide automated workload management . Automated workload management includes automatically managing workload processing on available data processing resources. An example of a system that provides this type of automated workload management is the IBM Tivoli Service Automation Manager TSAM available from International Business Machines Corporation. Illustrative embodiments may be used however in combination with any currently available workload manager providing automated workload management functions or with any workload manager that may become available in the future. Illustrative embodiment also may be used in combination with workload managers in which automated workload management functions are implemented in combination with a human operator.

Workload manager may provide automated workload management based on policies . Policies may define limitations under which workload manager may use available data processing resources. For example policies may define when or under what conditions workload manager may use provider data processing resources to process consumer workload . Policies also may specify which provider data processing resources may be used to process consumer workload . Policies also may specify consumer data that may be replicated and accessed by provider data processing resources and the portion of consumer workload that may be processed by provider data processing resources . Policies may specify security and privacy constraints that must be applied for processing consumer workload by provider data processing resources .

Policies may be developed using business rules management engine . Business rules management engine may take into consideration a variety of business related and other factors to determine policies . For example factors used by business rules management engine to determine policies may include financial security compliance customer relations factors or other suitable factors.

Workload manager may provide automatic policy based provisioning based on policies . For example policy based provisioning may call for the provisioning of provider data processing resources to process provider processed consumer workload . In this case workload manager may use hybrid cloud integrator to deploy provider data processing resources needed to process provider processed consumer workload . For example service deployment and integration components may be used to deploy services in public cloud that are needed to process provider processed consumer workload . Service deployment and integration components may establish communication with provider data processing resources through firewall . For example such communication may be established via application programming interface portal in public cloud . Applications data or both applications and data needed for processing provider processed consumer workload may be provided to provider data processing resources by workload manager via hybrid cloud integrator .

Hybrid cloud integrator also may be used to establish workload processing image in public cloud . Workload processing image pre defines services needed to process provider processed consumer workload . By establishing workload processing image in advance provider data processing resources needed to process provider processed consumer workload may be deployed more rapidly when workload manager determines that provider data processing resources will be used for this purpose.

In accordance with an illustrative embodiment hybrid cloud integrator allows workload manager to access provider data processing resources as easily as consumer data processing resources . Plug ins in hybrid cloud integrator handle all of the special requirements of provider data processing resources needed to access those resources.

In accordance with an illustrative embodiment hybrid cloud integrator also provides for monitoring the processing of provider processed consumer workload by provider data processing resources . For example as will be described in more detail below service deployment and integration components and management integration components may be used to establish and manage monitoring of the processing of provider processed consumer workload . Monitored data from provider data processing resources may be provided to monitoring infrastructure via hybrid cloud integrator . Similarly consumer processing monitoring agent may be implemented in consumer data processing resources . Consumer processing monitoring agent collects data for monitoring the processing of consumer processed consumer workload by consumer data processing resources . Monitored data from consumer data processing resources may be provided from consumer processing monitoring agent to monitoring infrastructure .

Monitoring infrastructure may be implemented in consumer data processing resources . Monitoring infrastructure may receive monitoring information for provider data processing resources via hybrid cloud integrator and monitoring information from consumer processing monitoring agent for consumer data processing resources . Monitoring infrastructure may process the received monitoring information to generate an integrated display of workload processing conditions for provider data processing resources and consumer data processing resources . This integrated display may be presented to a user such as a system administrator on monitoring station . Thus in accordance with an illustrative embodiment a display of workload processing conditions across hybrid cloud may be presented to a user in an integrated manner. Such an integrated display allows a user to monitor and manage workload processing across hybrid cloud in an integrated effective and efficient manner.

Monitoring infrastructure also may look for and detect the occurrence of events from the monitoring information provided to monitoring infrastructure . Events may be defined by the occurrence of specified conditions or patterns in the monitored data. For example monitored data exceeding a defined threshold for at least a specified time period may indicate the occurrence of one of events . In accordance with an illustrative embodiment events may be defined by the occurrence of any condition state or pattern of interest in the monitored data provided to monitoring infrastructure .

Events may be provided as input to event correlation and aggregation function . Event correlation and aggregation function may provide and may be referred to as an event correlation service. For example event correlation and aggregation function may be implemented as an event correlation service for correlating and aggregating workload characteristics using low level monitored data and events collected from monitoring of resources and services across hybrid cloud . Event correlation function may be implemented as a plug in oriented modular and programmable event correlation service as described in more detail below.

Event correlation and aggregation function may aggregate and correlate events over periods of time. Event correlation and aggregation function may determine whether the aggregated and correlated events indicate the presence of data processing conditions that should be or may be addressed to maintain or improve system performance. For example event correlation and aggregation function may determine that a series of detected events has occurred indicating that consumer data processing resources or provider data processing resources are overloaded. Similarly event correlation and aggregation function may determine that a series of detected events has occurred indicating that consumer data processing resources or provider data processing resources are being underutilized. In accordance with an illustrative embodiment any data processing condition of interest that may be defined by aggregated or correlated events may be detected by event correlation and aggregation function .

In response to a determination by event correlation and aggregation function that a data processing condition of interest exists service desk ticketing function may send event based service request to workload manager . For example service desk ticketing function may generate event based service request in response to a determination by event correlation and aggregation function that a data processing condition exists that should be or may be addressed to maintain or improve system performance. Event based service request may indicate to workload manager the particular condition that has been determined to exist. In this case workload manager may determine the appropriate action to take in response to the indicated condition. Alternatively service desk ticketing function may determine the action that needs to be taken in response to a particular condition that has been determined to exist. In this case event based service request may indicate to workload manager the action that is being requested.

In any case workload manager may determine whether or not any action may be taken in response to a particular data processing condition based on policies . If workload manager determines that action will be taken in response to a particular data processing condition workload manager may implement such action based on policies . For example workload manager may respond to event based service request by implementing appropriate policy based provisioning of data processing resources as needed to respond to a detected data processing condition.

Workload manager also may respond to event based service request by generating service fulfillment response . For example service fulfillment response may be generated by workload manager and delivered to service desk ticketing function . Service fulfillment response may indicate that event based service request has been received by workload manager . Service fulfillment response also may indicate that appropriate action has been taken or will be taken in response to event based service request . In this case service fulfillment response may or may not specify the particular action taken or to be taken by workload manager in response to event based service request . In some cases workload manager may not be able to take action to change data processing conditions in response to event based service request . For example policies may prevent workload manager from taking action in response to event based service request at a particular time. In this case service fulfillment response may indicate that action will not be taken by workload manager in response to event based service request or that the implementation of such action may be delayed. Policies responsible for such a failure to act or for such a delay may or may not be identified in service fulfillment response .

The information provided by event based service request and service fulfillment response may be formatted appropriately and displayed for a user on monitoring station . By displaying information from event based service request and service fulfillment response in this manner a user is able to monitor the detection of data processing system conditions for which an appropriate action may be taken and the response of workload manager to the detection of such conditions.

In accordance with an illustrative embodiment hybrid cloud integrator makes it possible for workload manager to respond to determined data processing conditions of interest in consumer data processing resources in provider data processing resources or both. Furthermore hybrid cloud integrator makes it possible for workload manager to access consumer data processing resources provider data processing resources or both for responding to determined conditions of interest. Thus hybrid cloud integrator makes it possible for workload manager to provide integrated data processing resource management across hybrid cloud by providing for monitoring of data processing conditions across hybrid cloud and by providing access to data processing resources across hybrid cloud when responding to such conditions.

For example hybrid cloud integrator may be used to establish monitoring of the processing of portions of consumer workload by provider data processing resources while processing of other portions of consumer workload by consumer data processing resources also is monitored at the same time. Based on such monitoring an overload condition or underutilization condition on consumer data processing resources on provider data processing resources or both may be determined. In response to such a determination workload manager may activate or deactivate selected consumer data processing resources may deploy or release selected provider data processing resources using hybrid cloud integrator in the manner described or both. Processing of portions of consumer workload then may be allocated by workload manager across the reconfigured resources of hybrid cloud to remedy the determined overload or underutilization condition. The particular action taken by workload manager in response to the determined condition may be determined by policies .

Turning now to a block diagram of a data processing environment for monitoring data processing resources in accordance with an illustrative embodiment is depicted. In this example data processing environment is an example of one implementation of data processing environment in . In this example data processing environment comprises consumer data processing resources and provider data processing resources . One or more of consumer data processing resources and provider data processing resources may comprise cloud based resources in which the data processing resources are provided as a service. In this case data processing environment may be referred to as a hybrid cloud.

Consumer data processing resources may comprise for example on premise data processing resources. For example consumer data processing resources may comprise data processing resources found in a customer data center. In other examples consumer data processing resources may comprise cloud based resources in which consumer data processing resources are provided as a service. For example consumer data processing resources may comprise private cloud or public cloud data processing resources. In any case various applications middleware components and other workload processing resources such as those represented by service instances and may be installed provisioned and configured by a consumer of data processing resources on consumer data processing resources . These processing resources may be referred to as workload processing service instances or simply as service instances. For example service instances and may be instantiated on consumer data processing resources to process all or portions of a consumer workload.

Provider data processing resources may comprise cloud based resources that are provided as a service. For example provider data processing resources may comprise infrastructure as a service platform as a service software as a service or other cloud services. In this example provider data processing resources comprise public clouds and . Public clouds and may be provided by different vendors. In this case knowledge of different application programming interfaces and other requirements may be needed in order to access the services on public clouds and .

Various cloud provided service instances and may be provisioned and configured to process the workload of a consumer of data processing resources in public clouds and . For example service instances and may be provisioned and configured by a consumer of cloud data processing resources to process portions of a consumer workload. The consumer of cloud data processing resources may employ hybrid cloud integrator to provision resources on public clouds and to instantiate service instances and . In this example hybrid cloud integrator is implemented on consumer data processing resources .

A consumer of data processing resources will desire to manage service instances and across data processing environment in an integrated manner. Such integrated management requires integrated monitoring of service instances and across data processing environment . Such integrated monitoring may be provided by monitoring infrastructure . For example monitoring infrastructure may be implemented on consumer data processing resources . Monitoring infrastructure may be implemented using any combination of hardware and software components to provide the desired integrated monitoring functionality. For example without limitation monitoring infrastructure may comprise an IBM Tivoli monitoring server for providing such integrated monitoring.

Monitoring of service instances and on consumer data processing resources may be straightforward. Consumer side monitoring agents and may be implemented on consumer data processing resources to monitor service instances and respectively. Consumer side monitoring agents and may be implemented in any manner to provide the desired functionality for monitoring service instances and and providing monitored data to monitoring infrastructure . For example consumer side monitoring agents and may push such monitored data to monitoring infrastructure . For example without limitation consumer side monitoring agents and may comprise IBM Tivoli monitoring agents.

Monitoring of service instances and on provider data processing resources by monitoring infrastructure may be more problematic. In many cases provider data processing resources may be separated from consumer data processing resources by one or more firewalls and . For example firewalls and may be provided by or associated with public clouds and respectively. Firewall may be provided by or associated with consumer data processing resources . In this case firewall may be implemented to prevent unauthorized access to consumer data processing resources from outside of consumer data processing resources . In particular firewall may prevent data from being pushed from provider data processing resources to consumer data processing resources .

In accordance with an illustrative embodiment monitoring of service instances and on provider data processing resources by monitoring infrastructure is enabled by consumer side monitoring gateway operating in combination with provider side monitoring gateways and . In accordance with an illustrative embodiment consumer side monitoring gateway and provider side monitoring gateways and may be implemented using hybrid cloud integrator .

In accordance with an illustrative embodiment consumer side monitoring gateway may be implemented by cloud monitoring service implemented in hybrid cloud integrator . For example cloud monitoring service may be implemented as a cloud monitoring plug in to the software framework provided by hybrid cloud integrator . Consumer side monitoring gateway may pull monitored data across firewall from provider side monitoring gateways and . Consumer side monitoring gateway may then push such monitored data to monitoring infrastructure .

Provider side monitoring gateways and may be provisioned configured and deployed using cloud service broker cloud security service and cloud monitoring service . For example cloud service broker may be implemented as a cloud service broker plug in to the software framework provided by hybrid cloud integrator . Cloud service broker may be used to provision provider side monitoring gateways and in public clouds and respectively. Cloud service broker also may be used by a consumer of data processing resources to provision resources in public clouds and for service instances and . Cloud service broker may provide a vendor neutral interface for a consumer of data processing resources to access provider data processing resources on various public clouds and without requiring specific knowledge of various different cloud interfaces by the consumer of data processing resources.

After provider side monitoring gateways and are provisioned by cloud service broker cloud service broker may activate cloud security service . Cloud security service may be implemented as a cloud security service plug in to the software framework provided by hybrid cloud integrator . Cloud security service may configure the firewall and access settings of provider side monitoring gateways and . These configuration settings may allow access to provider side monitoring gateways and only by authorized provider side monitoring agents and . These configuration settings also may restrict access to the monitored data collected in provider side monitoring gateways and to authorized consumer side monitoring gateway .

After cloud security service has completed the security and isolation configuration of provider side monitoring gateways and cloud service broker may activate cloud monitoring service to configure and start provider side monitoring gateways and . Cloud monitoring service may configure port settings for provider side monitoring gateways and so that provider side monitoring agents and can contact and communicate with their respective provider side monitoring gateway or . Cloud monitoring service also may configure provider side monitoring gateways and to listen on specific ports for contact by consumer side monitoring gateway . Cloud monitoring service also may configure consumer side monitoring gateway to contact provider side monitoring gateways and on the predefined ports and IP addresses. This configuration of provider side monitoring gateways and and consumer side monitoring gateway by cloud monitoring service allows for communication to take place between provider side monitoring gateways and and consumer side monitoring gateway .

Service instances and may be provisioned by cloud service broker . When each service instance and is provisioned cloud monitoring service may install configure and start a corresponding provider side monitoring agent and respectively. Thus to enable monitoring on service instances and in public clouds and cloud service broker and cloud monitoring service may coordinate with each other. In one illustrative embodiment cloud service broker provisions a service instance and invokes cloud security service . Cloud security service configures the service instances provisioned in the cloud so that cloud monitoring service can access the service instance and enable monitoring of the service via a monitoring agent. As discussed elsewhere herein cloud service broker cloud security service and cloud monitoring service may use communication services provided by the framework of hybrid cloud integrator . Further the framework of hybrid cloud integrator may provide for communication between plug in components of hybrid cloud integrator . The coordination between cloud service broker cloud security service and cloud monitoring service may use communication services provided by the framework of hybrid cloud integrator .

Provider side monitoring agents and may operate in a manner similar to consumer side monitoring agents and . In particular provider side monitoring agents and may monitor corresponding service instances and respectively and provide monitored data to provider side monitoring gateways and . This monitored data may be retained at provider side monitoring gateways and until the data is retrieved from provider side monitoring gateways and by consumer side monitoring gateway .

Cloud security service may be implemented as a cloud security service plug in to the software framework provided by hybrid cloud integrator . Cloud security service may be employed by cloud service broker when implementing provider side monitoring gateways and and provider side monitoring agents and to implement virtual private security zones. Such security zones may be used to ensure that appropriate security is maintained between service instances and operating on public clouds and while allowing for monitored data from service instances and to be shared with provider side monitoring gateways and and ultimately funneled through consumer side monitoring gateway to monitoring infrastructure . Virtual private security zones and the use thereof in various applications will be described in more detail below.

When activated provider side monitoring agents and monitor corresponding service instances and and provide corresponding monitored data to provider side monitoring gateways and . Consumer side monitoring gateway may then be activated to retrieve the monitored data across firewall from provider side monitoring gateways and . The retrieved monitored data then may be provided from consumer side monitoring gateway to monitoring infrastructure . From the point of view of monitoring infrastructure monitored data from service instances and on provider data processing resources may be received from provider side monitoring agents and respectively in the same manner as monitored data from service instances and on consumer data processing resources is received from consumer side monitoring agents and respectively. The operations performed by provider side monitoring gateways and and consumer side monitoring gateway thus may be transparent to monitoring infrastructure .

Monitoring infrastructure may generate an integrated view of monitored service instances and across data processing environment from the monitored data provided by consumer side monitoring agents and and provider side monitoring agents and respectively. This integrated view of monitored services may be presented to user via an interactive monitoring portal . For example user may be a system administrator. Monitoring portal may be accessed by user using a browser and used in an interactive manner on a monitoring dashboard. The integrated view of monitored services generated by monitoring infrastructure also may be used to provide for fully automated or partially automated management of data processing resources across data processing environment . For example the integrated view of monitored services generated by monitoring infrastructure may be used by an automated workload manager to provide fully automated or partially automated integrated workload management across data processing environment .

Example scenarios in accordance with illustrative embodiments for using the components of a hybrid cloud integrator to establish integrated monitoring of data processing resources across a hybrid cloud data processing environment are presented in more detail below.

The illustrations of and are not meant to imply physical or architectural limitations to the manner in which different illustrative embodiments may be implemented. Other components in addition to or in place of the ones illustrated may be used. Some components may be unnecessary in some illustrative embodiments. Also the blocks are presented to illustrate some functional components. One or more of these blocks may be combined or divided into different blocks when implemented in different illustrative embodiments.

For example a request to monitor a service instance may be generated automatically as part of creation of the service instance may be generated automatically as part of modification of the service instance or may be generated as part of a life cycle of the service instance. A request to monitor a service instance may be made by a user of the service instance by a provider of data processing resources or by a consumer of data processing resources. Monitored data from a service instance may be provided from self monitoring by the service instance from a monitoring agent configured to monitor the service instance from a script internal to the service instance or from a script external to the service instance.

Illustrative embodiments may be implemented for application in a hybrid cloud environment that comprises one or more public clouds in combination with one or more private clouds. Illustrative embodiments may be implemented for application in a hybrid cloud environment that may include multiple private clouds community clouds or public clouds in any combination. In accordance with an illustrative embodiment a hybrid cloud integrator may be used to provide integration of data processing resources across multiple private public and community clouds in any combination.

A hybrid cloud integrator in accordance with an illustrative embodiment may be used for integrated monitoring and management across a hybrid cloud for purposes of detecting and responding to data processing conditions such as data processing resource overload conditions underutilization conditions or other conditions or combinations of conditions. For example without limitation a hybrid cloud integrator in accordance with an illustrative embodiment may be used to provide integrated management across a hybrid cloud for monitoring metering security or any other data processing related conditions or combinations of conditions.

Integrated monitoring and management of data processing resources across a hybrid cloud using a hybrid cloud integrator in accordance with an illustrative embodiment may be implemented automatically using an automated management system such as workload manger . Alternatively monitoring and management using a hybrid cloud integrator in accordance with an illustrative embodiment may be provided by a human system manager using appropriate system interfaces such as user interface monitoring station or monitoring portal in combination with other appropriate system interfaces. Monitoring and management using a hybrid cloud integrator in accordance with an illustrative embodiment may be provided by an automated management system and a human system manager operating together.

Referring now to a block diagram of a data processing system is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. In this example data processing system is one example of a data processing system that may be used to implement consumer data processing resources and provider data processing resources in or consumer data processing resources and provider data processing resources in . In this illustrative example data processing system includes communications fabric which provides communications between processor unit memory persistent storage communications unit input output I O unit and display .

Processor unit serves to execute instructions for software that may be loaded into memory . Processor unit may be a number of processors a multi processor core or some other type of processor depending on the particular implementation. A number as used herein with reference to an item means one or more items. Further processor unit may be implemented using a number of heterogeneous processor systems in which a main processor is present with secondary processors on a single chip. As another illustrative example processor unit may be a symmetric multi processor system containing multiple processors of the same type.

Memory and persistent storage are examples of storage devices . A storage device is any piece of hardware that is capable of storing information such as for example without limitation data program code in functional form and or other suitable information either on a temporary basis and or a permanent basis. Storage devices also may be referred to as computer readable storage devices in these examples. Memory in these examples may be for example a random access memory or any other suitable volatile or non volatile storage device. Persistent storage may take various forms depending on the particular implementation.

For example persistent storage may contain one or more components or devices. For example persistent storage may be a hard drive a flash memory a rewritable optical disk a rewritable magnetic tape or some combination of the above. The media used by persistent storage also may be removable. For example a removable hard drive may be used for persistent storage .

Communications unit in these examples provides for communications with other data processing systems or devices. In these examples communications unit is a network interface card. Communications unit may provide communications through the use of either or both physical and wireless communications links.

Input output unit allows for input and output of data with other devices that may be connected to data processing system . For example input output unit may provide a connection for user input through a keyboard a mouse and or some other suitable input device. Further input output unit may send output to a printer. Display provides a mechanism to display information to a user.

Instructions for the operating system applications and or programs may be located in storage devices which are in communication with processor unit through communications fabric . In these illustrative examples the instructions are in a functional form on persistent storage . These instructions may be loaded into memory for execution by processor unit . The processes of the different embodiments may be performed by processor unit using computer implemented instructions which may be located in a memory such as memory .

These instructions are referred to as program instructions program code computer usable program code or computer readable program code that may be read and executed by a processor in processor unit . The program code in the different embodiments may be embodied on different physical or computer readable storage media such as memory or persistent storage .

Program code is located in a functional form on computer readable media that is selectively removable and may be loaded onto or transferred to data processing system for execution by processor unit . Program code and computer readable media form computer program product in these examples. In one example computer readable media may be computer readable storage media or computer readable signal media . Computer readable storage media may include for example an optical or magnetic disk that is inserted or placed into a drive or other device that is part of persistent storage for transfer onto a storage device such as a hard drive that is part of persistent storage . Computer readable storage media also may take the form of a persistent storage such as a hard drive a thumb drive or a flash memory that is connected to data processing system . In some instances computer readable storage media may not be removable from data processing system .

Alternatively program code may be transferred to data processing system using computer readable signal media . Computer readable signal media may be for example a propagated data signal containing program code . For example computer readable signal media may be an electromagnetic signal an optical signal and or any other suitable type of signal. These signals may be transmitted over communications links such as wireless communications links optical fiber cable coaxial cable a wire and or any other suitable type of communications link. In other words the communications link and or the connection may be physical or wireless in the illustrative examples.

In some advantageous embodiments program code may be downloaded over a network to persistent storage from another device or data processing system through computer readable signal media for use within data processing system . For instance program code stored in a computer readable storage medium in a server data processing system may be downloaded over a network from the server to data processing system . The data processing system providing program code may be a server computer a client computer or some other device capable of storing and transmitting program code .

The different components illustrated for data processing system are not meant to provide architectural limitations to the manner in which different embodiments may be implemented. The different illustrative embodiments may be implemented in a data processing system including components in addition to or in place of those illustrated for data processing system . Other components shown in can be varied from the illustrative examples shown. The different embodiments may be implemented using any hardware device or system capable of running program code. As one example the data processing system may include organic components integrated with inorganic components and or may be comprised entirely of organic components excluding a human being. For example a storage device may be comprised of an organic semiconductor.

In another illustrative example processor unit may take the form of a hardware unit that has circuits that are manufactured or configured for a particular use. This type of hardware may perform operations without needing program code to be loaded into a memory from a storage device to be configured to perform the operations.

For example when processor unit takes the form of a hardware unit processor unit may be a circuit system an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a programmable logic device or some other suitable type of hardware configured to perform a number of operations. With a programmable logic device the device is configured to perform the number of operations. The device may be reconfigured at a later time or may be permanently configured to perform the number of operations. Examples of programmable logic devices include for example a programmable logic array programmable array logic a field programmable logic array a field programmable gate array and other suitable hardware devices. With this type of implementation program code may be omitted because the processes for the different embodiments are implemented in a hardware unit.

In still another illustrative example processor unit may be implemented using a combination of processors found in computers and hardware units. Processor unit may have a number of hardware units and a number of processors that are configured to run program code . With this depicted example some of the processes may be implemented in the number of hardware units while other processes may be implemented in the number of processors.

As another example a storage device in data processing system is any hardware apparatus that may store data. Memory persistent storage and computer readable media are examples of storage devices in a tangible form.

In another example a bus system may be used to implement communications fabric and may be comprised of one or more buses such as a system bus or an input output bus. Of course the bus system may be implemented using any suitable type of architecture that provides for a transfer of data between different components or devices attached to the bus system. Additionally communications unit may include one or more devices used to transmit and receive data such as a modem or a network adapter. Further a memory may be for example memory or a cache such as found in an interface and memory controller hub that may be present in communications fabric .

Referring now to a block diagram of a hybrid cloud integrator is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. In this example hybrid cloud integrator is an example of one implementation of hybrid cloud integrator of or hybrid cloud integrator of . Hybrid cloud integrator includes plug in interface and runtime management functions and service connectivity management function . In accordance with an illustrative embodiment plug in interface and runtime management functions and service connectivity management function are implemented in software framework . A number of plug ins and may be installed in hybrid cloud integrator and managed during runtime using plug in interface and runtime management functions .

Service connectivity management function provides access to plug ins and via user interface . Service connectivity management function allows an operator to manage the configuration and other parameters of plug ins and via user interface . Service connectivity management function may be used to obtain information about plug ins and from plug ins and via user interface . For example service connectivity management function may allow a user to access configuration information and other information from plug ins and via user interface . Service connectivity management function also may be used to provide configuration data and other parameter information to plug ins and via user interface . For example service connectivity management function allows a user to change configuration and other parameters of plug ins and via user interface . In accordance with an illustrative embodiment service connectivity management function may employ a common service connectivity management protocol for interaction between plug ins and and user interface . Thus service connectivity management function provides a common infrastructure for configuring plug ins and .

Plug in interface and runtime management functions may provide various functions for installing and managing plug ins and during runtime. For example plug in interface and runtime management functions may provide the following function for registering a plug in as an integration provider in hybrid cloud integrator . This function causes the plug in to be loaded into hybrid cloud integrator and activated.

The following functions may be implemented by selected ones of plug ins and and called by plug in interface and runtime management functions .

Plug in interface and runtime management functions in accordance with an illustrative embodiment may provide different functions from those functions listed as examples above.

Plug ins and may include for example and without limitation one or more of storage cloud service broker cloud service broker cloud metering plug in cloud monitoring plug in and cloud security service plug in . In this example storage cloud service broker and cloud service broker are examples of service deployment and integration components in . In this example cloud metering plug in cloud monitoring plug in and cloud security service plug in are examples of management integration components in .

Hybrid cloud integrator may be implemented on integration platform . For example software framework and plug ins and may be implemented for operation on integration platform . Integration platform comprises hardware . Hardware may include data processing system hardware such as computer hardware. For example without limitation hardware may include IBM WebSphere Data Power 9004 1U appliance hardware. Operating system runs on hardware . For example without limitation operating system may include the IBM MCP 6.0 embedded LINUX operating system. Operating system supports appliance foundation . For example without limitation appliance foundation may include the IBM WebSphere BEDROCK appliance foundation. Runtime environment is at the highest level of integration platform . For example without limitation runtime environment may include a JAVA sMASH runtime environment. In accordance with an illustrative embodiment integration platform may be implemented using hardware operating system appliance foundation and runtime environment components that are different from the components listed as examples herein.

A hybrid cloud integrator plug in in accordance with an illustrative embodiment is described in more detail with reference to a specific example. Referring now to a block diagram of a cloud service broker plug in is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. Cloud service broker is an example of a hybrid cloud integrator plug in in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. In accordance with an illustrative embodiment cloud service broker is implemented as a plug in component of hybrid cloud integrator . For example cloud service broker may be deployed in a software framework of hybrid cloud integrator in the manner described above to provide data processing services provisioning and management in a hybrid cloud. Cloud service broker may be configured for a particular application via a user interface associated with hybrid cloud integrator . Use of cloud service broker in accordance with an illustrative embodiment thus centralizes configuration for cloud access.

Cloud service broker may be for example an infrastructure as a service cloud service broker. An infrastructure as a service cloud service broker may be used to provision infrastructure as a service cloud services. Alternatively cloud service broker may be configured to provision and manage other types of cloud services.

In accordance with an illustrative embodiment cloud service broker may be used by applications to provision cloud services and . For example applications may include workload management applications . Workload management applications may be used by consumer of data processing resources for example to allocate portions of consumer workload for processing by cloud services and . Applications may be implemented on consumer data processing resources . For example consumer data processing resources may include a computer network that is owned or controlled by consumer of data processing resources for the exclusive use of consumer of data processing resources .

Cloud services and may be data processing resources provided as services by public clouds and respectively. For example cloud services and may include infrastructure as a service or other data processing resources provided as a service by public clouds and . Public clouds and include public cloud interfaces and respectively. Public cloud interfaces and are the interfaces by which consumer of data processing resources provisions and manages cloud services and for use. For example public cloud interfaces and may include different application programming interfaces that are unique to each of public clouds and . Although two public clouds public clouds and are shown in cloud service broker may be used to provide cloud service provisioning and management for a single cloud of any type or for more than two clouds of any type.

In accordance with an illustrative embodiment cloud service broker provides cloud service broker interface . Cloud service broker interface provides a single vendor neutral interface for provisioning and managing cloud services and from multiple public clouds and . For example cloud service broker may be made accessible within consumer data processing resources from a published location. Applications and other users wishing to use cloud services or may access such services via cloud service broker interface provided by cloud service broker . Applications and other users requesting cloud provisioning or management services via cloud service broker interface need not be aware of cloud specific configurations and public cloud interfaces and .

Cloud service broker may provide access to multiple vendor provided cloud services such as cloud services and using a centrally managed and administered component. For example in accordance with an illustrative embodiment cloud service broker provides interface management for managing public cloud interfaces and to public clouds and . Cloud service broker interfaces with individual vendor provided cloud services such as cloud services and using the appropriate vendor specific public cloud interfaces and and associated protocols. In accordance with an illustrative embodiment cloud service broker manages vendor specific requirements transparently to the clients of cloud service broker such as applications . For example addition deletion and modification in vendor provided cloud services and protocols or application programming public cloud interfaces and may be handled by cloud service broker in a manner that is transparent to applications and other users. Thus applications are shielded from library and application programming interface changes at the cloud level. Applications such as workload management applications only need be aware of cloud service broker interface to use cloud services and . Applications need not have details of public cloud interfaces and and other access details.

Cloud service broker may support provisioning and management of cloud services and provided by a number of different cloud types. In accordance with an illustrative embodiment cloud types supported by cloud service broker may be defined by cloud type plug ins to cloud service broker . Individual cloud type plug ins may be provided for each different cloud type that is supported by cloud service broker . Cloud type plug ins may define the particular parameters and protocols needed by cloud service broker to provision and manage cloud services and on various different types of clouds. Cloud type plug ins may come provided with product . Cloud type plug ins that come provided with product are provided along with cloud service broker when cloud service broker is first obtained and installed in hybrid cloud integrator . Alternatively or additionally cloud type plug ins may be downloaded and implemented configured and activated in cloud service broker at a later time.

Cloud service broker may be used for provisioning and management of cloud services and on specific instances of a cloud type. For example cloud service broker may be used to provision and manage cloud services and on multiple clouds of a given type or of more than one type. Cloud service broker may maintain cloud definitions for each such cloud instance. Cloud definitions define the details of cloud instances of various cloud types supported by cloud service broker . Each such cloud instance is defined by unique attributes that are specified in cloud definitions . Cloud instances may be identified in cloud definitions by an identifying cloud name or handle and the associated cloud instance attributes. The cloud name is used as an external key that is used by the system to identify automatically which cloud to address. Cloud attributes may include for example and without limitation cloud type end point address and location data. The cloud type may be identified based on supported application programming interfaces. For example IBM Compute Cloud and Amazon EC2 Cloud are examples of cloud types. The cloud end point address may be for example a universal resource locator. The cloud location includes cloud type specific location data. These details may be saved by cloud service broker as cloud definitions . Applications or other users of cloud service broker may use the name associated with one of cloud service broker cloud definitions to direct workload to cloud services and on the corresponding cloud instance.

In accordance with an illustrative embodiment cloud service broker may be used to provision cloud services and for any number of defined cloud types and instances of those cloud types. Cloud service broker also may provide an extensible set of service handlers . For example cloud service broker in accordance with an illustrative embodiment may provide a framework for handling custom service call parameters exception handling and result handling. An abstract class may be used to provide a common framework for all cloud type service implementations. A list of common services in the framework may be extended without the prerequisite of having all cloud type plug ins updated first. Cloud service broker may default to an exception for any not yet implemented cloud type plug ins. For example cloud service broker may default to UnsupportedCloudServiceException for any not yet implemented cloud type plug ins.

Examples of service handlers that may be supported by cloud service broker may include without limitation one or more of the following 

In accordance with an illustrative embodiment cloud service broker may provide an administrative control point for enforcement of policies . Policies may be defined by consumer of data processing resources or another entity to define limits or conditions for provisioning services by cloud service broker . For example policies may define or limit the cloud types or cloud instances that may be provisioned by cloud service broker or the conditions under which cloud services may be provisioned by cloud service broker .

Turning now to a block diagram of an event correlation service is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. In this example event correlation service is an example of one implementation of event correlation and aggregation function in . Event correlation service may be deployed on top of a hybrid cloud monitoring system. For example event correlation service may be deployed in association with a monitoring infrastructure such as monitoring infrastructure in . In this case event correlation service may correlate and aggregate events across a hybrid cloud that are provided to event correlation service by the associated monitoring infrastructure.

In accordance with an illustrative embodiment event correlation service includes event correlation service software framework . Event correlation service software framework may be a modular framework for designing and deploying event correlation software plug ins .

Event correlation service software framework may provide application programming interface . Application programming interface may provide for the runtime instantiation of a number of event correlation software instances of event correlation software plug ins . For example without limitation one of event correlation software instances may be deployed per workload instance. Alternatively one of event correlation software instances may perform correlations across multiple workload instances. For example one of event correlation software instances may perform correlations across multiple workload instances of the same type. Event correlation software instances may be configured for monitoring and correlating workload specific events across hybrid cloud . Application programming interface also may be configured to allow a user to specify workload specific parameters for event correlation software instances . In accordance with an illustrative embodiment application programming interface may be common to all event correlation software plug ins in event correlation service . Therefore parameters for all event correlation software plug ins in event correlation service may be displayed and configured using the same application programming interface .

In accordance with an illustrative embodiment event correlation software plug ins may provide functions for monitoring and correlating events of specific types and from specific sources. Event correlation software plug ins may be key performance indicator specific. Therefore event correlation software instances of event correlation software plug ins may be configured to correlate specific types of events aggregated over hybrid cloud processing a workload.

For example without limitation hybrid cloud may include data processing services on public cloud data processing services on public cloud and data processing services on private cloud . Data processing services and may be configured and operated to process a consumer workload. In this example events that occur in data processing services and during processing of the consumer workload may be correlated and aggregated by event correlation service . In one example without limitation event correlation service may be implemented on private cloud . In this case private cloud may be a data center operated by the consumer and may be used to process all or parts of the consumer workload. In other embodiments event correlation service may be implemented at any other location in hybrid cloud or outside of hybrid cloud . For example without limitation event correlation service may be offered as a cloud based event correlation service.

Data processing services and may be monitored during processing of the workload by data processing services and . Monitored data obtained by monitoring data processing services and during processing of the workload may be aggregated and provided to event correlation service . Monitored data from data processing services and may be obtained and reported to event correlation service in any appropriate manner. For example without limitation monitored data from data processing services and may be obtained and provided to event correlation service by monitoring infrastructure using hybrid cloud integrator in the manner described elsewhere in this application. The flow of monitored data from data processing services and distributed through hybrid cloud to event correlation service via monitoring infrastructure using hybrid cloud integrator is shown by solid lines and in .

Monitored data from data processing services and may be received by event correlation service software framework in event correlation service . Event correlation service software framework then may provide the monitored data to event correlation software instances for processing. From the point of view of event correlation software instances the route of monitored data from data processing services and to event correlation software instances is not important. Therefore to describe an illustrative embodiment of event correlation service more generically it may be said simply that monitored data from data processing services and may be provided to event correlation software instances for processing as shown by dashed lines and in .

In accordance with an illustrative embodiment event correlation software instances are instances of event correlation software plug ins . Event correlation software plug ins include correlation parameters . Correlation parameters may be plug in specific workload specific or both. Correlation parameters may define in whole or in part the event correlation functions that will be performed by event correlation software instances of event correlation software plug ins . The event correlation functions may be defined as functions of data monitored by monitoring infrastructure . For example without limitation correlation parameters for event correlation software plug ins may define event correlation functions for specific types of events or events from specific sources. Thus event correlation software plug ins may be specialized for specific types of event correlation.

Event correlation service may be used to correlate many different types of events. For example without limitation event correlation service may be used to correlate an event of aggregate average resource utilization by a workload exceeding or falling below specified thresholds. Different types of resources may be of importance to workloads. Therefore the thresholds may be defined in terms of various data processing resource characteristics. For example some workloads may be sensitive to available CPU cycles. Other workloads may be sensitive to memory or disk capacity or other data processing resource characteristics. Some workloads may have more complex thresholds such as maximum or minimum resource utilization average response time throughput or other thresholds or combinations of thresholds. In accordance with an illustrative embodiment an application workload or information technology administrator may respond to different types of key performance indicators by using event correlation service to define events accordingly.

To correlate events for a specific workload being processed in hybrid cloud event correlation software instances are created from selected event correlation software plug ins for the specific types of event correlation to be performed. Event correlation software instances inherit correlation parameters from event correlation software plug ins from which they are created. Event correlation software instances also may be provided workload specific parameters . Workload specific parameters may modify the event correlation functions defined by event correlation software plug ins for a specific workload. Monitored data from data processing services and processing the workload is processed by event correlation software instances using correlation parameters inherited from event correlation software plug ins and workload specific parameters to identify events of interest that occur in hybrid cloud during processing of the workload.

For example without limitation processing of monitored data from data processing services and by event correlation service software instances may include correlating the monitored data from data processing services and that are processing a workload in hybrid cloud to provide correlated data. Event correlation service software instances then may determine whether the correlated data exceeds a threshold. The occurrence of an event of interest may be identified in response to a determination that the correlated data exceeds the threshold. The data to be correlated methods of correlation and thresholds employed by event correlation software instances may be defined by correlation parameters workload specific parameters or both.

A hierarchy of event correlation software instances may be used to define and correlate complex events for monitoring complex workloads in hybrid cloud . For example the results of event correlation by a number of correlation software instances may be provided via event correlation service software framework to other correlation software instances for further processing. Thus events may be further aggregated and correlated across multiple correlation software instances to derive and correlate higher level complex events of interest.

Event correlation software instances may employ quorum rules for processing data from data processing services and . Quorum rules may be provided as correlation parameters in event correlation software plug ins . Alternatively or additionally quorum rules may be provided as workload specific parameters . Furthermore quorum rules may be managed dynamically. For example without limitation quorum rules may be managed dynamically by workload manager using application programming interface provided by event correlation service software framework .

Quorum rules define an event horizon over which events of interest are aggregated. Quorum rules may define a quorum number of data processing services from which relevant monitored data must be received in a defined time period before the data is processed by event correlation software instances to identify the occurrence of events of interest. The quorum number of data processing services may be less than the total number of data processing services that are processing a workload in hybrid cloud . For example due to the fact that data processing services and processing a workload may be distributed throughout hybrid cloud it is possible that data from one or more of data processing resources and that may be used by event correlation software instances to identify events may be delayed or lost. However quorum rules may specify that if relevant data is received from at least the quorum number of data processing resources and within the defined time period then event correlation software instances may proceed to process the data that was received to identify events of interest occurring during processing of the workload.

An output may be provided directly or indirectly to workload manager or to another device system or process for events of interest that are identified by event correlation service . For example without limitation an output for events of interest that are identified by event correlation service may be provided from event correlation software instances to workload manager via event correlation service software framework . Workload manager then may respond proactively or reactively to the events of interest in an appropriate manner. For example without limitation actions that workload manager may take or initiate in response to the occurrence of events of interest may include accessing other types of data processing services triggering alerts starting or stopping data processing services or other appropriate actions or combinations of actions.

Workload manager or another user may select the event correlation software instances that are to be created to provide event correlation for a specific workload being processed in hybrid cloud . For example using application programming interface provided by event correlation service software framework workload manager or another user may select event correlation software plug ins and workload specific parameters for creating event correlation software instances to perform the desired event correlation for the specific workload.

In some cases workload manager or another user may determine that event correlation software plug ins for providing a desired type of event correlation may not be registered with event correlation service software framework . In this case workload manager or another user may use application programming interface provided by event correlation service software framework to load and register event correlation software plug ins for providing the desired type of event correlations with event correlation service software framework . Event correlation software instances then may be created from the newly loaded and registered event correlation service software plug ins .

Data processing services and provisioned in hybrid cloud to process a workload may change dynamically. For example data processing services and may be stopped started added as new resources and or may perform different types of functions as workload manager redistributes workload processing among available data processing resources in hybrid cloud . In accordance with an illustrative embodiment event correlation service is capable of adapting to such dynamic changes in the composition of data processing services and processing a workload. For example workload manager may use application programming interface provided by event correlation service software framework to start stop and or change event correlation software instances as necessary in response to any change in the composition of data processing resources and processing a workload.

Event correlation service software framework may comprise event correlation service core . For example without limitation in one embodiment event correlation software plug ins may be a Java Class or an archived collection of classes jar where at least one class implements plug in interface PluginIntf. PluginIntf extends Runnable and adds a single method 

alias is the name of the instance of the plug in type. Together name and alias uniquely identify the plug in.

Event correlation service core may periodically check the event correlation service properties file. When a new plug in instance of a specific plug in type i.e. class is detected and its enable property is true the event correlation service core may instantiate the plug in class with the properties from the event correlation service properties file pertaining to this plug in instance identified by alias using the selfConfigure method of the plug in interface. A direct call to the event correlation service core may force it to immediately instantiate a new plug in. Event correlation software plug ins may be disabled by setting an enable property to false.

Event correlation service may be implemented using runtime container . For example without limitation runtime container may be implemented using IBM Netcool Impact runtime container.

Referring now to a flowchart of a process for hybrid cloud monitoring is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. The method illustrated in may be implemented for example in data processing environment and using hybrid cloud integrator in or in data processing environment and using hybrid cloud integrator in . The process illustrated in may be used to provide monitoring of data processing resources in a hybrid cloud environment. For example the process illustrated in may be used to obtain data from a number of data processing services processing a workload in a hybrid cloud for use by an event correlation service such as event correlation service in . In this example the hybrid cloud integrator is assumed to be implemented on a consumer side of the hybrid cloud. For example the hybrid cloud integrator may be implemented in a physical server or in a virtual server deployed in the on premise consumer data processing resources on the consumer side of the hybrid cloud.

Hybrid cloud monitoring in accordance with an illustrative embodiment may begin with setting up a hybrid cloud integrator with a cloud service broker cloud security service and cloud monitoring service plug ins step . For example step may include loading the appropriate plug ins into the hybrid cloud integrator framework. In other cases one or more of the appropriate plug ins already may be in place in the hybrid cloud integrator.

The hybrid cloud integrator then may be connected to the network so it can access consumer side data processing resources as well as provider side data processing resources step . The network access may be from inside the consumer network infrastructure and the access to provider side resources may be restricted because of firewalls and proxy servers at the boundary of the consumer side network and external networks including the network where the provider side resources are located.

The hybrid cloud monitoring service in the hybrid cloud integrator then may be configured via the hybrid cloud integrator user interface step . For example step may include configuring the cloud monitoring service on the hybrid cloud integrator as a provider of monitoring data for cloud provided services to a monitoring infrastructure. The monitoring infrastructure may be implemented on the consumer side of the hybrid cloud. Step may include using the hybrid cloud integrator user interface to configure the cloud monitoring service as a new consumer side provider to the monitoring infrastructure. For example this configuration step may include without limitation providing a name description and role for the cloud monitoring service acting as a provider to the monitoring infrastructure. Parameters to be provided as part of the configuration step may include without limitation identification of the host server for the monitoring infrastructure identification of a port for communicating with the monitoring infrastructure identification of an address for the consumer side monitoring gateway that will communicate with the monitoring infrastructure and identification of a protocol for communication between the consumer side monitoring gateway and the monitoring infrastructure.

Step also may include configuring the cloud monitoring service on the hybrid cloud integrator by identifying the service or services to be monitored on the provider side of the hybrid cloud. This step may include creating a new provider side service participant to be monitored. For example this step may include without limitation identifying a name description and role of the cloud service to be monitored. Parameters to be provided at this part of the configuration may include without limitation an end point address and location for the cloud service to be monitored. For example without limitation the end point address may be provided as a universal resource locater address for the cloud service to be monitored.

A provider side monitoring gateway then is established and a provider side monitoring agent is set up configured and started step . The provider side monitoring gateway may be provided on the provider side of a firewall that separates the provider side from the consumer side of a hybrid cloud. For example the provider side of the hybrid cloud may be provided on a public cloud. Step may be implemented using the services of the cloud service broker and the cloud security service. In one example step may include automated instantiation and configuration of the provider side monitoring gateway using the services of the cloud service broker. In another example step may include setting up an existing provider side monitoring gateway for use with the provider side monitoring agent. Step may include receiving via the hybrid cloud integrator a user selection indicating the process to be used to establish the provider side monitoring gateway. Step may include providing configuration parameters for the provider side monitoring gateway to the hybrid cloud integrator via the hybrid cloud integrator user interface. Such configuration parameters may include without limitation identification of a monitoring gateway image to be used to establish the provider side monitoring gateway and an address for the provider side monitoring gateway. For example without limitation the address for the provider side monitoring gateway may be provided as an internet protocol address. In any case the provider side monitoring agent may monitor processing on the provider side of the hybrid cloud and provide resulting monitored data to the provider side monitoring gateway.

A consumer side monitoring gateway is configured and started on the consumer side of the hybrid cloud step . For example step may include implementing the consumer side monitoring gateway by a cloud monitoring service plug in to the hybrid cloud integrator. The consumer side monitoring gateway provides the source of provider side monitoring information to a monitoring infrastructure for monitoring resources on the provider side of the hybrid cloud. Step may include configuring the consumer side monitoring gateway to communicate with the monitoring infrastructure.

A connection between the consumer side monitoring gateway and the monitoring infrastructure is then set up step . The monitoring infrastructure may be implemented in the consumer side data processing system. Thus the monitoring infrastructure may be on the same side of the firewall as the consumer side monitoring gateway. The monitoring infrastructure may be implemented using a number of commercially available products for monitoring the operation of data processing resources. In another embodiment cloud based monitoring services may be used instead of a physical monitoring infrastructure.

A connection between the consumer side monitoring gateway and the provider side monitoring gateway is then set up step . The connection between the consumer side monitoring gateway and the provider side monitoring gateway may be established as a secure connection through the firewall that separates the consumer side from the provider side of the hybrid cloud.

Connections between monitoring agents on consumer side service instances and the monitoring infrastructure are set up step . The consumer side monitoring agents provide monitoring information related to operation of the consumer side service instances to the monitoring infrastructure. The consumer side monitoring agents may be on the same side of the firewall as the monitoring infrastructure. Therefore the consumer side monitoring agents may be set up to push monitoring information to the monitoring infrastructure as such information is detected or generated by the consumer side monitoring agents.

Connections between monitoring agents on provider side service instances and the provider side monitoring gateway are set up step . The provider side monitoring agents provide monitoring information related to operation of the provider side service instances to the provider side monitoring gateway. For example a monitoring agent may be installed and configured for each of several public cloud service instances to be monitored. Each public cloud side monitoring agent may be configured to monitor desired operating conditions of a public cloud service instance. Each public cloud side monitoring agent is configured to provide monitoring information to the provider side monitoring gateway. The provider side monitoring gateway is configured to receive the monitoring information from the public cloud side monitoring agents. Provisioning resources for the public cloud side monitoring agents and installing and configuring the monitoring agents may be performed remotely using appropriate service deployment component and management integration component plug ins in a hybrid cloud integrator in accordance with an illustrative embodiment.

Monitored data received from the provider side monitoring agents by the provider side gateway is transferred from the provider side monitoring gateway to the consumer side monitoring gateway step . Step may include transferring data through the firewall separating the consumer side from the provider side of the hybrid cloud. Therefore for security reasons step may be implemented by pulling data from the provider side monitoring gateway for transfer to the consumer side monitoring gateway. The provider side monitoring gateway may not be allowed to push data through the firewall to the consumer side of the hybrid cloud. Security of the consumer s data processing resources is maintained in this process since no data is pushed across the firewall from the provider side of the hybrid cloud.

The monitoring information pulled from the provider side gateway may be provided to the monitoring infrastructure via the consumer side gateway. From the point of view of the monitoring infrastructure the consumer side gateway provides monitoring information in the same manner as a consumer side monitoring agent for monitoring data processing resources on the consumer side of the hybrid cloud. With monitoring information for consumer side data processing resources provided by the consumer side monitoring agents and monitoring information for provider side data processing resources provided by the consumer side gateway a monitoring infrastructure is able to monitor simultaneously the operation of data processing resources on both sides of a hybrid cloud.

It may be determined that a new service instance to be monitored has been established on the provider side of the hybrid cloud step . In response to determining that a new service instance has been established a provider side monitoring agent may be started on the new instance and connected to the provider side monitoring gateway step . Step may include provisioning for the new monitoring agent on the provider side of the hybrid cloud and installing and configuring the new monitoring agent on the provider side of the hybrid cloud using the appropriate hybrid cloud integrator plug ins. Step also may include configuring the provider side monitoring gateway to receive monitoring information from the new provider side monitoring agent. For example step may include using the cloud security service plug in in the hybrid cloud integrator to implement security policies that allow for communication between the new provider side monitoring agent and the provider side monitoring gateway. Security policies that allow for communication between the new provider side monitoring agent and the provider side monitoring gateway may be implemented for example by adding the new provider side monitoring agent to an appropriate security zone that also includes the provider side monitoring gateway. The new provider side monitoring agent then may monitor the operation of the new service instance and provide monitoring information to the provider side monitoring gateway for transfer to the monitoring infrastructure via the consumer side monitoring gateway as described above.

It also may be determined that a service instance that was being monitored has been closed or otherwise will not be monitored for some reason step . In response to determining that monitoring of a service instance is to be stopped the monitoring connection to the closed service instance is disconnected step . If the closed service instance is on the consumer side of the hybrid cloud step may include disconnecting the connection between a monitoring agent on the consumer side service instance and the monitoring infrastructure. If the closed service instance is on the provider side of the hybrid cloud step may include closing the connection between the provider side monitoring gateway and the provider side monitoring agent for the closed instance. Closing the connection between the provider side monitoring gateway and the provider side monitoring agent for the closed instance may include configuring the provider side monitoring gateway to no longer receive information from the monitoring agent for the closed instance. For example step may include using the cloud security service plug in in the hybrid cloud integrator to implement security policies that prevent further communication between a provider side monitoring agent and the provider side monitoring gateway. Security policies that prevent communication between the provider side monitoring agent and the provider side monitoring gateway may be implemented for example by removing the provider side monitoring agent for the closed instance from the security zone that also includes the provider side monitoring gateway. Step also may include closing the monitoring agent that is no longer needed. Closing the monitoring agent that is no longer needed allows data processing resources that were being used for the closed monitoring agent to be released.

After closing a service instance on the provider side of a hybrid cloud it may be determined that there are no more service instances running on the provider side or otherwise that are to be monitored step . In response to determining that there are no longer any provider side service instances to be monitored the provider side monitoring gateway may be closed step with the process terminating thereafter. Closing the provider side monitoring gateway when there are no longer any provider services to be monitored allows the provider services that were being used for the provider side gateway to be released.

Returning now to step in response to determining that a new service instance has not been established the process proceeds to step to determine that a service instance that was being monitored has been closed or otherwise will not be monitored for some reason. In response to determining that monitoring of a service instance is not to be stopped the process iterates back to step and monitored data is transferred from the provider side monitoring gateway to the consumer side monitoring gateway.

Returning now to step in response to determining that there are provider side service instances to be monitored the process iterates back to step and monitored data is transferred from the provider side monitoring gateway to the consumer side monitoring gateway.

In some cases it may not be desirable to close the provider side monitoring gateway and release the corresponding provider data processing resources immediately when it is determined that there are no remaining provider side service instances to be monitored. For example in some cases it may be expected that monitoring of provider side services will be restarted after only a short intermission. In these cases it may be preferred to keep the provider side gateway in place but inactive even when there are no provider side service instances to be monitored. This allows the provider side monitoring gateway to be restarted quickly when new provider side service instances to be monitored are started. If the provider side monitoring gateway was closed and the corresponding provider side resources released resources would need to be re provisioned for the provider side monitoring gateway on the provider side of the hybrid cloud and the provider side monitoring gateway reinstalled and configured when new provider side service instances to be monitored are started. This process of provisioning installing and configuring a new provider side monitoring gateway would take much longer than restarting a temporarily deactivated gateway.

Turning now to a flowchart of a process for correlating events in data processing resources processing a workload is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. For example the process depicted in may be implemented in event correlation service in for correlating events occurring during processing of a workload by data processing services distributed through a hybrid cloud.

The process may begin by receiving a request to correlate events in data processing resources processing a workload operation . Operation may include receiving a request from a workload manager or other user to correlate events occurring during processing of a workload by data processing services distributed through a hybrid cloud. It then may be determined whether a software plug in for the desired type of event correlation to be performed is registered in the event correlation service operation . If a software plug in for the desired type of event correlation to be performed is not registered in the event correlation service a software plug in for the desired type of event correlation to be performed may be loaded and registered operation .

After loading and registering a software plug in for the desired type of event correlation to be performed or if it is determined at operation that a software plug in for the desired type of event correlation to be performed is already registered in the event correlation service an instance of the software plug in may be created operation . The event correlation software instance inherits correlation parameters for the desired type of event correlation from the software plug in. The event correlation software instance also may be created to include workload specific event correlation parameters. Monitored data is then received by the event correlation software instance from the data processing resources processing the workload operation . For example operation may include receiving the monitored data from data processing resources distributed in a hybrid cloud via a monitoring infrastructure using a hybrid cloud integrator as described elsewhere herein. If quorum rules are used by the event correlation software instance it may be determined whether the quorum rules are satisfied operation . For example the quorum rules may be satisfied if the appropriate data is received from at least a quorum number of data processing resources in the hybrid cloud within a defined time period. If the quorum rules are not satisfied the process may return to operation and the event correlation software instance may continue to receive monitored data from the data processing resources in the hybrid cloud until the quorum rules are satisfied.

If the quorum rules are satisfied the monitored data may be processed by the event correlation software instance to identify the occurrence of an event of interest operation . The correlation parameters inherited from the software plug in and any workload specific parameters may be used by the event correlation software instance for processing of the monitored data to identify an event of interest. For example without limitation operation may include correlating monitored data from a plurality of data processing resources processing a workload to provide correlated data determining whether the correlated data exceeds a threshold and identifying the occurrence of an event of interest in response to a determination that the correlated data exceeds the threshold. An output may be provided in response to identifying the occurrence of an event of interest operation . For example operation may include providing the output to a workload manager or other user so that an appropriate action may be taken. The process may then continue with repeating operations and as long as event correlation for the workload continues to be desired.

Turning now to flowcharts of a process for workload overflow management are depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. For example without limitation the process of may be implemented in data processing environment using hybrid cloud integrator in and using event correlation service in . The process illustrated in is an example of workload overflow management in accordance with an illustrative embodiment in which a consumer workload may be processed in part on a consumer side of a hybrid cloud and in part on a provider side of the hybrid cloud.

Managing workload overflow in accordance with an illustrative embodiment may begin with setting up a hybrid cloud integrator with a cloud service broker and monitoring plug ins operation . The cloud service broker plug in may be configured and set up for integrating provisioning services on a consumer data processing system with provisioning services on the provider side of a hybrid cloud operation . The monitoring plug in may be set up and configured to establish hybrid cloud monitoring across data processing services on the provider side and on a consumer side of the hybrid cloud operation . Step may be implemented for example using the method illustrated in .

An event correlation service may be set up and configured operation . The event correlation service aggregates and correlates monitored data from the consumer data processing resources and services and the provider data processing resources and services that are processing the consumer workload. The event correlation service may be set up and configured for aggregating and correlating events that are specific to the workloads being processed. For example operation may include instantiating one or more instances of a number of event correlation software plug ins in the event correlation service. Instantiation of the various event correlation software instances may be accomplished via an application programming interface provided by an event correlation service software framework.

One or more workload overflow thresholds may be defined operation . The workload overflow thresholds may be defined based on a number of policies for operating a hybrid cloud to process the consumer workload. The workload overflow thresholds may be defined by workload specific parameters for a number of the event correlation software instances instantiated in operation . For example operation may include defining workload specific parameters for the number of event correlation software instances via the application programming interface provided by the event correlation service software framework.

A workload manager then may be set up and configured and processing of the workload may be started operation . The workload manager may initialize workload processing by provisioning and configuring sufficient resources and services on the consumer side of a hybrid cloud to meet the consumer s workload demand. In accordance with an illustrative embodiment the workload manager also may use the services and resources on the provider side of the hybrid cloud for workload processing. The distribution of the consumer s workload between the consumer side and the provider side of a hybrid cloud may be defined by a number of policies. The workload manager keeps track of the various portions of the consumer workload that are being processed on the consumer s data processing resources and on provider data processing resources. Operation may include making the workload manager aware that the event correlation service is correlating and aggregating monitored events from across the hybrid cloud as the workload is being processed.

Monitoring of the workload and correlation of detected events is started operation . As a workload is processed on the consumer s data processing resources and perhaps also on provider data processing resources the event correlation service may continuously aggregate and correlate detected events across multiple monitored resources. For example such event correlation and aggregation may be provided by the number of event correlation software instances in the event correlation service.

Based on event aggregation and correlation by the event correlation service it may be determined that a workload overflow threshold has been exceeded operation . For example operation may be performed by an event correlation software instance in the event correlation service using a workload overload threshold defined by the workload specific parameters for the event correlation software instance. In response to a determination that the workload overflow threshold has been exceeded a service request may be sent to the workload manager operation . The service request may provide information on the overflow situation including an indication of the severity or urgency of the situation or an expected trend. This information may be provided by the event correlation service based on an evaluation of detected events. For example the service request may be generated by the event correlation software instance detecting the overflow condition. The workload manager may receive the service request and send an acknowledgment operation . For example upon receiving the service request the workload manager may send a response to the event correlation service to indicate that the service request has been received.

The workload manager then may process the service request apply policies and determine the appropriate action to take in response to the overflow condition operation . Information technology administrators business decision makers and others responsible for managing the workload and business processes may set and change specific policies from time to time to best satisfy the needs of the business or other consumer of data processing resources. Based on the policies applied to the determined overflow condition the workload manager may determine that the appropriate response to the overflow condition is to process the workload overflow with provider services on the provider side of a hybrid cloud operation .

If it is decided at operation to process the workload overflow with provider services the workload manager may invoke the cloud service broker plug in in the hybrid cloud integrator for provisioning the required services on the provider resources operation . Workload specific services may need to be provisioned and configured and appropriate data made available for processing a portion of the consumer workload using provider data processing resources. Operation may be performed using the cloud service broker application programming interface. The cloud service broker plug in then may provision the required services for the workload overflow using the provider resources operation . Operation may include invoking by the cloud service broker the provider s service provisioning specific application programming interface to provision the desired service on the provider side of the hybrid cloud on behalf of the workload manager. When the appropriate service is provisioned a handle to the provisioned service on the provider data processing resources may be made available to the cloud service broker. The cloud service broker may return the handle to the provisioned services to the workload manager operation . The handle allows the workload manager to make use of the provisioned resources for workload processing. For example if the service provisioned by the cloud service broker is an infrastructure as a service a virtual machine instance may be created from a specified image and provisioned with the requested amount of processing units random access memory and disk capacity. The virtual machine instance may be assigned an instance identity number and a network address. Access to the service may be granted to a workload specific user. The cloud service broker passes this information to the workload manager.

The provisioned services may be configured to process an overflow portion of the consumer s workload on the provider resources operation . Operation may be performed by the workload manager and may include for example initializing the service by providing specific workload parameters providing access credentials setting up secure connectivity between the consumer s data processing resources services and data sources and the newly provisioned service on the provider data processing resources and making portions of the consumer s workload available for processing by the newly provisioned service. After configuring the provisioned services processing of the workload including the newly provisioned services may be started operation . For example the effect of operations through may be to shift processing of a portion of the consumer s workload from consumer data processing resources on the consumer side of a hybrid cloud to provider data processing resources on the provider side of the hybrid cloud in response to detecting an overflow condition on the consumer s data processing resources.

The workload manager may inform the event correlation service of the new topology for processing the workload including the new service instance. For example a handle for the newly provisioned service may be sent to the event correlation service operation . The handle allows the event correlation service to monitor workload processing on the newly provisioned service. The handle may provide information such as the service identity associated with the newly provisioned service so that the event correlation service can include that service as it aggregates monitored data and correlates events across the hybrid cloud. The workload manager may send the handle to the event correlation service as part of or along with a service fulfillment response indicating that the service request from the event correlation service has been processed and fulfilled.

Monitoring of the new service instance may be started and added to monitoring of the hybrid cloud by enabling a provider side monitoring gateway to receive monitored data from the new service instance operation . Establishing monitoring of a new service instance on the provider side of a hybrid cloud is described in more detail above with reference to . Monitored data from existing service instances and from the newly provisioned service instances may then be processed and events correlated across all service instances processing the consumer s workload operation with the process terminating thereafter. Operation may include monitoring data and correlating events across service instances on both the consumer side and the provider side of a hybrid cloud.

Returning to operation in response to determining that a workload overflow threshold has not been exceeded the process may continue determining whether a workload overflow threshold has been exceeded until a determination is made.

Returning to operation if a determination has been made not to process the workload overflow with provider services the process may return to operation to continue monitoring the workload and correlating the detected events.

Turning now to flowcharts of a process for workload underflow management are depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment. The process of may be implemented for example in data processing environment using hybrid cloud integrator in and event correlation service in . The process in is an example of workload underflow management in accordance with an illustrative embodiment in which a consumer workload may be processed in part on a consumer side of a hybrid cloud and in part on a provider side of the hybrid cloud.

Managing workload underflow in accordance with an illustrative embodiment may begin with setting up a hybrid cloud integrator with cloud service broker and monitoring plug ins as described above operation . The cloud service broker plug in may be configured and set up for integrating with provider services on the provider side of a hybrid cloud operation . The monitoring plug in may be set up and configured to establish hybrid cloud monitoring across data processing services on the provider side and on a consumer side of the hybrid cloud operation . Operation may be implemented for example using the process illustrated in .

An event correlation service may be set up and configured operation . The event correlation service aggregates and correlates monitored data from the consumer data processing resources and services and the provider data processing resources and services that are processing the consumer workload. The event correlation service may be set up and configured for aggregating and correlating events that are specific to the workloads being processed. For example operation may include instantiating one or more instances of a number of event correlation software plug ins in the event correlation service. Instantiation of the various event correlation software instances may be accomplished via an application programming interface provided by an event correlation service software framework.

One or more workload underflow thresholds may be defined operation . The workload underflow thresholds may be defined based on a number of policies for operating a hybrid cloud to process the consumer workload. The workload underflow thresholds may be defined by workload specific parameters for a number of the event correlation software instances instantiated in operation . For example operation may include defining workload specific parameters for the number of event correlation software instances via the application programming interface provided by the event correlation service software framework.

A workload manager may then be set up and configured and processing of the workload may be started operation . The workload manager may initialize workload processing by provisioning and configuring sufficient resources and services on the consumer side of a hybrid cloud to meet the consumer s workload demand. In accordance with an illustrative embodiment the workload manager also may use the services and resources on the provider side of the hybrid cloud for workload processing. The distribution of the consumer s workload between the consumer side and the provider side of a hybrid cloud may be defined by a number of policies. The workload manager keeps track of the various portions of the consumer workload that are being processed on the consumer s data processing resources and on provider data processing resources. Operation may include making the workload manager aware that the event correlation service is correlating and aggregating monitored events from across the hybrid cloud as the workload is being processed.

Monitoring of the workload and correlation of detected events is started operation . As a workload is processed on the consumer s data processing resources and perhaps also on provider data processing resources the event correlation service may continuously aggregate and correlate detected events across multiple monitored resources. For example such event correlation and aggregation may be provided by the number of event correlation software instances in the event correlation service.

Based on event aggregation and correlation by the event correlation service it may be determined that a workload underflow threshold has been reached operation . For example operation may be performed by an event correlation software instance in the event correlation service using a workload underflow threshold defined by workload specific parameters. In response to the determination that a workload underflow threshold has been reached a service request may be sent to the workload manager operation . The service request may provide information on the underflow situation including an indication of the degree of severity of the situation or an expected trend. This information may be provided by the event correlation service based on an evaluation of detected events. For example the service request may be generated by the event correlation service software instance detecting the underflow condition. The workload manager may receive the service request and send an acknowledgment operation . For example upon receiving the service request the workload manager may send a response to the event correlation service to indicate that the service request has been received.

The workload manager may then process the service request apply policies and determine the appropriate action to take in response to the underflow condition based on the applied policies operation . Information technology administrators business decision makers and others responsible for managing the workload and business processes may set and change specific policies from time to time to best satisfy the needs of the business or other consumer of data processing resources. Based on the policies applied to the determined underflow condition the workload manager may determine that the appropriate response to the underflow condition is to release provider services on the provider side of a hybrid cloud operation . Releasing of resources may be possible because the determination of an underflow condition indicates that at least some resources in the hybrid cloud may not be fully utilized. Releasing unneeded provider resources may eliminate ongoing costs associated with provider data processing services. In response to a determination that the appropriate response to the underflow condition is to release provider services the workload manager may move processing of a portion of the workload from the provider resources to be released and start processing more of the workload on other resources operation . For example operation may include moving processing of a portion of the consumer workload from the provider resources to be released to currently underutilized data processing resources on the consumer side of the hybrid cloud.

The workload manager may invoke the cloud service broker plug in in the hybrid cloud integrator for releasing a number of services on the provider resources operation . Operation may be performed using the cloud service broker application programming interface. The cloud service broker plug in may then release the unused services on the provider resources resulting from the workload underflow condition operation . Operation may include the cloud service broker invoking the provider s service provisioning specific application programming interface to release the desired service on the provider side of the hybrid cloud on behalf of the workload manager.

When a provider side service is released the handle to the released service on the provider data processing resources may be removed from the workload manager operation . For example the cloud service broker may send a notification to the workload manager indicating the release of the specific service on the provider side of the hybrid cloud. In turn the workload manager may send a service fulfillment response to the event correlation service indicating completion of the transaction that was initiated by the event correlation service with the notification of the underflow condition. Removing the handle from the workload manager prevents the workload manager from attempting to use the released service for processing of the consumer workload.

The workload manager may inform the event correlation service of the new topology for processing the workload. For example a handle for the newly released service also may be removed from the event correlation service operation . Removing the handle from the event correlation service prevents the event correlation service from attempting to detect events in the released service. Detecting events in a released service instance may be disabled by disabling the receiving of monitored data from the released service instance by a provider side monitoring gateway operation . Stopping monitoring of a service instance on the provider side of a hybrid cloud is described in more detail above with reference to . Monitored data from remaining service instances across the hybrid cloud may continue to be processed and events correlated across all service instances processing the consumer s workload operation with the process terminating thereafter. Operation may include monitoring data and correlating events across service instances on both the consumer side and the provider side of a hybrid cloud.

Hybrid cloud integration in accordance with an illustrative embodiment provides a well defined method and apparatus for integrating on premise infrastructure platform applications and data with off premise cloud based infrastructure platform services and data. A hybrid cloud integrator in accordance with an illustrative embodiment provides a structured framework of interfaces for hybrid cloud service configuration and deployment of service plug ins. Using these interfaces and application programming interfaces hybrid cloud service plug ins may be defined configured and deployed to create integrated hybrid cloud services.

Hybrid cloud integration in accordance with an illustrative embodiment may be used to provide integration capabilities across a hybrid cloud comprising any combination of data processing resources. In one example described in detail herein a hybrid cloud integrator in accordance with an illustrative embodiment may be used to provide integration across a hybrid cloud comprising a consumer s private cloud and a provider s pubic cloud. However hybrid cloud integration in accordance with an illustrative embodiment may be used to provide integration capabilities for various other types of hybrid clouds. For example a hybrid cloud integrator in accordance with an illustrative embodiment may be used to provide integration across a hybrid cloud comprising multiple private clouds. As another example a hybrid cloud integrator in accordance with an illustrative embodiment may be used to provide integration across a hybrid cloud comprising multiple public clouds.

Each line of business within a single enterprise may have its own data processing resources implemented as a private cloud. Each such private cloud may have its own point of delivery and point of control. Multiple private clouds of this type may be integrated into a single hybrid cloud and made available to a consumer of data processing resources within the enterprise. A hybrid cloud integrator in accordance with an illustrative embodiment may be used to provide integration across such a hybrid cloud. A hybrid cloud formed by integrating private cloud services across multiple private clouds using a hybrid cloud integrator in accordance with an illustrative embodiment allows a consumer of resources of one private cloud to consume from the consumer s point of delivery resources and services made available on another private cloud. The hybrid cloud integrator may be configured to allow administrators of each private cloud to manage their clouds from their respective points of control. Hybrid cloud integrator plug in services in accordance with an illustrative embodiment may be configured to allow the consumer of data processing resources to enforce the same security monitoring and governance requirements on the consumer s data processing operations performed across the hybrid cloud wherever the consumer s workload is being processed. Thus using a hybrid cloud integrator in accordance with an illustrative embodiment workload management may be achieved in a hybrid cloud formed across multiple private clouds.

As another example hybrid cloud integration in accordance with an illustrative embodiment may be used to integrate across a hybrid cloud between two or more public clouds. In this case use of a hybrid cloud integrator in accordance with an illustrative embodiment allows a consumer of data processing resources of one public cloud to perform and control consumer data processing operations by coordinating and consuming resources and services from multiple public clouds using a single point of delivery and point of control. Plug in components in the hybrid cloud integrator may be configured to allow the consumer to enforce the same security monitoring and governance requirements on the consumer s data processing operations performed across the hybrid cloud wherever the consumer s workload is being processed. Thus using a hybrid cloud integrator in accordance with an illustrative embodiment workload management may be achieved in a hybrid cloud formed across multiple public clouds.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

