---

title: System and method for generating a lighting plan
abstract: A system and method for enabling users to generate a lighting plan is disclosed. A particular embodiment includes obtaining map data from a mapping source, the map data enabling generation of a map at a location of interest; obtaining lamp data, the lamp data including lamp specification data including parameters corresponding to attributes of lamps of a plurality of lamps; using a data processor to provide a user interface with which a user can perform a graphical drag-and-drop operation to select a first lamp from among the plurality of lamps and position the first lamp in a position on the map; and generating a lighting plan based on the attributes and position of the first lamp.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09400856&OS=09400856&RS=09400856
owner: 
number: 09400856
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120516
---
This patent application relates to computer implemented software systems according to one embodiment and more specifically to using an electronic system for generating a lighting plan.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. The following notice applies to the software and data as described below and in the drawings that form a part of this document Copyright 2011 2012 Marc Striegel All Rights Reserved.

It is often necessary for lighting specialists building contractors architects designers and the like to determine how to provide lighting for a particular location whether the location is an exterior or interior location. For example a designer may need to determine how to light a new parking lot. Traditionally the designer would visit the location walk the perimeter hand draw the location and hand mark the locations where the designer would suggest that lighting elements be installed in the parking lot location. Unfortunately these hand drawings are not accurate are not easily conveyed to others and do not include detailed costing information necessary for an informative estimate or proposal. Typically the designer would have to take the hand drawn map back to an office and apply the details of the particular lighting elements to generate a rough cost estimate. These traditional methods of developing lighting plans and estimates proposals are inaccurate time consuming and inefficient.

In various example embodiments a system and method for enabling users to generate a lighting plan is disclosed. The system provides a tool for the lighting industry contractors builders architects designers and the like for mapping a region with lighting elements developing a lighting plan and delivering real time quotes from the field electronically on tablets laptops or personal computers PCs . The process of creating a single quote or multiple quotes is radically streamlined allowing for quote turnaround in minutes instead of hours or days. In one embodiment the hand held quoting tool supports quick and easy lot dimensioning with a drag and drop inventory selection interface. The tool can produce a printable and editable lot lighting map and plan for review and revision. Front line salespeople can use the tool to seamlessly link to their sales system and product inventory online. The various embodiments described herein can replace traditional methods of drawing maps and doing energy audits of a client s current state by hand and writing estimates and proposals on clipboards.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. It will be evident however to one of ordinary skill in the art that the various embodiments may be practiced without these specific details.

In the various embodiments described herein a system and method for enabling users to generate a lighting plan is disclosed. In various embodiments a software application program is used to enable the development of a lighting plan or proposal and to simulate the effects of the lighting plan or proposal on the display screen of a computer system. As described in more detail below the computer or computing system on which the described embodiments can be implemented can include personal computers PCs portable computing devices laptops tablet computers personal digital assistants PDAs personal communication devices e.g. cellular telephones smartphones or other wireless devices network computers set top boxes consumer electronic devices or any other type of computing data processing communication networking or electronic system.

Referring now to in an example embodiment a system for enabling users to design and simulate a lighting plan or proposal is disclosed. In various example embodiments an application or service typically provided by or operating on a host site e.g. a website is provided to simplify and facilitate the downloading or hosted use of the lighting plan development system of an example embodiment. In a particular embodiment the lighting plan development system can be downloaded from the host site by a user at a user platform . Alternatively the lighting plan development system can be hosted by the host site for a networked user at a user platform . The details of the lighting plan development system for an example embodiment are provided below.

Referring again to the lighting plan development system can be in network communication with a plurality of lighting plan data sources . The lighting plan data sources can include lamp simulation data sources such as a lamp or lighting element manufacturer or others that creates lamp simulations and uploads the data corresponding to these lamp simulations lamp simulation data set to the host site . The lighting plan data sources can also include sources of lamp inventory data sets which include lamp specifications for particular brands or types of specific lamps or lighting elements. The lamp inventory data sets might be provided by a lamp manufacturer distributor or seller who uploads a spreadsheet of lamp inventory data to the host site . The spreadsheet of lamp inventory data can include a set of parameters associated with various attributes of each specific type of lamp. In a particular embodiment uploading a spreadsheet of lamp inventory data can cause the lighting plan development system on the host site to automatically construct simulations for the uploaded lamp specifications based on all the information the lighting plan development system has in its database . The data retained by database is detailed below. If the lighting plan development system is able to find a previously developed specially made simulation created by for example the lamp manufacturer by matching the lamp product identifier ID in the inventory spreadsheet to a product ID uploaded along with the simulation by the manufacturer then the manufacturer simulation can be associated with the particular lamp product and used by the lighting plan development system to simulate the lamp product. If the lighting plan development system cannot find any such matches of previously developed lamp simulations the lighting plan development system can automatically construct a lamp simulation based on the lamp specifications which can include the name of the lamp and perhaps a set of parameters associated with various attributes of the specific type of lamp. The lighting plan development system can use this information to create a decent simulation for the particular type of lamp. In some cases the automatically constructed simulations can be good enough to enable a user to design a lighting plan or proposal. Additionally the user can modify a previously developed simulation or an automatically constructed simulation to improve the accuracy of the simulation. Once the user uploads modified simulations to host site then the next time the user uploads a lamp inventory that contains that particular lamp such as the user might do for another lighting plan that uses a different set of lamps that includes some but not all previously used lamps then the lighting plan development system can subsequently use the modified simulation and thereby provide better results for the lamp inventory upload as time goes on. The lighting plan data sources can also include sources of maps or mapping data used for generated an initial map of a region of interest a region in which lighting elements will be placed as part of the lighting plan or proposal. In one embodiment Google Maps can be used as a source of mapping data. Given an address or geo coordinates the source of the mapping data can provide a graphical image or photographic image of the corresponding geographical location which can be imported into and used by the lighting plan development system . In one embodiment a client device can include a global positioning system GPS receiver for automatically receiving geo coordinates corresponding to a current location of the client device . These automatically received geo coordinates can be used to obtain the mapping data in the manner described above.

One or more of the lighting plan data sources can be provided by one or more third party providers operating at various locations in a network ecosystem. It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that lighting plan data sources can be any of a variety of networked third party providers as described in more detail below. In a particular embodiment a source list maintained at the host site can be used as a summary or list of all lighting plan data sources which users or the host site may visit access and from which users or the host site can obtain lamp data. The host site lighting plan data sources and user platforms may communicate and transfer data and information in the data network ecosystem shown in via a wide area data network e.g. the Internet . Various components of the host site can also communicate internally via a conventional intranet or local area network LAN .

Networks and are configured to couple one computing device with another computing device. Networks and may be enabled to employ any form of computer readable media for communicating information from one electronic device to another. Network can include the Internet in addition to LAN wide area networks WANs direct connections such as through a universal serial bus USB port other forms of computer readable media or any combination thereof. On an interconnected set of LANs including those based on differing architectures and protocols a router and or gateway device acts as a link between LANs enabling messages to be sent between computing devices. Also communication links within LANs typically include twisted wire pair or coaxial cable while communication links between networks may utilize analog telephone lines full or fractional dedicated digital lines including T1 T2 T3 and T4 Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDNs Digital Subscriber Lines DSLs wireless links including satellite links or other communication links known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore remote computers and other related electronic devices can be remotely connected to either LANs or WANs via a wireless link WiFi Bluetooth satellite or modem and temporary telephone link.

Networks and may further include any of a variety of wireless sub networks that may further overlay stand alone ad hoc networks and the like to provide an infrastructure oriented connection. Such sub networks may include mesh networks Wireless LAN WLAN networks cellular networks and the like. Networks and may also include an autonomous system of terminals gateways routers and the like connected by wireless radio links or wireless transceivers. These connectors may be configured to move freely and randomly and organize themselves arbitrarily such that the topology of networks and may change rapidly and arbitrarily.

Networks and may further employ a plurality of access technologies including 2nd 2G 2.5 3rd 3G 4th 4G generation radio access for cellular systems WLAN Wireless Router WR mesh and the like. Access technologies such as 2G 3G 4G and future access networks may enable wide area coverage for mobile devices such as one or more of client devices with various degrees of mobility. For example networks and may enable a radio connection through a radio network access such as Global System for Mobile communication GSM General Packet Radio Services GPRS Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA CDMA2000 and the like. Networks and may also be constructed for use with various other wired and wireless communication protocols including TCP IP UDP SIP SMS RTP WAP CDMA TDMA EDGE UMTS GPRS GSM UWB WiFi WiMax IEEE 802.11x and the like. In essence networks and may include virtually any wired and or wireless communication mechanisms by which information may travel between one computing device and another computing device network and the like. In one embodiment network may represent a LAN that is configured behind a firewall not shown within a business data center for example.

The lighting plan data sources may include any of a variety of providers of network transportable digital data. The network transportable digital data can be transported in any of a family of file formats and associated mechanisms usable to enable a host site and a user platform to receive data from a lamp data source over a network . In one embodiment the file format can be a MICROSOFT Excel spreadsheet format or a CSV Comma Separated Values format however the various embodiments are not so limited and other file formats and transport protocols may be used. For example data formats other than Excel or CSV or formats other than open standard formats can be supported by various embodiments. Any electronic file format such as Microsoft Access Database Format MDB Portable Document Format PDF audio e.g. Motion Picture Experts Group Audio Layer 3 MP3 and the like video e.g. MP4 and the like and any proprietary interchange format defined by specific sites can be supported by the various embodiments described herein. Moreover a lamp data source may provide more than one lamp data set and or more than one lamp simulation data set.

In a particular embodiment a user platform with one or more client devices enables a user to access data and simulations from the lighting plan development system via the host and network . Client devices may include virtually any computing device that is configured to send and receive information over a network such as network . Such client devices may include portable devices such as cellular telephones smart phones display pagers radio frequency RF devices infrared IR devices global positioning devices GPS Personal Digital Assistants PDAs handheld computers wearable computers tablet computers integrated devices combining one or more of the preceding devices and the like. Client devices may also include other computing devices such as personal computers multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PC s and the like. Client devices may also include other processing devices such as consumer electronic CE devices and or mobile computing devices which are known to those of ordinary skill in the art. As such client devices may range widely in terms of capabilities and features. For example a client device configured as a cell phone may have a numeric keypad and a few lines of monochrome LCD display on which only text may be displayed. In another example a web enabled client device may have a touch sensitive screen a stylus and several lines of color LCD display in which both text and graphics may be displayed. Moreover the web enabled client device may include a browser application enabled to receive and to send wireless application protocol messages WAP and or wired application messages and the like. In one embodiment the browser application is enabled to employ HyperText Markup Language HTML Dynamic HTML Handheld Device Markup Language HDML Wireless Markup Language WML WMLScript JavaScript EXtensible HTML xHTML Compact HTML CHTML and the like to display and or send digital information. In other embodiments mobile devices can be configured with applications apps with which the functionality described herein can be implemented.

Client devices may also include at least one client application that is configured to receive mapping or lamp data or or control data from another computing device via a wired or wireless network transmission. The client application may include a capability to provide and receive textual data graphical data video data audio data and the like. Moreover client devices may be further configured to communicate and or receive a message such as through a Short Message Service SMS direct messaging e.g. Twitter email Multimedia Message Service MMS instant messaging IM internet relay chat IRC mIRC Jabber Enhanced Messaging Service EMS text messaging Smart Messaging Over the Air OTA messaging or the like between another computing device and the like.

Referring again to the lighting plan development system for an example embodiment is shown to include a lighting plan system database . Referring now to the components of database are illustrated for an example embodiment. Each of these database components is described in detail below.

Lamp Simulation Database A user can save a simulation of an individual lamp to the host site so other users can browse and download the saved lamp simulation. These lamp simulations which are collections of simulation parameters and simulation programs can be automatically created by the lighting plan development system from lamp specification data or they can be created by the user by editing simulation parameters through a graphical user interface. For example the simulation parameters might include the color of the light emitted by the lamp the illumination pattern the light intensity profile over the illuminated area the effects of weather conditions and the like. The lamp simulations can be stored in Lamp Simulation Database . Additionally some lamp manufacturers may have already spent time creating simulations of their lamp inventory. These already created lamp simulations can be uploaded to the lighting plan development system from the lighting plan data sources . These uploaded simulations and the simulations automatically created by the lighting plan development system can be stored in Lamp Simulation Database .

Lamp Specification Database Entering lamp specification data one by one for all of an inventory of thousands of lamp varieties can be tedious work for users. Many users prefer to upload a spreadsheet of lamp specification data for their inventory of lamps and to have the lighting plan development system automatically create plans and simulations according to the lamp specification data in the database . When a user uploads a lamp inventory spreadsheet to host site the lighting plan development system can store the lamp inventory data into database . The lighting plan development system can then use the uploaded lamp inventory data to automatically construct a related lighting plan or lamp simulation. The data for the constructed simulation can be stored in the database . If a user doesn t like the constructed simulation the user can modify the simulation and upload the modified simulation to the lighting plan development system . The uploaded modified simulation is stored in the database . The lighting plan development system can then use this uploaded modified simulation to do a better job of constructing a simulation for a lamp with the same lamp specification in the future for this user who might upload a lamp inventory spreadsheet again for another lighting plan or an entirely different user.

Lamp Metadata Database This database can be used for storage of reviews comments digital rights information etc. for the lamp simulations stored in database .

Lighting Plan Database This database can be used for storage of lighting plan data and portions of lighting plans that users have created and saved to the host site which other users can access subject to access privileges. In a particular embodiment users in a workgroup are able to share lighting plans over the network privately within the workgroup for example.

Lighting Plan Metadata Database This database can be used for storage of reviews comments digital rights information etc. for the lighting plans stored in database .

User Database This database can be used for storage of user account information user profiles user privileges etc.

Referring again to host site of an example embodiment is shown to include a lighting plan development system . Lighting plan development system includes lighting plan data importer user account management module user download management module hosted application management module user interface management module lighting plan data exporter module and lamp feedback collection module . Each of these modules can be implemented as software components executing within an executable environment of lighting plan development system operating on host site or user platform . Each of these modules of an example embodiment is described in more detail below in connection with the figures provided herein.

Referring to the lighting plan development system can include a lighting plan data importer . The lighting plan data importer receives uploaded lamp inventory specification data sets and lamp simulation data sets from the data sources and stores the received data in the appropriate portion of database such as Lamp Simulation Database and Lamp Specification Database . The lighting plan data importer also receives mapping data from map data sources .

Referring now to a detail of the lighting plan data importer in an example embodiment is illustrated. As shown lighting plan data importer is in data communication via network with a plurality of lighting plan data sources one or more portions of database and the other processing modules of the lighting plan development system not shown in . In general the lighting plan data importer is responsible for collecting and processing lamp or lighting element data items e.g. lamp simulations and lamp inventory specifications received from a variety of lighting plan data sources . In a particular embodiment these lighting plan data sources can include individual or aggregated data sources as described above. Aggregated data sources can represent any of a variety of conventional sites or services that pull or receive lamp data items from various sources and collect the lamp data items in a local collector e.g. a lamp distributor or reseller . The local collector of a lamp data source may then provide these lamp data items to host site via the wide area data network .

Lighting plan data importer can be configured to interface with any of the lighting plan data sources via wide area data network . Because of the variety of lighting plan data sources providing data to lighting plan data importer the lighting plan data importer needs to manage the interface to the various lighting plan data sources . This data source interlace or data management process performed by lighting plan data importer can include retaining meta information on each data item document or object received from a lamp data source . This retained meta information can include an identifier or address of the corresponding data item document or object received from a lamp data source an identifier or address of the corresponding lamp data source the timing or versioning associated with the data item document or object including the time when the latest update of an item was received and the like. This meta information related to the data items documents or objects received from lighting plan data sources can be stored in database .

The lighting plan data importer also receives mapping data from map data sources . The mapping data can be used for generating an initial map of a region of interest a region in which lighting elements will be placed as part of the lighting plan or proposal. In one embodiment Google Maps can be used as a source of mapping data. Given an address or geo coordinates the source of the mapping data can provide a graphical image or photographic image of the corresponding geographical location which can be imported into and used by the lighting plan development system .

The data management process performed by lighting plan data importer can also include performing any transcoding decompression decryption formatting and or the like that may be necessary to process and or simulate a particular data item received from a lamp data source via host site . The data management process performed by lighting plan data importer can also include the fetching staging and processing of particular lamp data items as users of lighting plan data sources use the lighting plan data importer as described herein.

Referring again to the lighting plan development system also includes user account management module user download management module hosted application management module user interface management module lighting plan data exporter module and lamp feedback collection module . Each of these modules is described in more detail next. The user account management module provides the functionality and interfaces for a user to register with the host site and create modify and manage a user account and related user information data sets. As part of the creation of a user information data set a user can assign a unique identifier also denoted a user identifier or user ID to the user information data set. Alternatively the user account management module can automatically create and assign the user ID to the user information data set. In one embodiment the user ID can be a unique eight digit number. In an alternative embodiment the user ID can be an alphanumeric string of arbitrary length which can be used to uniquely identify a particular user information data set and corresponding user. The user information data sets can be stored in user database .

Once the user ID is created using any of the embodiments described above the user ID can be used by a user to access and configure user specific information in a user information data set retained on host site in a conventional manner. In a particular embodiment a user profile can be created and maintained in user database . Additionally other user data for particular users can be maintained by user account management module . This other user data can include a user history a user rating and the like. It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that other user information may similarly be configured and retained in user data by the user account management module . Thus for various embodiments a user can register with the host site and use host site and the user account management module therein to create and maintain a user information data set and a corresponding unique user ID.

Referring again to the lighting plan development system of an example embodiment is shown to include a user download management module and a hosted application management module . As one option the lighting plan development system or a portion thereof can be downloaded to a user device of user platform and executed locally on a user device . The downloading of the lighting plan development system application can be accomplished using conventional software downloading functionality. As a second option the lighting plan development system can be hosted by the host site and executed remotely from the user s perspective on host system . In one embodiment the lighting plan development system can be implemented as a service in a service oriented architecture SOA . In any case the functionality performed by the lighting plan development system is as described herein whether the application is executed locally or remotely relative to the user.

Referring again to the lighting plan development system of an example embodiment is shown to include a user interface management module . The user interface management module handles the presentation of various user interface displays display screens windows frames or the like. In an alternative embodiment the user interface can be implemented as a series of web pages. In another alternative embodiment the user interface can be implemented as a series display screens on a mobile device as implemented by a mobile application or app. In yet another alternative embodiment the user interface can be implemented as a series of voice command responses implemented using conventional voice recognition and voice synthesis technology on a mobile device as implemented by a mobile application or app. These various user interface displays are provided to present information and lighting plan images to a user of the lighting plan development system of an example embodiment. The user interface management module also receives user inputs and configures the various user interface displays in conformity with the user inputs command selections and the like.

Although the various user interface displays provided by the user interface management module are nearly infinitely varied several sample user interface sequences are provided herein and in the corresponding figures to describe various features of the disclosed embodiments. These sample user interface displays and sequences are described below.

In one embodiment a lighting plan or proposal data exporter module and a lighting plan feedback collection module are provided. The lighting plan or proposal data exporter module handles the exporting of lighting plans or proposals data to external systems including networked systems. The lighting plan or proposal data exporter module can also control the export of scripts spreadsheets and other data sets created or modified by the lighting plan development system of an example embodiment.

The lighting plan feedback collection module can collect information from 3party users the collected information including rating information comments customer feedback and the like that indicate the extent to which particular viewers liked or disliked a particular lighting plan or proposal. The collected feedback can be correlated to the particular lighting plan or proposal to which the feedback relates.

Referring now to a detail of the lighting plan development system of an example embodiment from a user perspective is illustrated. As described above the lighting plan development system can be downloaded to a user device of user platform or executed on host system . The lighting plan development system may communicate and transfer data and information in the network ecosystem via a wide area data network e.g. the Internet . In this manner the lighting plan development system may communicate and transfer data and information with a user of a user device of user platform . In general the user can interact with the lighting plan development system via a graphical user interface GUI implemented in an example embodiment as a set of webpages or application display screens described in more detail below.

In one embodiment the lighting plan development system can run over a network. However other embodiments can run the lighting plan development system as a stand alone client resident program. illustrate a networked implementation of the lighting plan development system of various embodiments. illustrates a stand alone client resident program implementation of the lighting plan development system of a particular embodiment. For the networked implementation of the lighting plan development system network connectivity may be required for the on line features of various embodiments. However the development and operation of a lighting plan or proposal on a stand alone system can also be beneficial where network connectivity may not be available or convenient.

Referring now to a stand alone client resident program implementation of the lighting plan development system of a particular embodiment is illustrated. In this embodiment the lighting plan development system can be downloaded to or installed on a user platform . The functionality of the lighting plan development system as described herein can be executed directly on the client machine of the user platform . The database can also be locally accessible to the user platform and the lighting plan development system executing thereon. In other respects the hosted version or user platform installed version of the lighting plan development system can operate in the manner described herein.

Referring now to several sample user interface screen snapshots and sequences are illustrated. These sample user interface sequences illustrate various features structures and operations of various example embodiments. Referring to for each these sample user interface sequences a user interface screen window or display image is presented on a user client device . The user interface typically includes a set of information and command options for selection by a user. Each of these user interface screens shown in are described next as part of the generation of a sample lighting plan and proposal by the lighting plan development system of an example embodiment.

Referring now to the sample user interface screen illustrates the result after a user has launched the lighting plan development system of an example embodiment. As shown the user is initially presented with a list of previously generated lighting plans or mapped regions. In the particular sample embodiment the list elements are denoted as Properties . Each list element e.g. property represents a geographic location that has been previously mapped. As such for each list element the lighting plan data importer has previously imported map data from a map source and created a map corresponding to the particular list element location. Any of these previously mapped locations can be selected by the user by use of a conventional pointing device gesture keyboard key entry voice command or other method of indicating a selection to an electronic device. Alternatively the user can choose to create a new location map by selecting or activating the Add Property button as shown in . As a result of selecting the Add Property button the user is prompted to enter an address or geographic location which is used to fetch and import corresponding map data from a map source and create a map corresponding to the particular entered location. The user interface screen shown in can be used to create a data set corresponding to a new property or to edit a data set corresponding to an existing property. Once the user has selected an existing or newly created property the user interface screen such as the one shown in is displayed.

Referring now to the user has selected an existing or newly created property and the map corresponding to the selected property is displayed in the sample user interface screen . In the sample user interface screen shown in the map corresponding to a selected property is displayed in an upper left portion of the user interface screen . A lower portion denoted a command bar of the screen is used to display a set of command options for navigating through the lighting plan development system . An upper right portion denoted a light fixture information block of the screen is used to display a set of specifications associated with a selected lamp or lighting element.

Referring again to the sample user interface screen shown in also illustrates an overlay region that has been drawn on the map by the user by use of the drawing tool set . The overlay region allows a user to specify a particular area in a mapped location that represents an area or region of interest. The region of interest corresponds to the area in which the user wishes to place lighting elements as part of a lighting plan. As described below the placement of lighting elements on the map is performed using a drag and drop operation provided by the various embodiments described herein. The drag and drop operation for an example embodiment is shown in .

Referring now to the drag and drop operation for the placement of lighting elements on the map in an example embodiment is shown. In the drawing tool set includes a button for adding a lighting element to the map . The user can activate the button by using any of the conventional selection techniques described above. Once the button for adding a lighting element activated the user can move the cursor anywhere on the map . When the user positions the cursor in the desired location on the map the user can drop a lighting element at that location by use of any of the conventional selection techniques described above. For example the user can position the cursor in the desired location on the map and activate a mouse button to drop a lighting element at that location. A result of this operation is shown in . As shown a new lighting element has been dropped on map at a desired location. Similarly additional lighting elements can be dropped at a plurality of desired locations on map . In this manner a user can populate a particular region of interest with an array of lighting elements at desired locations appropriate for the location. Using the map positioned underneath overlay region the user can accurately position each lighting element at the appropriate location. As shown in an embodiment also provides an option for replacing the map with a photograph of the selected location. In this way the user can see the exact location of each lighting element relative to the photographic image of the location. In one embodiment Google Maps can be used to obtain the photographic image of the selected location. A map button can be used to select the photographic image option. Using either the map option or the photographic image option the user can accurately position each lighting element at the appropriate location. In one embodiment a client device can include a global positioning system GPS receiver for automatically receiving geo coordinates corresponding to a current location of the client device . These automatically receiving geo coordinates can be used to associate a geographical position with a particular lighting element. For example a user can walk to a particular location in the region of interest with a GPS equipped client device in hand. The particular location can be a location of a current lighting element or a position where the user wants to position a new lighting element. Upon arriving at the desired location the user can activate a GPS button provided by the user interface. As a result of activation of the GPS button the lighting plan development system can automatically fetch the geo coordinates at the desired location using the GPS receiver of the client device and associate the geo coordinates with an existing lighting element or a new lighting element. In yet another embodiment the user can manually enter a set of geo coordinates to associate the manually entered geo coordinates with an existing lighting element or a new lighting element.

Additionally the user can also specify the particular type of lighting element to be placed at each specified position on the map . As described above the user can select any of the lighting elements on the map by use of any of the conventional selection techniques described above. Once selected the specifications of the selected lighting element can be viewed and or modified by the user via the light fixture information block . An example of this functionality is shown in relative to lighting element . Using the light fixture information block the user can specify the type of lighting element the wattage the height the bulb type the number bulbs and the part number of the desired lighting element. In this manner the user can specify the characteristics specifications of each lighting element in a particular lighting plan. In another embodiment a user can select a particular lamp type from a graphical inventory of individual drag drop lamp types displayed in user interface . The graphical inventory of individual drag drop lamp types can be displayed as separate graphical icons for each selectable type of lighting element. A graphical icon corresponding to a desired lamp type can be dragged to a location on the map using the mouse or cursor control device. In a particular embodiment the location to which the graphical icon of the selected lamp type is dragged represents the physical location where a lamp would be installed at the actual geographical location corresponding to the region of interest. In this manner a user can manipulate a pointing device e.g. a computer mouse to visually drag a lamp icon from a graphical inventory to the map . represent a resulting sample user interface screen after a user has selected particular lamp types from the inventory of individual drag drop lamp types and dragged an icon of the selected lamp type to a location on map .

Once a user employs the graphical drag and drop operation to add one or more selected lamps onto the map as described above an embodiment can save the lighting element locations and specifications in a lighting plan. The processing of the lighting plan can include correlating the location of a lighting element on map to a physical location at the region of interest. In this manner the lighting plan can define the proposed geographical locations of each of the lighting elements and the specifications for each of the lighting elements as defined by a user of the lighting plan development system .

Referring to a user can view and or modify a set of currently specified lamp types that are included in a current lighting plan. In these sample user interface screens the user can view and or modify a current set of lamp types and a suggested set of replacement lamp types. In this manner the user retains specific control over each attribute of each lighting element included in a particular lighting plan.

Referring to the lighting plan development system of an example embodiment can generate a lighting plan that conforms to one of several user selectable modes including current greenest brightest cheapest short term and cheapest long term. The Current mode signals to the lighting plan development system that the user is interested in generating a lighting plan that simply uses the lighting element positions and lighting element types as specified by the user in the manner described above. The Greenest mode signals to the lighting plan development system that the user is interested in generating a lighting plan that uses the lighting element positions as specified by the user in the manner described above. However this mode also enables the lighting plan development system to automatically substitute the lighting element types specified by the user with lighting elements that will produce the greenest lighting plan e.g. a plan that produces the minimal carbon or waste footprint . The Brightest mode signals to the lighting plan development system that the user is interested in generating a lighting plan that uses the lighting element positions as specified by the user in the manner described above. However this mode also enables the lighting plan development system to automatically substitute the lighting element types specified by the user with lighting elements that will produce the brightest lighting plan e.g. a plan that produces the most light in the region of interest . The Cheapest Short Term mode signals to the lighting plan development system that the user is interested in generating a lighting plan that uses the lighting element positions as specified by the user in the manner described above. However this mode also enables the lighting plan development system to automatically substitute the lighting element types specified by the user with lighting elements that will produce the cheapest short term lighting plan e.g. a plan that uses the least expensive lighting elements without regard for the long term cost effects . The Cheapest Long Term mode signals to the lighting plan development system that the user is interested in generating a lighting plan that uses the lighting element positions as specified by the user in the manner described above. However this mode also enables the lighting plan development system to automatically substitute the lighting element types specified by the user with lighting elements that will produce the cheapest long term lighting plan e.g. a plan that uses minimally expensive lighting elements with consideration of the long term cost effects . It will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that the lighting plan development system of a particular embodiment can include other modes for specifically configuring a particular lighting plan. In this manner the lighting plan development system can assist the user implement a lighting plan according to a particular strategy by automatically selecting the types of lighting elements that fit the particular strategy selected by the user.

An embodiment includes a feature for exporting a dataset e.g. lamp specifications locations and map data that can be used to define a complete lighting plan meaning both the inventory of lamps used in the plan and the placement of the lamps in a mapped location. The content of this lighting plan can include a map and an imported lamp inventory. The imported lamp inventory can be stored in the database . The generated lighting plan can also be stored in the database . Alternatively the data can be stored in a combined form.

Referring to an example portion of a lighting plan proposal or spreadsheet produced by the lighting plan development system of an example embodiment is shown. The spreadsheet portion of the lighting plan proposal can be exported from the lighting plan development system by the lighting plan data exporter . The rows in the spreadsheet represent each of the lighting elements in a particular lighting plan. The columns in this spreadsheet example represent each of a variety of attributes corresponding to each of the lighting elements in the particular lighting plan. The automatically generated lighting plan proposal can be readily posted emailed or otherwise electronically communicated to various recipients.

In the manner described above lighting patterns can be automatically generated for each of the lighting elements specified by a user or automatically determined by the lighting plan development system as described above. The lighting patterns correspond to a simulation of the operation of particular lighting elements. Once the lighting patterns are automatically generated for each lighting element and projected on the overlay area the lighting plan development system can automatically determine if the overlay area and thus the corresponding regions of interest is fully covered by the lighting elements selected by the user. If there are portions of the region of interest not covered by the user selected lighting elements the lighting plan development system can automatically 1 move the positions of the lighting elements to maximize coverage and or 2 substitute different types of lighting elements for the user selected lighting elements to maximize coverage of the region of interest. In this manner the lighting plan development system can use the simulations of the lighting elements as indicated via the lighting patterns to assist the user in defining a lighting plan that best suits a particular region of interest.

Referring now to another example embodiment of a networked system in which various embodiments may operate is illustrated. In the embodiment illustrated the host site is shown to include the lighting plan development system . The lighting plan development system is shown to include the functional components as described above. In a particular embodiment the host site may also include a web server having a web interface with which users may interact with the host site via a user interface or web interface. The host site may also include an application programming interface API with which the host site may interact with other network entities on a programmatic or automated data transfer level. The API and web interface may be configured to interact with the lighting plan development system either directly or via an interface . The lighting plan development system may be configured to access a data storage device either directly or via the interface .

Referring now to a processing flow diagram illustrates an example embodiment of a lighting plan development system as described herein. The method of an example embodiment includes obtaining map data from a mapping source the map data enabling generation of a map at a location of interest processing block obtaining lamp data the lamp data including lamp specification data including parameters corresponding to attributes of lamps of a plurality of lamps processing block using a data processor to provide a user interface with which a user can perform a graphical drag and drop operation to select a first lamp from among the plurality of lamps and position the first lamp in a position on the map processing block and generating a lighting plan based on the attributes and position of the first lamp processing block .

Referring now to a processing flow diagram illustrates an example embodiment of an overall use case for a lighting plan development system as described herein. The method of an example embodiment includes enabling the user to log in processing block enabling the user to create a new property processing block enabling the user to add perimeter boundaries processing block enabling the user to add exterior and or interior lamp data processing blocks and enabling the user to select a replacement option processing block the system generates a lighting plan proposal and emails or otherwise communicates the proposal to selected recipients processing block and the system can export lighting plan proposal data to third parties processing block .

Referring now to a processing flow diagram illustrates an example embodiment of a use case for creating a perimeter in a lighting plan development system as described herein. The method of an example embodiment includes the system displays a map processing block enabling the user to select a perimeter marker tool processing block enabling the user to tap or click the map for each perimeter corner processing block enabling the user to tap or click the map at a first perimeter corner to close the region processing block the perimeter boundaries are automatically created between perimeter corners and the region is thereby defined processing block and enabling the user to tap or click on an existing perimeter corner to move or delete a perimeter corner processing block .

Referring now to a processing flow diagram illustrates an example embodiment of a use case for adding an exterior lamp in a lighting plan development system as described herein. The method of an example embodiment includes the system displays a map processing block enabling the user to select an add lamp tool processing block enabling the user to select lamp data including the type of lamp processing block enabling the user to tap or click the map at a desired location to add the selected lamp to the map at the desired location processing block a lamp marker is automatically displayed on the map at the desired location to indicate the presence of the lamp at the location. The color and or shape of the lamp marker corresponds to the type of lamp selected by the user processing block and enabling the user to tap or click on an existing lamp marker to move delete or change the type of existing lamp processing block .

Referring now to a processing flow diagram illustrates an example embodiment of a use case for automatic lamp replacement based on a selected mode in a lighting plan development system as described herein. The method of an example embodiment includes obtaining lamp data processing block enabling the user to select a replacement mode including but not limited to greenest brightest cheapest short term or cheapest long term processing block and lamps are automatically replaced with lamps that conform to the selected mode processing block .

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may constitute machine readable media. The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device . While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium can also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the various embodiments or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such a set of instructions. The term machine readable medium can accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical media and magnetic media.

The Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment.

