---

title: Multimedia aggregation technique based on RSS feeds
abstract: A technique to determine trending data based on the aggregation of RSS feeds received from a networking site or system is described. A computer-implemented method monitors a link path from a source for a request feed. The request feed is read and a determination is made as to which one or more of a plurality of web sites the request feed is associated with. The number of request feeds associated with particular ones of the plurality of web sites is aggregated. A determination is made, based on the number of aggregated request feeds what multimedia content is displayed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09509548&OS=09509548&RS=09509548
owner: CBS Interactive Inc.
number: 09509548
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121009
---
The present disclosure generally relates to processing of online requests for content and more particularly to a method and apparatus for aggregating multimedia content requests based on RSS feeds to monitor trending data and generate content specific multimedia pages based on the trending data.

The amount of multimedia content available to online users has grown dramatically over the recent past. Some users access this multimedia content as followers where the multimedia information and updates to such information related to one or more topics is indicated as being of interest to the user and may be pushed to the user by the content provider. Content hosting services also exist that allow users to create user profiles that include demographic information which is used to select multimedia content that may be of interest to the user. Another way to access this multimedia content is through the use of online social networking sites. In particular multimedia content may be shared by a user via a profile or landing page maintained by a user on an online social networking site. Typically a user may save hypertext representing a hyperlink to particular multimedia content such as for example a webpage a video a document etc. on the user s profile or landing page. Although the hyperlink is saved on the user s profile or landing page the multimedia content itself is usually from a third party source saved on a remote server or system. Each time a user selects the hyperlink the current version of the multimedia content saved by the third party source is accessed and displayed. Content providers are typically interested to know which of their content is most popular among users especially content accessed by users of social networking applications. Unfortunately these social networking sites may have particular requirements to allow content providers to retrieve use data to determine trending information about how many social networking users are accessing its multimedia content what types of content users are accessing and when they are accessing this content. This data retrieval is usually provided for by social networking sites through the use of an Application Programming Interface API which allows content providers to access the various systems to download use data. Unfortunately retrieving this data from the social networking site via an API on a regular basis to provide trending interest patterns among users isn t feasible with current social networking system requirements and processing bandwidth.

Certain applications exist today that allow users to manage their social media content and other favorite web sites into various formats. For example Flipboard is a social network aggregation system that organizes a user s social media content and favorite web sites into a format to allow the user to flip through their selected content. However the content within Flipboard is defined by the user. Another example of such an application is Google Currents which sorts multimedia content by topics from particular sources. However these content applications do not provide a means for managing multimedia content based on trending topics stories that users are sharing via social networking sites. In addition present multimedia content aggregation is not distinguished by the source of the multimedia content or by the content provider. In other words existing applications do not provide information about where and how a user accesses particular multimedia content rather than just by the mere fact that a user accesses certain content to determine trending topics. It would be useful to provide multimedia content based on trending data representing sharing activity of such content by users of social networking sites in order to provide consolidated multimedia content information and targeted advertising based on this trending data. It is with respect to these and other considerations that the present improvements have been needed.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some novel embodiments described herein. This summary is not an extensive overview and it is not intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope thereof. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Various embodiments are generally directed to an aggregation system and method. Some embodiments are particularly directed to techniques to determine trending data based on the aggregation of feeds received from various sources and read by a corresponding reader. For example the feeds may be RSS feeds received from sources such as social networking sites or systems and read by a corresponding RSS reader. In one embodiment an apparatus may comprise a machine readable storage media encoded with instructions a processor circuit a monitor component and an aggregation application each operative on the processor circuit. The monitor component may be an RSS monitor component operative on the processor circuit to receive an RSS feed associated with a particular destination web site. The aggregation application also operative on the processor circuit receives the RSS feeds associated with the destination web site aggregates the number of RSS feeds and selects multimedia content based on the aggregated number of RSS feeds received for the destination web site.

In one embodiment for example a computer implemented method comprises monitoring a link path from a source for a request feed. The request feed which may be an RSS feed is read and a determination is made as to which one or more of a plurality of web sites the request feed is associated with. The number of request feeds associated with particular ones of the plurality of web sites is aggregated. A determination is made based on the number of aggregated request feeds what multimedia content to display to a user.

To accomplish the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative of the various ways in which the principles disclosed herein can be practiced and all aspects and equivalents thereof are intended to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. Other advantages and novel features will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

Various embodiments are generally directed to an aggregation system and method. Some embodiments are particularly directed to techniques to determine trending data based on the aggregation of feeds for one or more particular web sites received and read by a reader. RSS feeds are used to describe the methods and techniques for implementation of the disclosed embodiments. It should be understood that various types of feeds may be monitored by the monitor component e.g. 160 and aggregated by the aggregation application e.g. 170 and still fall within the scope of the present disclosure. As used herein the term RSS means Really Simple Syndication and an RSS feed are simple text files that allow updates to content via standardized formats.

Previously content providers were limited in determining the frequency of trending information by users accessing their content since certain networking sites either restricted access to trending data information and or required the content provider to access a specific API to retrieve this trending data which has capacity constraints in view of the large number of users. The present disclosure obviates the need for content providers to rely on networking sites to provide trending data information by monitoring RSS feeds received by an RSS reader and aggregating these RSS feeds associated with web pages of the content provider. In this manner content providers may track content being shared among users of social networking platforms without the need for reliance of interfaces controlled by these social networking sites. The aggregation techniques described herein can be used in connection with any type of subscription content requested by a user and any type of content. In particular the techniques described herein may benefit content providers that support syndication of their content automatically to users who want to subscribe to updates from the content provider s web site s . Moreover content providers may benefit from these techniques to allow them to track what content is most popular to users and adjust their content offerings accordingly. In certain embodiments described herein a system is provided that monitors feeds received by readers generated by a source which may be for example a user s profile page from a social networking site. The feeds may correspond to a particular webpage or web site that includes multimedia content supplied by a content provider or publisher. The feeds or links are analyzed and the link information is extracted from the feed to determine if the feed is associated with a particular web page or web site supported by the content provider. These monitored links are aggregated to determine which content provided by the content provider is most popular among users utilizing these links or feeds. Based on the volume of these feeds or links trending data may be determined which represents trending user interest which may be used by content providers to manage their multimedia content.

The above techniques may be implemented in an apparatus or system comprising a machine readable storage media encoded with instructions a processor circuit a monitor component and an aggregation application each operative on the processor circuit. The monitor component is operative on the processor circuit to receive these feeds or links associated with particular destination web sites. The aggregation application which operates on the processor circuit receives the feeds or links associated with the destination web site of an identified content provider aggregates the number of feeds and selects multimedia content based on the aggregated number of feeds received for the destination web site. Some embodiments are particularly directed to techniques for monitoring a link path from a source for a request feed. The request feed which may be an RSS feed is read and a determination is made as to which one or more of a plurality of web sites the request feed is associated with. The number of request feeds associated with particular ones of the plurality of web sites is aggregated. A determination is made based on the number of aggregated request feeds what multimedia content is displayed.

Reference is now made to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding thereof. It may be evident however that the novel embodiments can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate a description thereof. The intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives consistent with the claimed subject matter.

Monitor components . . . N communicate with each of the readers . . . N via Internet . Each of the monitor components . . . N essentially monitors when a reader . . . N receives a link or feed from a respective source . . . N associated with a particular webpage or web site. As noted above each of the readers . . . N provides link information from a respective one of the sources . . . N associated with a particular webpage and or content on a particular webpage. Each monitor component . . . N analyzes the feed extracts the link information within the feed and determines if the feed is associated with a webpage relevant to the content provider. It should be understood that the network shown in has a limited number of elements in a certain topology and is generally intended for explanatory purposes. It may be appreciated that the system may include more or less elements in alternate topologies as desired for a given implementation. The designations a and b and c and n and similar alphabetic designators as used herein are intended to be variables representing any positive integer. Thus for example if an implementation sets a value for N 5 then a complete set of components N may include components and . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

RSS monitor component communicates with RSS reader to monitor the RSS feeds . . . N received by the RSS reader associated with particular destination web sites. In particular the RSS monitor component monitors the RSS feed from reader parses the RSS feed containing the XML file and identifies the link address contained in the parsed XML file including the source of the RSS feed. RSS monitor component may be an example of monitor component shown in . The RSS monitor component may be part of destination web site stored on destination web site server or may be a separate interface disposed between RSS reader and destination web site server . It s important to note that destination web site stored on destination web site servers may be representative of an HTML Hypertext Markup Language document of a webpage or links to web pages and other types of digital media stored on a server not shown . An RSS aggregator application may be housed within destination web site servers and communicate with the RSS monitor component . In particular the RSS aggregator application is configured to receive the identification information from the RSS monitor component and based on the number and link address information contained in the RSS feeds . . . N determine trending data to be displayed as multimedia content . . . N via destination web site servers as described in more detail herein. In addition the RSS feeds . . . N monitored by RSS monitor component may be analyzed within temporal parameters to determine these trending data requirements. In other words the RSS feeds . . . N received from user source pages . . . N may be monitored by RSS monitor component and aggregated by RSS aggregator application during a defined temporal window to determine trending data. For example if RSS feeds . . . N received during a previous two 2 hour window are all related to a particular developing news story on a news web site e.g. www.cbs.com then the RSS aggregator application determines this trending data interest based on the RSS feeds . . . N corresponding to the news web site. The link information associated with the RSS feeds . . . N is monitored by RSS monitor component and aggregated by RSS aggregator application to determine the number of RSS feeds . . . N that correspond to the news web site. Based on the volume of these RSS feeds corresponding to the exemplary news web site as aggregated by RSS aggregator application trending data may be determined and multimedia content associated with the trending data may be displayed. In this manner trending data information may be obtained based on the content viewed on a particular one of or a group of web sites. This trending data may also be determined by the source of the RSS feeds read by reader and monitored by RSS monitor component as described in more detail below.

In one exemplary use scenario an RSS feed is read by RSS reader . The RSS feed itself is an XML formatted file that includes text information and metadata such as a publishing date a link address author information etc. Since the XML file format is standardized the RSS feed is processed by various applications such as by RSS reader as well as RSS feed monitor of RSS monitor component . In addition the XML formatted RSS feed may be transferred on a standard communication protocol such as for example HTTP or File Transfer Protocol FTP via Internet shown in to accommodate file retrieval by RSS monitor component . The RSS feed may be associated with a particular web site such as for example a news web site that a user subscribes to in order to obtain updates to content sourced by the news web site. RSS feeds are typically employed by users to retrieve the latest content from sites that the user is interested in. In particular RSS obviates the need to visit the particular web sites individually and repeatedly in order to obtain the latest information. Many web sites and online publishers syndicate their content as an RSS feed so that a user may add the RSS link to the user s home page or profile page contained in a social networking site for example and the user receives updated content from the publishers on a regular basis or when content has been updated by the content provider.

The RSS monitor component detects that an RSS feed has been read by RSS reader and pulls the information contained in the XML formatted RSS feed from the RSS reader . The RSS feed monitor component forwards the RSS feed from the RSS reader to the RSS feed parsing component which then extracts various information from the RSS feed including link information e.g. http associated with the news web site for example. The RSS identifier component receives at least the link information from the RSS feed parsing component and determines if the link information corresponds to one of a plurality of web sites or web pages. Based on the comparison of the received RSS link information with the stored addresses RSS monitor component generates RSS identifier parameter which is essentially a counter of how many RSS feeds . . . N processed by RSS monitor component correspond to particular web sites or web pages of a content provider. The RSS identifier parameter is sent to RSS aggregator application for further processing.

In one exemplary use scenario if the RSS identifier parameter corresponds to a link address for a particular story e.g. Summer Olympics on a web site e.g. www.cbssports.com then the RSS aggregator component determines the level of trending user interest for this sports topic based on the frequency of RSS feeds associated with this link address. This trending user interest may be defined within a given time period. Alternatively the RSS identifier component may represent a particular event within the Summer Olympic games that seems to have peaked user interest as evidenced by the number of RSS feeds for this story as monitored by RSS monitor component . The RSS aggregator determines based on the number of RSS feeds represented by the RSS identifier parameter that this particular event within the Summer Olympics demonstrates user interest for a given time frame. Thus the indexing component may position this content in the center of the corresponding web page e.g. www.cbssports olympics and the grid weight component determines the size and look of that content on the webpage. In this manner a web page may be built with a plurality of bricks where each brick may represent multimedia content associated with one or more topics of user interest and the size of each brick is determined by the weight assigned to the particular multimedia content.

Included herein is a set of flow charts representative of exemplary methodologies for performing novel aspects of the disclosed system. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the one or more methodologies shown herein for example in the form of a flow chart or flow diagram are shown and described as a series of acts it is to be understood and appreciated that the methodologies are not limited by the order of acts as some acts may in accordance therewith occur in a different order and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example those skilled in the art will understand and appreciate that a methodology could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover not all acts illustrated in a methodology may be required for a novel implementation.

The logic flow compares the aggregated request feeds among a plurality of destination web sites at block . For example RSS aggregator component aggregates the received RSS identifier parameters for a given RSS link address and compares these RSS identifier parameters to determine which of the destination web pages or web sites stored on destination web servers represented by the number of RSS feeds . . . N are being subscribed to by users. The logic flow determines trending user interest based on the comparison of the aggregated RSS feeds among the plurality of destination web sites at block . For example RSS aggregator component determines the frequency or level of trending user interest in the content corresponding to the web site associated with each of the RSS feeds . . . N. In other words the RSS aggregator component essentially counts the number of RSS identifier parameters associated with particular link addresses and compares the totals to determine which content is popular among users.

The destination web site server may execute processing operations or logic for the system using a processing component . The processing operations required for the RSS monitor component the RSS aggregator application communications component and web page generation with multimedia content N may be shared with processing component . The processing component may comprise various hardware elements software elements or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements may include devices logic devices components processors microprocessors circuits processor circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits application specific integrated circuits ASIC programmable logic devices PLD digital signal processors DSP field programmable gate array FPGA memory units logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth. Examples of software elements may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs software development programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints as desired for a given implementation.

The destination web site server may execute communications operations or logic for the system using communications component . The communications component may implement any well known communications techniques and protocols such as techniques suitable for use with packet switched networks e.g. public networks such as the Internet private networks such as an enterprise intranet and so forth circuit switched networks e.g. the public switched telephone network or a combination of packet switched networks and circuit switched networks with suitable gateways and translators . The communications component may include various types of standard communication elements such as one or more communications interfaces network interfaces network interface cards NIC radios wireless transmitters receivers transceivers wired and or wireless communication media physical connectors and so forth. The RSS reader N may communicate with destination web site server and one or more source web pages N over a communications media using communications signals in the form of RSS feeds N via the communications component . The user source web pages N may communicate with RSS readers N via RSS links N. The user web pages N are maintained and accessed by servers separate from destination web site server and RSS readers N.

The destination web site server may comprise part of an overall communications system or network capable of communicating information between the RSS monitor component and RSS aggregator application . In particular the destination web site server may be a centralized server to manage the aggregation of RSS feeds N received by RSS reader N. The RSS monitor component and RSS aggregation application may be integral to the destination web site server in that the processing component may be shared with the RSS monitor component and that the RSS aggregation application may run on the processing component . In various embodiments the source web pages N may be accessed using various client devices implemented as a mobile device having both computing and communications capabilities such as a notebook computer a handheld computer a smart phone a tablet computer a remote control a smart remote control and so forth. The client device used to access source web pages N may also comprise or be implemented as a fixed device having both computing and communications capabilities such as a desktop computer workstation digital television smart television set top box STB or digital media transceiver audio video AV receiver consumer appliance a game system and so forth. When a user subscribes to an RSS feed via a source web page N for example a corresponding RSS feed is sent over RSS link N and read be RSS reader N. A user of source page N may subscribe to a particular RSS feed N by clicking an RSS icon in a web browser for example. The RSS icon is associated with an application that initiates the subscription process to a particular webpage corresponding to the RSS feed. RSS reader reads each of the RSS feeds N received via RSS link N and polls the respective RSS feed subscribed to by a user for new content. The RSS readers N may check the user s subscribed feeds regularly for new content. When updates to the content are available the content is downloaded with the RSS feed N. The RSS monitor component communicates with RSS readers N via media and monitors the RSS feeds N received by the RSS readers associated with particular destination web sites. The RSS aggregator application communicates with the RSS monitor component and may run on processing component and utilize communications component . The RSS aggregator application is configured to receive the identification information from the RSS monitor component and based on the amount of RSS feeds and the link address information contained in the RSS feeds N determines trending data to be displayed as multimedia content N by destination web site server .

The distributed system may comprise a first server device and a second server device . In general the client device and the server device may be the same or similar to the destination web site server as described with reference to . For instance the server device and the server device may each comprise a processing component and a communications component which are the same or similar to the processing component and the communications component respectively as described with reference to . In another example the devices may communicate over a communications media using communications signals via the communications components .

The server device may comprise or employ one or more programs that operate to perform various methodologies in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment for example the server device may implement a the RSS monitor component . The RSS monitor component may comprise an application residing on the server device that is arranged to interoperate with the RSS aggregator application implemented by the server device . The RSS monitor component and the RSS aggregator application may also provide a particular schema to format render and present multimedia content information N based on the monitoring processing and aggregation of RSS feeds N via media using signals . The server device may further implement a web browser . In one embodiment the server device may communicate with server device using a software architecture designed to support interoperable machine to machine interaction over a media using signals . In particular the server devices and may implement various web technologies including remote procedure call RPC based technologies simple object access protocol SOAP based technologies service oriented architecture SOA based technologies or representational state transfer REST based technologies among others to communicate information between the RSS monitor component and RSS aggregator application . Generally SOAP is a protocol specification for exchanging structured information to implement web services over a computer network. SOAP relies on extensible markup language XML as a message format. SOAP also relies on other application layer protocols such as RPC and hypertext transfer protocol HTTP for message negotiation and transmission. In this manner server device may be configured to RSS identifier parameters to server device for processing by RSS aggregation application .

The server devices and may comprise or employ one or more server programs that operate to perform various methodologies in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment for example the server device may implement some or all of the features of system and the communications components may be used to provide parameters between the RSS monitor component of server device to RSS aggregator application on the server device .

As shown in the computing architecture comprises a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors including without limitation an AMD Athlon Duron and Opteron processors ARM application embedded and secure processors IBM and Motorola DragonBall and PowerPC processors IBM and Sony Cell processors Intel Celeron Core 2 Duo Itanium Pentium Xeon and XScale processors and similar processors. Dual microprocessors multi core processors and other multi processor architectures may also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus provides an interface for system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that may further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. Interface adapters may connect to the system bus via a slot architecture. Example slot architectures may include without limitation Accelerated Graphics Port AGP Card Bus Extended Industry Standard Architecture E ISA Micro Channel Architecture MCA NuBus Peripheral Component Interconnect Extended PCI X PCI Express Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA and the like.

The computing architecture may comprise or implement various articles of manufacture. An article of manufacture may comprise a computer readable storage medium to store logic. Examples of a computer readable storage medium may include any tangible media capable of storing electronic data including volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of logic may include executable computer program instructions implemented using any suitable type of code such as source code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code object oriented code visual code and the like.

The system memory may include various types of computer readable storage media in the form of one or more higher speed memory units such as read only memory ROM random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory polymer memory such as ferroelectric polymer memory ovonic memory phase change or ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards an array of devices such as Redundant Array of Independent Disks RAID drives solid state memory devices e.g. USB memory solid state drives SSD and any other type of storage media suitable for storing information. In the illustrated embodiment shown in the system memory can include non volatile memory and or volatile memory . A basic input output system BIOS can be stored in the non volatile memory .

The computer may include various types of computer readable storage media in the form of one or more lower speed memory units including an internal or external hard disk drive HDD a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD to read from or write to a removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive to read from or write to a removable optical disk e.g. a CD ROM or DVD . The HDD FDD and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a HDD interface an FDD interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The HDD interface for external drive implementations can include at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE 1394 interface technologies. The drives and associated computer readable media provide volatile and or nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For example a number of program modules can be stored in the drives and memory units including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . In one embodiment the one or more application programs other program modules and program data can include for example the various applications and or components of the system .

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wire wireless input devices for example a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices may include microphones infra red IR remote controls radio frequency RF remote controls game pads stylus pens card readers dongles finger print readers gloves graphics tablets joysticks keyboards retina readers touch screens e.g. capacitive resistive etc. trackballs trackpads sensors styluses and the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface and so forth.

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adaptor . The monitor may be internal or external to the computer . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices such as speakers printers and so forth. The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wire and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wire wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks for example a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which may connect to a global communications network for example the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a wire and or wireless communication network interface or adaptor . The adaptor can facilitate wire and or wireless communications to the LAN which may also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless functionality of the adaptor . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wire and or wireless device connects to the system bus via the input device interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with wire and wireless devices or entities using the IEEE 802 family of standards such as wireless devices operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. IEEE 802.11 over the air modulation techniques . This includes at least Wi Fi or Wireless Fidelity WiMax and Bluetooth wireless technologies among others. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11x a b g n etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wire networks which use IEEE 802.3 related media and functions .

The clients and the servers may communicate information between each other using a communication framework . The communications framework may implement any well known communications techniques and protocols. The communications framework may be implemented as a packet switched network e.g. public networks such as the Internet private networks such as an enterprise intranet and so forth a circuit switched network e.g. the public switched telephone network or a combination of a packet switched network and a circuit switched network with suitable gateways and translators . The communications framework may implement various network interfaces arranged to accept communicate and connect to a communications network. A network interface may be regarded as a specialized form of an input output interface. Network interfaces may employ connection protocols including without limitation direct connect Ethernet e.g. thick thin twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T and the like token ring wireless network interfaces cellular network interfaces IEEE 802.11a x network interfaces IEEE 802.16 network interfaces IEEE 802.20 network interfaces and the like. Further multiple network interfaces may be used to engage with various communications network types. For example multiple network interfaces may be employed to allow for the communication over broadcast multicast and unicast networks. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount speed and capacity distributed network controller architectures may similarly be employed to pool load balance and otherwise increase the communicative bandwidth required by clients and the servers . A communications network may be any one and the combination of wired and or wireless networks including without limitation a direct interconnection a secured custom connection a private network e.g. an enterprise intranet a public network e.g. the Internet a Personal Area Network PAN a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN an Operating Missions as Nodes on the Internet OMNI a Wide Area Network WAN a wireless network a cellular network and other communications networks.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression one embodiment or an embodiment along with their derivatives. These terms mean that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Further some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not necessarily intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other.

It is emphasized that the Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to allow a reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein respectively. Moreover the terms first second third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

What has been described above includes examples of the disclosed architecture. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components and or methodologies but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations are possible. Accordingly the novel architecture is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

