---

title: Chlorophyll c containing degranulation suppressor
abstract: Degranulation suppressors are provided that are effective against allergic disease and osteoarthritis. The degranulation suppressors contain chlorophyll c.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09636326&OS=09636326&RS=09636326
owner: MARUHA NICHIRO CORPORATION
number: 09636326
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20121228
---
In recent years as the eating habit of Japanese people has changed and as air pollution and infections have decreased the incidences of various allergic diseases typified by pollinosis food allergy atopic dermatitis bronchial asthma and contact hypersensitivity are increasing rapidly and so are the numbers of patients suffering from osteoarthritis and other bone joint related diseases as aging accelerates in the Japanese society.

According to the 2003 Survey of Health and Welfare compiled by the Ministry of Health Labor and Welfare MHLW more than forty million people accounting for about a third 35.9 of Japan s population irrespective of sex and age present with allergic symptoms in either the skin respiratory organs or the eye and nose.

Data by disease can be found in the 2010 Report of Akazawa Group in Scientific Research under MHLW grant in the 2005 2008 period the prevalence of infantile bronchial asthma was 13.8 at ages 6 7 9.5 at ages 13 14 and 8.3 at ages 16 18 whereas the prevalence of bronchial asthma in adults aged 20 44 was 5.4 . As regards allergic rhinitis and pollinosis the 2009 Clinical Guideline for Nasal Allergy reports that in the 1998 2008 period the overall prevalence of allergic rhinitis increased from 29.8 to 39.4 and that of Japanese cedar pollinosis increased from 16.2 to 26.5 . Speaking of atopic dermatitis its prevalence was 13.2 at age 3 10.6 in sixth graders at elementary school 9.4 in the twenties 8.3 in the thirties 4.8 in the forties and 2.5 in the fifties to sixties the 2008 Clinical Guideline for Atopic Dermatitis .

Allergic diseases occurring in the daily life of Japanese people are one of the major factors that lower their quality of life QOL . According to the 2003 MHLW Survey idem approximately a half 53.4 of patients complaining of allergic symptoms in respiratory organs responded that they could not sleep well and approximately 40 37.2 of patients suffering allergic symptoms in the eye and nose responded that they could not concentrate on work housekeeping or schoolwork. 

Conventional treatments of allergic diseases have involved medication of drugs such as antihistamines and steroids as part of symptomatic therapy but a problem with these drugs is that they cause serious side effects if administered for an extended period of time. It has therefore been desired to develop an ingredient that can be manufactured in a safe and easy way and which is capable of alleviating suppressing or preventing allergic symptoms with the additional feature that it can be integrated into the daily dietary life.

As aging accelerates in the Japanese society bone joint diseases such as osteoarthritis and osteoporosis are also increasing in number year by year. According to the 2007 National Livelihood Survey compiled by MHLW two major causes for needed care were joint disease and fracture falling which accounted for 20.2 ranking first and 12.5 ranking fourth respectively of the persons in need of support whereas they accounted for 9.4 ranking fourth and 8.4 ranking fifth respectively of the persons in need of nursing care thus bone joint diseases are one of the major factors that degrade the activities of daily living ADL and QOL of Japanese people. In 2007 the Japanese Orthopaedic Association proposed a concept called locomotive syndrome which refers to either a state that requires nursing care or one presenting a high risk for the need of nursing care both due to a locomotor disability and in 2009 Yoshimura et al. at the University of Tokyo Hospital conducted a large scale resident s cohort study called Research on Osteoarthritis Osteoporosis Against Disability ROAD and reported that as many as forty seven million people aged 40 and above were found to have a locomotive syndrome. Obviously there exists an urgent need to cope with allergic disease and bone joint disease because for one thing they are quite serious diseases that can potentially degrade ADL and QOL as well as shortening the health span and for another thing the ever growing medical costs must be reduced.

Under these circumstances active efforts are being made to develop pharmaceutical drugs and food ingredients that can alleviate suppress or prevent allergic disease and osteroarthritis. Food ingredients so far reported to have an allergy suppressing action include for example Patent Document 1 royal jelly Patent Document 2 fucoidan which is a water soluble polysaccharide component in seaweeds Patent Documents 3 and 4 and alginic acid Patent Document 5 .

It is known that the degranulation reaction of mast cells or basophiles is critical to the onset of various allergic diseases including pollinosis atopic dermatitis allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis. When an allergen invades the body the production of an allergen specific antibody is induced and the allergen specific antibody produced binds to the surface of a cell such as a mast cell or a basophile whereupon sensitization is established. When the body is invaded again by an allergen it binds the allergen specific antibody on the surface of the mast cell or basophile whereupon a granule containing a chemical mediator is released out of the cell triggering an allergic reaction such as enhancement of vascular permeability or constriction of bronchial smooth muscle. Hence one effective way to suppress various allergic diseases including pollinosis atopic dermatitis allergic rhinitis and allergic conjunctivitis is by suppressing this degranulation reaction.

Food ingredients so far reported to have the degranulation suppressing action include for example a plant galena extract Patent Document 6 and phycoerythrin found in red algae Non Patent Document 1 .

Furthermore a recent study reported that a glucosamine hydrochloride having an osteroarthritis suppressing action exerted a degranulation suppressing action and also reported was an osteroarthritis suppressing effect mediated by the degranulation suppressing action Non Patent Document 2 . These results suggest that by investigating the degranulation suppressing action not only the effect for suppressing allergic disease but also the effect for suppressing osteroarthritis can be verified.

Aside from the glucosamine hydrochloride various other ingredients have been reported to have the osteroarthritis suppressing action and they include a chondroitin sulfate Non Patent Documents 3 4 5 6 7 and 8 and plant extracts such as those of a plant of the family Compositae Patent Document No. 7 and spices Patent Document 8 .

Chlorophyll which is a photosynthesis pigment typically contained in plants may be defined as a metal complex of cyclic tetrapyrrole coordinated with Mg or Zn and while it is primarily used as a colorant and food additives that take advantage of its nature as pigment chlorophyll s recent medical application in photodynamic therapy PDT is worth mention Non Patent Document 9 . In this connection chlorophyll of high purity is extracted from plants algae etc. using organic solvents etc. and is subsequently separated and purified using an absorption photometer high performance liquid chromatography etc. Non Patent Documents 10 11 and 12 . Concerning chlorophyll s functionality a report was made of a chlorophyllin copper complex as a chlorophyll analog having an antioxidization based antimicrobial anticancer antiatherosclerotic antipsoriatic and other beneficiary actions Non Patent Document 13 however no report has yet been published about the degranulation suppressing effect of chlorophyll that contributes to allergy suppression as by suppressing vascular permeability or to osteroarthritis suppression.

The problem the present invention addresses is the recent rapid increase in the number of patients with allergic disease and bone joint disease about which something must be done as soon as possible to reduce the incidence of these diseases the present invention provides degranulation suppressing agents that contain chlorophyll c as an active ingredient that shows a degranulation suppressing action.

As a result of intensive studies the present inventors found that while there are a lot of chlorophylls available chlorophyll c or an algal powder or an algal extract that contain chlorophyll c as an ingredient involved in activity has a degranulation suppressing action and this finding has led to the accomplishment of the present invention. Briefly the present invention has as its objective providing chlorophyll c or a composition for alleviating treating or preventing allergic disease or osteoarthritis by suppressing the degranulation reaction of mast cells basophiles etc. said composition being characterized by comprising chlorophyll c as an active ingredient.

Briefly the present invention relates to a degranulation suppressing composition comprising chlorophyll c. This degranulation suppressing composition may be used as an osteroarthritis suppressing agent or an allergy suppressing agent. It may also be used as a food in which chlorophyll c has been incorporated. Specifically it may be used as a degranulation suppressing functional food comprising chlorophyll c. It may also be used as a feed or pet food in which chlorophyll c has been incorporated. Specifically it may be used as a degranulation suppressing feed or pet food in which chlorophyll c has been incorporated.

According to the present invention by using chlorophyll c or an extract of a particular kind of seaweeds that contain chlorophyll c there can be obtained a degranulation suppressor that can be taken orally and which comprises chlorophyll c as an active ingredient use can be made of the suppressor as a pharmaceutical a food or beverage a feed or a pet food. By orally taking such pharmaceutical food or beverage feed or pet food the degranulation reaction of mast cells or basophiles can be suppressed to enable alleviation suppression or prevention of allergic disease or osteoarthritis.

As noted above the present invention relates to degranulation suppressor compositions comprising chlorophyll c and it will be described below in greater details.

Chlorophyll c is a porphyrin compound contained in certain algae whose names are mentioned below it has the structural formula 

and consists of three species c1 c2 and c3. The structures of chlorophylls c1 c2 and c3 are unlike molecules having the chlorin skeleton such as chlorophylls a b and d which are incapable of suppressing the degranulation reaction characterized by having the porphyrin skeleton with a C17 C18 double bond as depicted in the above structural formula. Their molecular weights are close to each other c1 610 c2 608 and c3 653 and so are the spectra for absorbance maxima in diethyl ether c1 444.4 nm c2 447.8 nm and c3 450.8 nm . Either form of chlorophyll c starts to be biosynthesized in algae from divinyl protochlorophyllide a and exhibits a photosynthetic action and an antioxidizing action.

It is through the suppression of the degranulation from mast cells or basophiles that chlorophyll c is capable of alleviating suppressing and preventing allergic disease or osteoarthritis.

The starting materials from which the chlorophyll c to be contained in the composition of the present invention can be obtained are not particularly limited. Chlorophyll c which is one of the photosynthetic pigments found in plants is known to be contained in oxygen producing photosynthetic organisms particularly of the Division Dinoflagellata the Division Cryptophyta the Division Heterokontophyta including the Class Chrysophyceae the Class Raphidophyceae the Class Phaeophyceae the Class Bacillariophyceae Diatomea and the Class Eustigmatophyceae as well as the Division Haptophyta. Preferred examples are brown algae of the order ECTOCARPALES Setchell et Gardner 1922 the family Ectocarpaceae 1828 the genus Bornet 1892 the genus Delepine et Asensi 1975 nom. cons. J. Agardh Ouriques et Bouzon the genus Lyngbye 1819 nom. cons. Kuetzing Nagai Yamada Dillwyn Lyngbye Setchell et Gardner Yamada et Tanaka the genus Hamel 1939 Yamada Itono Kuetzing Hamel the genus J. E. Gray 1864 J. E. Smith Silva Sonder J. Tanaka Harvey Silva the genus Kylin 1947 Rosenvinge Peters the genus Kawai et Tokuyama the genus Kuetzing 1849 Hudson Kuetzing the genus Derbes et Solier in Castagne 1851 Setchell et Gardner fasciculatum Thuret the family Pylaiellaceae Pedersen 1984 the genus Bornet Kuckuck ex Hamel 1939 Grunow Gerloff the genus Bory 1823 orth. cons. Linnaeus Kjellman the family Sorocarpaceae Pedersen 1977 the genus Bory 1822 Takamatsu Kim the genus Sauvageau 1900 Reinke Sauvageau the order RALFSIALES Nakamura 1972 emend. Lin et Kawai 61 the family Lithodermataceae Hauck 1883 the genus Svedelius in Engler et Prantl 1911 subextensum Waem S. Lund the family Ralfsciaceae Fardlow 1881 the genus Kjellman 1889 Ruprecht Papenfuss Yendo Kogame et Yoshida Harvey Wynne the genus Hollenberg 1969 J. Tanaka et Chilhara the genus Hollenberg 1969 Hollenberg the genus Saunders 1899 Weber van Bosse Silva the genus Kawai 1989 Okamura et Yamada Kawai the genus Berkeley in Smith et Sowerby 1843 Gunnerus Setchell et Gardner Areschoug Areschoug the order SYRINGODERMATALES Henry 1984 the family Synringodermataceae Henry 1084 the genus Levring 1940 Setchell et Gardner Levring the order SPHACELARIALES Migula 1909 the family Sphacelariaceae Decaisne 1842 the genus Lyngbye in Hornemann 1818 Sauvageau Sauvageau Montagne sensu Reinke sensu Yendo Kitayama Holmes ex Hauck Kuetzing Pringsheim Kylin Meneghini Segawa the family Stypocaulaceae Oltmanns 1922 the genus Kuetzing 1843 Grateloup Kuetzing the genus Kuetzing 1843 Ruprecht Okamura the order DICTYOTALES Kjellman in Engler et Prantl 1896 the family Dictyotaceae Lamouroux ex Dumortier 1822 the genus Lamouroux 1809 nom. cons. Okamura Okamura Tanaka Okamura Okamura Tanaka Montagne Vickers De Candolle Lamouroux Okamura Okamura Noda Okamura Boergesen Holmes the genus Lamouroux 1809 nom. cons. Hudson Lamouroux Yamada Lamouroux Setchell Greville Zanardini J. Agardh Yamada Harvey the genus Levring 1940 decumbens Okamura Levring the genus J. Agardh 1894 flabellatus Okamura the genus J. Agardh 1894 variegata Lamouroux Womersley ex Oliveira Gymnosorus collaris Pocockiella variegata the genus J. Agardh 1984 coriaceum Holmes Okamura the genus Adanson 1763 nom. cons. arborescens Holmes australis Hauck boryana Thivy Yamada fasciata Ni Ni Win Arai et Kawai Yamada melemele Abbot et Magruder minor Yamada moffittiana Abbot et Huisman okinwaensis Ni Ni Win Arai et Kawai ryukyuana Y. P. Lee et Kamura Tanaka et Nozawa terricolor Ni Ni Win Arai et Kawai Ni Ni Win Arai et Kawai the genus DeClerk et Coppjans 2009 Dawson Hwang Lee et Kim in Hwang et al. the genus Kuetzing 1843 J. Tanaka sensu Yendo J. Tanaka Yendo sensu Yendo sensu Yendo the genus Kuetzing 1843 Lamouroux Papenfuss the genus 1817 nom. cons. J. Agardh Tanaka et K. Nozawa the order CHORDARIALES Setchell et Gardner 1925 the family Acrotrichaceae Kuckuck 1929 the genus Kylin 1907 Kylin Okamura et Yamada the family Chordariaceae Greville 1830 the genus 1817 nom. cons. Kjellman Kawai et Kim O. F. Mueller Setchell et Gardner the genus Kuetzing 1843 Tokida 

The method for obtaining the chlorophyll c to be used in the present invention is not particularly limited if the chlorophyll c is neither decomposed nor denatured. For instance the starting material to be subjected to extraction may be used as it is or after being subjected to desalting water washing and drying processes alternatively it may be first reduced to a powder in order to improve the extraction efficiency. If desired in order to further facilitate the extraction of chlorophyll c out of the cell a decomposition process may be preliminarily performed by treatment with an enzyme such as protease which degrades such proteins as the one forming the cell membrane or the one binding to chlorophyll c or cellulase which degrades cellulose present in the cell wall and the like. The extract may be concentrated by any suitable technique such as vacuum concentration freeze concentration or membrane concentration.

The solvent for extracting the chlorophyll c to be used in the present invention is not particularly limited if the chlorophyll c is neither decomposed nor denatured . Examples include water salt containing aqueous solutions and organic solvents such as alcohols e.g. methanol ethanol and butanol ethers e.g. diethyl ether esters e.g. ethyl acetate and ketones e.g. acetone preferred examples include ethanol methanol acetone and diethyl ether.

Described below is one specific method for producing chlorophyll c from a chlorophyll c containing alga for the purpose of concentrating chlorophyll c in a convenient and inexpensive way by removing impurities such as salts polysaccharides and other non chlorophyll c water soluble and water insoluble components the alga is washed under stirring with 1 100 volumes of water and after repeating the same washing operation several times the alga is dried under appropriate conditions and ground with a mill to produce a dry algal powder as a concentrated form of chlorophyll c.

For the purpose of concentrating chlorophyll c even further the thus produced dry algal powder as a concentrated form of chlorophyll c may be subjected to extraction with 60 100 preferably 80 hydrous ethanol under stirring overnight at ordinary temperatures. After the extraction suction filtration is performed to remove the insoluble matter and the resulting extract is rotary evaporated to dryness thereby yielding an algal hydrous ethanol extract as a concentrated form of chlorophyll c.

For the purpose of concentrating chlorophyll c still further the thus produced algal hydrous ethanol extract as a concentrated form of chlorophyll c may be subjected to phase separation using n butanol and water and the resulting n butanol fraction may be subjected to further phase separation using hexane and hydrous methanol. The resulting hydrous methanol fraction is fractionated on a silica gel column and an ODS column eluted on a gradient using an aqueous acetonitrile solution and pure acetonitrile and fractionated by HPLC involving peak identification based on the absorbance at a wavelength of 254 nm. The resulting fractions and an authentic sample of chlorophyll c were subjected to HPLC and measured for the absorbance at 450 nm by verifying the occurrence of a peak at the same retention time as for the authentic sample of chlorophyll c an even more purified form of chlorophyll c can be produced from the starting algal hydrous ethanol extract as a concentrated form of chlorophyll c.

The protease that may be used in the present invention to decompose proteins is not particularly limited. Examples include Newlase F3G Newlase A Morushin F Sumizyme AP Denapushin 2P Orientase 20A Tetoraze S Brewer s Clarex Protease YP SS Protease A Amano G Protease N Amano G Protease S Amano G Papain W 40 bromelain F Puromoddo 223LP Sumizyme LP Sumizyme FP Sumizyme LPL PROTIN SD NY 10 PROTIN SD PC 10F Brewer s Protease Accelazyme NP50.000 purified Papain purified Papain for use in foods Denachimu AP PTN Neutrase nucleicin Orientase 10NL Orientase 90N Orientase ONS Papain F trypsin 4.0T COROLASE N VERON L10 COROLASE L10 COROLASE 7089 Panchidaze NP 2 Panchidaze P Aroaze AP 10 Aroaze NP 10 Aroaze NS Enchiron NBS Papain Protex 7L Protex 14L Thermoase PC10F PROTIN SD AC 10F PROTIN SD AY 10 Proleather FG F Protease P Amano 3 G alkali Protease GL Protex 6L Protx 89L Purafect Purafect OX Puroperaze Protex OXG Protex 40L Sumizyme MP Delvolase Esperase Savinase Alcalase Clear Lens Pro Everlase Kan nase Novozyme FM Biopuraze OP Biopuraze AL 15FG Biopuraze 30G Biopuraze APL 30 Biopuraze XL 416F Biopuraze SP 20FG Biopuraze SP 4FG Protease CL 15 Orientase 22BF Aroaze XA 10 Enchiron SA Bakezyme PPU95.000 Bakezyme B500 Polarzyme Protease M Amano G Kokulase P Actinase AS Gurindoamiru PR59 Gurindoamiru PR43 Flavorzyme Prometax Noboran VERON W Protease AL Magnax MT Sofutagen M2 Collupulin Fromase Meito RENNET Meito RENNNET SUPER and Maxiren.

The cellulase that may be used in the present invention to decompose celluloses is not particularly limited. Examples include Cellulase A Amano 3 Cellulase T Amano 4 Glucanase Spezyme CP Multifect Multifect GC Extra Optiflow RC Primafast IndiAge NeutraFlex Accellerase Optimash Optimase CX Puradax HX GODO TCF GODO TCL GODO TCD H3 VESSELEX Softagen C 1 Super heat resistant Cellulase Cellulizer CL Cellulizer ACE Cellulase Nagase Cellzyme C Cellulase SS. Cellulase XL 531 Bakezyme concreate Citrase CL Bakezyme X CELL Varidase TRL Varidase ANC40 CELLSOFT Carezyme Celluzyme Celluclast Cellic CTec Cellulosin AC40 Cellulosin AL Cellulosin TF Cellulase onozuka 3S Cellulase Y NC PANCELASE br Ce11SEB Ts Sumizyme AC Sumizyme C Sucrase C Enchiron MC Enchiron MCH BioHIT Bio STAR Cellulase ES Finizyme UltraFlo Viscozyme Glucanex Filtrase L Filtrase NLCL Filtrase Premium L Sumizyme BGA and naringinase.

The dosage form of the composition of the present invention is not particularly limited. Examples include dusts granules tablets syrups injections drops powders suppositories suspensions ointments etc. The composition of the present invention may be administered either orally or parenterally e.g. intravenous intramuscular subcutaneous rectal or transdermal . The composition may contain additives such as excipients disintegrants binders lubricants and colorants. Exemplary excipients include lactose glucose corn starch sorbitol and microcrystalline cellulose exemplary disintegrants include starch sodium alginate gelatin powder calcium carbonate calcium citrate and dextrin exemplary binders include dimethylcellulose poly vinyl alcohol poly vinyl ether methylcellulose ethylcellulose gum arabic gelatin hydroxypropylcellulose and poly vinyl pyrrolidone exemplary lubricants include talc magnesium stearate poly ethylene glycol and hardened vegetable oils.

Depending on its dosage form the composition of the present invention contains varying amounts of chlorophyll c which typically range from about 0.1 to 100 mg by dry weight in the total composition. In the case of an algal powder or extract that contains chlorophyll c as an active ingredient its content typically ranges from about 0.1 to 10 wt preferably from about 1 to 3 wt in the total composition.

The dose of administration is determined as appropriate for individual cases in consideration of various factors such as the age body weight and sex of the patient the type of disease and the severity of symptoms and the frequency of administration may be once or more than once a day. For instance the dose of administration may be such that chlorophyll c is ingested in a dry weight ranging from 0.1 to 100 mg an algal powder or extract that contains chlorophyll c as an active ingredient may be ingested in a dry weight ranging from about 0.1 g to 10 g preferably from about 1 g to 3 g.

The composition of the present invention may either on its own or after being added to a processed food serve as a functional food or beverage that has degranulation suppressing activity allergy suppressing activity or osteoarthritis suppressing activity. The type of the food or beverage to be produced is not particularly limited if it does not interfere with the degranulation suppressing action allergy suppressing action or osteoarthritis suppressing action of the active ingredient chlorophyll c.

Examples of the processed food to which the composition of the present invention may be added include bakery cereal flour and noodles processed fishery products processed agricultural and forestry products processed animal foods cow s milk and dairy products oils and fats either unprocessed or processed liquors beverages seasonings prepared frozen foods retorted foods instant foods seasoned dried products such as fish shell senbei salt preserved fish roe and other products tsukudani fish and other foods boiled in soy sauce such as kanroni shigureni and kakuni broiled processed products boiled processed products seasoned processed products such as fish shell miso kamaboko minced and steamed fish such as mushi steamed kamaboko yaki broiled kamoboko age fried kamaboko yude boiled kamaboko fuumi flavored kamaboko housou packaged kamaboko saiku crafted kamaboko and kunsei smoked kamaboko pickles such as shoyu soy zuke miso zuke kasu sake lees zuke su vinegar zuke and ko ji rice malt zuke shiokara salted fish guts such as katsuo bonito shiokara uni sea urchin shiokara and ika squid shiokara canned products binned products fish sauce and extract products.

The food and beverage of the present invention encompass health foods and beverages dietary supplements foods for specified health uses foods with nutrient functional claims etc. The foods for specified health uses refers to those foods and beverages that are ingested in dietary life for a specified health purpose and which have a label claiming that the specified health purpose may be achieved by ingesting them. Such foods and beverages may have labels attached thereto claiming that they alleviate symptoms of allergy alleviate symptoms of pollinosis alleviate symptoms of atopic dermatitis alleviate symptoms of osteoarthritis or that they are foods for persons worried about allergy or foods for persons worried about osteoarthritis. 

The composition of the present invention may either on its own or after being added to a feed or pet food serve as a feed or pet food that has degranulation suppressing activity allergy suppressing activity or osteoarthritis suppressing activity. The type of the feed or pet food to be produced is not particularly limited if it does not interfere with the degranulation suppressing action allergy suppressing action or osteoarthritis suppressing action of the active ingredient chlorophyll c.

The feed or pet food of the present invention is not particularly limited in scope and they may be feeds for cattle and poultry such as cows pigs and chickens or feeds for farming crustaceans and fish shellfish or pet foods for companion animals such as dogs cats hamsters and squirrels. The form the feed or pet food of the present invention can take is not particularly limited and examples include a pellet type a crumble type a flake type a bulky type a dry type a wet type a semi moist type a biscuit type a sausage type a jerky type a powder type a granule type a capsule type etc.

The present invention will be described below more specifically by reference to Examples. It should however be understood that the following Examples are by no means intended to limit the scope of the present invention.

Chlorophylls heretofore unknown to have a degranulation suppressing action were subjected to a test as described below for evaluating their degranulation suppressing activity using the rat basophile derived cell line RBL 2H3.

First the rat basophile derived cell line RBL 2H3 was diluted with a DMEM medium product of SIGMA containing 10 fetal bovine serum hereinafter referred to as FBS to give a density of 2.5 10cells ml dispensed on a 24 well culture plate in a volume of 1 ml well and cultured overnight at 37 C. under conditions of 5 COand 100 humidity. After removing the culture supernatant the cell surfaces were washed with 1 ml well of a phosphate buffer solution hereinafter referred to as PBS and an anti DNP IgE solution prepared by diluting mouse monoclonal anti dinitrophenol product of SIGMA with a DMEM medium to give a concentration of 50 ng ml was added in a volume of 500 l well followed by incubation for 2 hours at 37 C. under conditions of 5 COand 100 humidity. After the end of incubation the anti DNP IgE solution was removed and washing was done using 1.5 ml well of a buffer solution containing 137 mM NaCl product of nacalai tesque 2.7 mM KCl JUNSEI CHEMICAL 1.8 Mm CaCl.2HO JUNSEI CHEMICAL 1 mM MgCl.6HO JUNSEI CHEMICAL 5.6 mM glucose Wako Pure Chemical Industries 20 mM HEPES Wako Pure Chemical Industries and 0.1 BSA the buffer solution being a modified Tyrode buffer which is hereinafter referred to as MT buffer this procedure was repeated twice. Next an MT buffer containing 0.5 of a chlorophyll i.e. an authentic sample of chlorophyll a product of DHI an authentic sample of chlorophyll b product of DHI an authentic sample of chlorophyll c2 product of DHI or an authentic sample of chlorophyll d purified from cyanobacteria adhering to surfaces of red algae by referring to Non Patent Documents 10 and 11 for example was added in a volume of 490 l well and incubation was conducted for 10 minutes at 37 C. under conditions of 5 COand 100 humidity. To a control group that would not undergo suppression of the degranulation reaction an MT buffer containing 0.5 ethanol was added. After 10 min incubation Albumin dinitrophenyl product of SIGMA was added to give a concentration of 200 ng ml and the mixture was stirred to homogeneity followed by 30 min incubation at 37 C. under conditions of 5 COand 100 humidity. After the end of incubation the mixture was ice cooled for 10 minutes to quench the reaction and 500 l of the supernatant was recovered. To the cells from which the culture supernatant was recovered Cell Lysate buffer product of SIGMA was added in a volume of 500 l well and thereafter an ultrasonic cell disrupter was used to form a homogeneous cell lysate which was recovered in a volume of 500 l. The culture supernatant and the cell lysate were dispensed on a 96 well plate each in a volume of 50 l well and incubated at 37 C. for 5 minutes. After the end of incubation an aqueous solution containing 100 mM citric acid and 3.3 mM p nitrophenyl 2 acetoamido 2 deoxy D glucopyranoside product of Wako Pure Chemical Industries the aqueous solution is hereinafter referred to as a substrate solution was added in a volume of 100 l well and after thorough mixing incubation was conducted at 37 C. for 25 minutes. After the end of incubation an aqueous solution containing 2 M glycine the aqueous solution is hereinafter referred to as a reaction quencher was added in a volume of 100 l well and thorough mixing was conducted to quench the reaction thereafter a plate reader was used to measure the absorbance at 405 nm Through this sequence of reactions degranulation occurred and the activity of hexosaminidase contained in the granules was measured to calculate the proportion of granules released from the cells to the culture supernatant. For evaluation the proportion of granules released into the culture supernatant from the cells in the control group to which 0.5 of 100 ethanol had been added instead of the test sample and which would not undergo suppression of degranulation was taken as 100 and the proportion of granules released from the cells in each test sample added group into the culture supernatant was counted as percent degranulation relative to this reference value.

For efficacy evaluation a Dunnett multiple comparison test was conducted on those groups that were found to have statistically significant differences by variance analysis. In a graph showing the result the group found to have a significant difference at a 5 significance level was marked by symbol whereas the group found to have a significant difference at a 1 significance level was marked by symbol . The same test was conducted in Example 2 and subsequent Examples.

As shown in the authentic samples of chlorophyll a b and d were recognized to have no degranulation suppressing activity at all on the other hand the groups treated with the authentic sample of chlorophyll c2 were shown to exhibit the degranulation suppressing activity in a dose dependent manner which was already apparent when chlorophyll c2 was added in a very low concentration which was only about 0.05 g ml by dry weight. It was therefore clear that chlorophyll c2 has a very strong activity for suppressing degranulation which has heretofore been entirely unknown in chlorophylls the use of chlorophyll c2 has thus been verified to be effective for preventing or treating allergic symptoms as of pollinosis and osteoarthritis both involving the degranulation reaction.

The rat basophile derived cell line RBL 2H3 diluted to the same concentration as in Example 1 was dispensed on a 96 well culture plate in a volume of 0.1 ml well and cultured overnight at 37 C. under conditions of 5 COand 100 humidity. After removing the culture supernatant the cell surfaces were washed with 1 ml well of PBS and then an MT buffer containing an authentic sample of chlorophyll c2 at the same concentrations by dry weight as in Example 1 was added in a volume of 100 l well and incubation was conducted for 40 minutes at 37 C. under conditions of 5 COand 100 humidity. To a control group that would not undergo suppression of the degranulation reaction an MT buffer containing 0.5 ethanol was added. After 40 min incubation WST 1 reagent product of DOJINDO was added in a volume of 10 g ml and the mixture was incubated for 30 minutes at 37 C. under conditions of 5 COand 100 humidity. After the end of incubation the mixture was left to stand at room temperature for 10 minutes and then the absorbance at 450 nm was measured to evaluate the percent cell survival.

The result is shown in obviously none of the cell groups treated with the authentic sample of chlorophyll c2 experienced a drop in percent cell survival and it was verified that the degranulation suppressing activity of chlorophyll c2 as demonstrated in Example 1 is not due to cytotoxicity.

As noted hereinabove chlorophyll c is known to be abundant in algae such as those of the Division Dinoflagellata the Division Cryptophyta the Division Heterokontophyta including the Class Chrysophyceae the Class Raphidophyceae the Class Phaeophyceae the Class Bacillariophyceae Diatomea and the Class Eustigmatophyceae as well as the Division Haptophyta. Hence from among chlorophyll c containing algae Turner which is readily available and which has been part of people s dietary life was particularly selected for the purpose of concentrating chlorophyll c in a convenient and inexpensive way by removing salts polysaccharides and other non chlorophyll c water soluble and water insoluble impurities the alga was washed under stirring for 3 minutes using 15 volumes of water and after repeating the same washing operation three times the alga was dried overnight under the condition of 25 C. and ground with a mill to remove any unwanted matter that was not chlorophyll c whereby a dry powder of the brown alga Turner was obtained as a concentrated form of chlorophyll c.

For the purpose of concentrating chlorophyll c even further the thus produced dry powder of the brown alga Turner as a concentrated form of chlorophyll c was subjected to extraction with stirring overnight under the condition of 25 C. the extraction solvent was water or 20 or 40 or 60 or 80 hydrous ethanol or 100 ethanol whose volume was 15 times the dry weight of the powder. After the extraction suction filtration was performed to remove the insoluble matter and the resulting extract was rotary evaporated to dryness.

The extracts thus evaporated to dryness were evaluated for the degranulation suppressing activity using the rat basophile derived cell line RBL 2113 as in Example 1. The results are shown in obviously the extract prepared using water was found to have no degranulation suppressing activity at all and only the extracts prepared using 60 80 hydrous ethanol or 100 ethanol were found to have the activity of interest which was strongest in the extract prepared using 80 hydrous ethanol. It was therefore verified that using 60 80 hydrous ethanol or 100 ethanol is effective for efficient extraction of chlorophyll c and that chlorophyll c can be extracted most efficiently when 80 hydrous ethanol is used thus from the dry powder of the brown alga Turner as a concentrated form of chlorophyll c extracts as a highly concentrated form of chlorophyll c were prepared using hydrous ethanol.

For the purpose of concentrating chlorophyll c still further the 80 hydrous ethanol extract characterized by most efficient extraction of chlorophyll c from the dry powder of the brown alga Turner as a concentrated form of chlorophyll c was subjected to phase separation using n butanol and water and the resulting n butanol fraction was subjected to further phase separation using hexane and 90 hydrous methanol. The resulting 90 hydrous methanol fraction was fractionated on a silica gel column product of YAMAZEN CORPORATION and the same fraction procedure was repeated three times. The resulting concentrated fraction of chlorophyll c was loaded on an ODS column product of Waters eluted on a gradient using a 45 aqueous acetonitrile solution and 100 acetonitrile and fractionated by HPLC involving peak identification based on the absorbance at a wavelength of 254 nm to yield eleven fractions A to K. The resulting fractions were subjected to a test for evaluating degranulation suppressing activity using the rat basophile derived cell line RBL 2H3 as in Example 1 the results are shown in and only Fr. J was found to have the evaluating degranulation suppressing activity. The photo of verified that the active fraction Fr. J had been purified to a single band Fr. J and an authentic sample of chlorophyll c2 product of DHI were measured for the absorbance at 450 nm by HPLC as shows Fr. J and the authentic sample of chlorophyll c2 were found to have the same peak at a retention time of about 4.6 minutes in addition as shows Fr. J and the authentic sample of chlorophyll c2 both dissolved in an aqueous acetonitrile solution had an identical absorption spectrum with these results taken together Fr. J was identified as chlorophyll c2 thus the 80 hydrous ethanol extract of chlorophyll c from the dry powder of the brown alga Turner as a concentrated form of chlorophyll c could be processed by the sequence of those operations to prepare an even mroe purified form of chlorophyll c2.

Chlorophyll c1 or c3 which had heretofore been entirely unknown to have the degranulation suppressing action were evaluated for the degranulation suppressing activity as in Example 1. The result is shown in obviously the groups respectively treated with an authentic sample of chlorophyll c1 prepared from a brown alga by referring to Non Patent Document 12 for example or an authentic sample of c3 product of DHI were found to exhibit the degranulation suppressing activity as did chlorophyll c2 which was verified to have the same activity in Example 1. It was therefore clear that not only chlorophyll c2 which was verified to be active in Example 1 but also chlorophyll c1 and c3 alike has an activity for suppressing degranulation which has heretofore been entirely unknown in chlorophylls the use of either type of chlorophyll c was thus verified to be effective for preventing or treating allergic symptoms as of pollinosis and osteoarthritis both involving the degranulation reaction.

Chlorophyll c1 and c3 were subjected to a test for evaluating the percent cell survival using the rat basophile derived cell line RBL 2H3 as in Example 2. The result is shown in obviously neither the cell group treated with the authentic sample of chlorophyll c1 nor the cell group treated with the authentic sample of chlorophyll c3 was recognized to experience a drop in the percent cell survival the groups verifying that the degranulation suppressing activity of chlorophyll c1 or c3 which was demonstrated in Example 4 is not due to cytotoxicity.

To five week old SD male rats acclimatized for a week a feed consisting of documented formula blend AIN 76 product of Oriental Yeast and 3 wt or 1 wt of the dry powder of the brown alga Turner as a concentrated form of chlorophyll c which was prepared in Example 3 was given ad libitum for 28 days. To another group of similarly acclimatized five week old SD male rats a feed consisting of documented formula blend AIN 76 and 1.1 wt of the 80 hydrous ethanol extract of the brown alga Turner which was also prepared in Example 3 was given ad libitum for 28 days. To a control group only documented formula blend AIN 76 was given ad libitum for 28 days. Each of these SD male rats which were given the respective feeds ad libitum for 28 days was injected with Evans blue dye into the tail vein. The animals were then injected intradermally at the back with Compound 48 80 a drug for invoking degranulation mediated vascular permeation. After cervical dislocation under anesthesia the dorsal skin of each animal was peeled and the amount of Evans blue dye penetrating the peeled skin tissue was quantified by measuring the absorbance at 620 nm with a plate reader. From the quantified amounts of Evans blue dye the percent vascular permeability was calculated as the relative amount of Evans blue dye penetrating the subcutaneous tissue of each SD male rat on test feed with the amount of Evans blue dye penetrating the subcutaneous tissue of each SD male rat in the control group being taken as 100 . The results are shown in obviously the groups to which the feeds containing 1 wt or 3 wt of the dry powder of the brown alga Turner as a concentrated form of chlorophyll c were given ad libitum for 28 days as well as the group to which the feed containing 1.1 wt of the extract of the brown alga Turner was given ad libitum for 28 days were suppressed in vascular permeation as compared with the control group. It was therefore clear that in the in vivo test too oral ingestion of the dry powder of the brown alga Turner as a concentrated form of chlorophyll c or the 80 hydrous ethanol extract of the brown alga hormeri Turner both being prepared in Example 3 were able to suppress degranulation mediated vascular permeation thus proving effective for preventing or treating allergic diseases such as pollinosis in which vascular permeation is involved.

Four week old C57BL 6 male mice product of Charles River Laboratories Japan were acclimatized for a week. To a group of these animals 2 g kg of the dry powder of the brown alga Turner as a concentrated form of chlorophyll c which was prepared in Example 3 was orally administered in a repeased dose and forced manner for 4 weeks as suspended in a 0.5 CMC solution. To another group of the animals 0.2 g kg or 1 g kg of the 80 hydrous ethanol extract of an even more concentrated form of chlorophyll c from the brown alga Turner which was also prepared in Example 3 was orally administered in the same manner for 4 weeks as suspended in a 0.5 CMC solution. To a control group only a 0.5 CMC solution was orally administered in the same manner for 4 weeks. To yet another group of the animals drug administered group Olopatadine product of SIMGA a pharmaceutical showing a pollinosis suppressing effect by the degranulation suppressing action was orally administered in the same manner for 4 weeks as suspended in a 0.5 CMC solution. After the 4 week oral administration in a repeased dose and forced manner a solution having anti DNP IgE dissolved in physiological saline at a concentration of 50 g ml was injected into the hip vein of each mouse for passive sensitization. Five days after the sensitization DNP OVA antigen as dissolved in physiological saline at a concentration of 50 mg ml was administered into both nostrils of each mouse to invoke a rhinitic symptom and the symptom of the developed pollinosis was evaluated by counting how many times each rat scratched its nose per hour on account of the pollinosis symptom. The results are shown in obviously the group that ingested 2 g kg of the dry powder of the brown alga Turner as a concentrated form of chlorophyll c which was prepared in Example 3 as well as the group that ingested 1 g kg or 0.2 g kg of the 80 hydrous ethanol extract of an even more concentrated form of chlorophyll c from the brown alga Turner which was also prepared in Example 3 scratched their nose less frequently than the control group and both the dry powder and the extract were comparable in potency to the drug Olopatadine. It was therefore clear that oral ingestion of the dry powder of the brown alga Turner as a concentrated form of chlorophyll c or the 80 hydrous ethanol extract of the brown alga Turner both being prepared in Example 3 were able to suppress vascular permeation which was verified in Example 6 to result from the degranulation reaction thereby suppressing the symptom of pollinosis to prove effective for preventing or treating allergic rhinitis such as pollinosis.

Six groups of eight week old DA Slc female rats product of SANKYO LABO SERVICE CORPORATION that had been acclimatized for a week were allowed to ingest ad libitum the following feeds respectively for 4 weeks a feed consisting of formula blend CRF 1 product of Oriental Yeast and 3 wt of the dry powder of the brown alga Turner as a concentrated form of chlorophyll c which was prepared in Example 3 a feed consisting of formula blend CRF 1 and 2 wt of glucosamine product of Yaizu Suisankagaku Industry a feed consisting of formula blend CRF 1 and 5 wt of edible chondroitin sulfate designated as SCP NB product of Maruha Nichiro Foods a feed consisting of formula blend CRF 1 and 3 wt of the dry powder of the brown alga Turner as a concentrated form of chlorophyll c which was prepared in Example 3 plus 2 wt of glucosamine a feed consisting of formula blend CRF 1 and 3 wt of the dry powder of the brown alga Turner as a concentrated form of chlorophyll c which was prepared in Example 3 plus 5 wt of SCP NB and formula blend CRF 1 only control group . After the four week ingestion ad libitum bovine type II collagen in solution product of Collagen Gijutsu Kenshukai which was an arthrosis invoking substance was injected intradermally at four sites of the lumbar portion of the back at a dose of 0.15 mg to thereby invoke osteroarthritis. Thereafter each animal was visually checked for the state of the footpad of its right and left hind paw and the developed arthrosis was evaluated by scoring against the criteria listed in Table 1 below. The results are shown in obviously the rats that were allowed to ingest ad libitum the feed consisting of formula blend CRF 1 and 3 wt of the dry powder of the brown alga Turner as a concentrated form of chlorophyll c which was prepared in Example 3 had lower arthrosis scores than the rats of the control group. It was also shown that the effectiveness of this feed was quite potent and more than comparable to that observed in the group that was allowed to ingest ad libitum the feeds consisting of formula blend CRF 1 and glucosamine or SCP NB which are conventionially used to prevent or treat osteoarthritis. Moreover the dry powder of the brown alga Turner as a concentrated form of chlorophyll c which was prepared in Example 3 was verified to be more potent in suppressing osteoarthritis when it was ingested together with glucosamine or SCP NB than when the feed consisting of formula blend CRF 1 and glucosamine or SCP NB only was ingested ad libitum. From these results it became clear that osteoarthritis can be suppressed by ingesting the dry powder of the brown alga Turner as a concentrated form of chlorophyll c which was prepared in Example 3. It also became clear that a more potent osteoarthritis suppressing action is exhibited by using the conventional osteoarthritis suppressor glucosamine or SCP NB in combination with the dry powder of the brown alga Turner as a concentrated form of chlorophyll c which was prepared in Example 3.

