---

title: Coordinated dynamic point selection (DPS) with cell range expansion in a coordinated multipoint (CoMP) system
abstract: Technology for mitigating edge effect interference in a Coordinated MultiPoint (CoMP) system having multiple CoMP clusters is disclosed. In an example, a method can include a macro node transmitting a cell range expansion request to user equipments (UEs) within a cell. A CoMP cluster for nodes within the cell that includes UEs operating with the cell range expansion can be generated. Blanked resources between a plurality of macro nodes for the CoMP clusters in the CoMP system can be coordinated using a muting preference including a blanked resource.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09231723&OS=09231723&RS=09231723
owner: INTEL CORPORATION
number: 09231723
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121221
---
This application claims the benefit of and hereby incorporates by reference U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 646 223 filed May 11 2012.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a node e.g. a transmission station or a transceiver node and a wireless device e.g. a mobile device . Some wireless devices communicate using orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA in a downlink DL transmission and single carrier frequency division multiple access SC FDMA in an uplink UL transmission. Standards and protocols that use orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM for signal transmission include the third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.16 standard e.g. 802.16e 802.16m which is commonly known to industry groups as WiMAX Worldwide interoperability for Microwave Access and the IEEE 802.11 standard which is commonly known to industry groups as WiFi.

In 3GPP radio access network RAN LTE systems the node can be a combination of Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN Node Bs also commonly denoted as evolved Node Bs enhanced Node Bs eNodeBs or eNBs and Radio Network Controllers RNCs which communicate with the wireless device known as a user equipment UE . The downlink DL transmission can be a communication from the node e.g. eNodeB to the wireless device e.g. UE and the uplink UL transmission can be a communication from the wireless device to the node.

In homogeneous networks the node also called a macro node can provide basic wireless coverage to wireless devices in a cell. The cell can be the area in which the wireless devices are operable to communicate with the macro node. Heterogeneous networks HetNets can be used to handle the increased traffic loads on the macro nodes due to increased usage and functionality of wireless devices. HetNets can include a layer of planned high power macro nodes or macro eNBs overlaid with layers of lower power nodes small eNBs micro eNBs pico eNBs femto eNBs or home eNBs HeNBs that can be deployed in a less well planned or even entirely uncoordinated manner within the coverage area cell of a macro node. The lower power nodes LPNs can generally be referred to as low power nodes small nodes or small cells.

The macro node can be used for basic coverage. The low power nodes can be used to fill coverage holes to improve capacity in hot zones or at the boundaries between the macro nodes coverage areas and improve indoor coverage where building structures impede signal transmission. Inter cell interference coordination ICIC or enhanced ICIC eICIC may be used for resource coordination to reduce interference between the nodes such as macro nodes and low power nodes in a HetNet.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular examples only and is not intended to be limiting. The same reference numerals in different drawings represent the same element. Numbers provided in flow charts and processes are provided for clarity in illustrating steps and operations and do not necessarily indicate a particular order or sequence.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Heterogeneous networks HetNets can be used to handle increased traffic demands from wireless data traffic. The low power nodes LPNs can be deployed in the macro cell e.g. macro node coverage area to offload the traffic from macro node to LPNs. Where macro nodes and LPNs may use the same frequency bandwidth different techniques e.g. LTE Advanced systems and process can be used to improve the spectrum efficiency. Spectral efficiency SE spectrum efficiency or bandwidth efficiency refers to the information rate that can be transmitted over a given bandwidth in a specific communication system. SE can be a measure of how efficiently a limited frequency spectrum is utilized by a physical layer protocol and sometimes by a media access control a channel access protocol .

One of the techniques to improve the spectrum efficiency can be enhanced inter cell interference coordination eICIC . A network can support frequency domain inter cell interference coordination ICIC or time domain enhanced ICIC eICIC . In an example ICIC can be used to decrease interference between neighboring cells or nodes by lowering the power of a part of the subchannels in the frequency domain which then can be received close to the node. The subchannels do not interfere with the same subchannels used in neighboring cells and thus data can be sent to wireless devices that are close to the cell with less interference on these subchannels.

Enhanced ICIC eICIC is another ICIC technique used in the time domain for heterogeneous networks HetNets where a high power macro cell can be complemented with low power nodes such as pico cells hotspots in shopping centers or at airports or femto cells hotspots in small areas such as homes or businesses . The low power nodes can exist inside a macro cell coverage area. The macro cell can transmit long range high power signals and the low power nodes can transmit low power signals over short distances. In an example to mitigate interference between the macro cell and the several low power nodes located within the macro cell coverage area eICIC can coordinate the blanking of subframes in the time domain in the macro cell by using almost blank subframes. As used herein a cell can refer to the node e.g. eNB configured to communicate with wireless devices within a geographic region that is referred to as a cell coverage area. As used herein a pico cell can refer to any lower power node or the cell coverage area of the LPN.

Enhanced ICIC can be used to increase LPN s coverage using cell range expansion CRE by applying a bias value on LPN s measured reference signal received power RSRP when making a cell association decision. Then some of the macro UEs can be offloaded to the pico cells.

For example illustrates a heterogeneous network HetNet with a first high power macro node A or macro eNB with a first backhaul communication link A with a first lower power node A micro eNBs pico eNBs femto eNBs home eNBs HeNBs remote radio head RRH or relay node . The HetNet can include a second high power macro node B or macro eNB with a second backhaul communication link B with a second lower power node B micro eNBs pico eNBs femto eNBs home eNBs HeNBs remote radio head RRH or relay node . The backhaul communication link can be a wired wireless or optical fiber connection. The backhaul communication link may use X2 signaling. The backhaul communication link can be used to apply interference mitigation or signal coordination between the macro node and the LPNs in a coordination set. HetNets can be used to optimize performance particularly for unequal user or traffic distribution and improve spectral efficiency per unit area of a cell. HetNets can also achieve significantly improved overall capacity and cell edge performance.

The HetNet and homogeneous network can include regular planned placement of macro nodes A and B that can typically transmit at high power level for example approximately 5 watts W to 40 W to cover the macro cell A and B. The HetNet can be overlaid with low power nodes LPNs A and B which may transmit at substantially lower power levels such as approximately 100 milliwatts mW to 2 W.

A LPN A or B can have a standard cell range A or B or inner cell range or a cell range expansion A or B or cell range extension edge cell range or cell edge range . Due to the closer proximity of the wireless device to the LPN the wireless device within the standard cell range of the LPN may experience less interference from the macro node and other sources than a wireless device within the cell range extension but outside the standard cell range. The standard cell coverage or range or center cell range can represent an area in space a geographic area near the transmitting station where the transmission power and signal can be strong and a co channel interference can be minimal. A cell range expansion CRE can be area near to the boundary of the cell where the transmission power and signal is weaker than a signal in the standard cell and the co channel interference can be more significant. In an example the first macro node A can generate a cell range expansion in the first LPN A and the second LPN node by requesting that wireless devices within the first macro node s coverage area perform biasing such as RS biasing.

The cell range expansion of LPNs can be due to RS biasing requested by the macro nodes. RS biasing can apply an offset to the RS measurements allowing a LPN with a signal strength weaker than the macro node to associate with the wireless device. In an example the RS biasing can have a range greater than 0 dB to about 6 dB. In another example the RS biasing can have a range greater than 0 dB to about 16 dB.

Association or handover biasing can be an effective means to achieve the load balancing in non uniform heterogeneous network deployments. The load balancing can be provided by coverage or range expansion at LPNs low transmission power nodes . The range expansion can be virtually achieved by biasing of the wireless device association metric for LPNs by some value which may be signaled from the macro node to the wireless device via higher layers such as radio resource control RRC signaling. The wireless device association metric can include a reference signal received power RSRP or a reference signal received quality RSRQ . The load balancing can introduce severe interference conditions for wireless devices located in the range expansion zone. In order to provide reasonable throughput performance for such wireless devices interference mitigation schemes such as DL eICIC or coordinated multipoint CoMP transmission can be applied at the macro node e.g. an overlay high transmission power node or aggressor node .

The association can refer to the wireless device s direct wireless communication with a node either a macro node or LPN. A re association can include transferring a wireless device s direct wireless communication from one node to another node. The both nodes in the re association may be within a coordination set such as a CoMP cluster or the nodes in the re association may be in different coordination sets e.g. CoMP cluster . A handover can refer to a transfer of the wireless device s direct wireless communication from a first node in a first coordination set to a second node in a second coordination set.

In an example association biasing may not account for interference mitigation scheme parameters such as a CoMP cluster. In particular association biasing applied at the wireless device for LPNs regardless of the CoMP cluster that the LPNs belong to can reduce the effectiveness of the interference mitigation such as DL eICIC or CoMP transmission. The coordination set or CoMP cluster can be defined as a set of nodes connected with each other via backhaul link and performing coordinated transmissions.

In some cases association biasing and hence range expansion of LPNs may be applied to LPNs within the macro node s coordination set without applying association biasing to LPNs outside the macro node s coordination set to maintain an improved performance of the wireless devices after the re association with the LPNs.

Additionally in order to allow pico cell to serve offloaded macro UEs including macro UEs offloaded due to CRE without experiencing harsh interference from the macro cell macro cells can mute or blank the transmission some of the physical resources such as subframes. illustrates muting or blanking some of the subframes of the macro cell during the LPN subframes such as a wireless devices operating outside the standard cell coverage area but within a CRE coverage area. For example subframes 1 3 5 or 7 approximately half of the subframes at the macro node or in the macro cells can be muted. The data transmissions e.g. data subframes sf by the LPN during the muted subframes e.g. non data subframe of the macro node can be received by the LPN s UEs with less interference than data transmissions by the LPN during subframes with macro node transmissions e.g. subframes 2 4 or 6 .

Both the x axis and the y axis of are measured in meters m . The SINR can be measured in decibels dB . A decibel dB is a logarithmic unit that indicates the ratio of a physical quantity usually power or intensity relative to a specified or implied reference level. A ratio in decibels is ten times the logarithm to base 10 of the ratio of two power quantities. A signal to noise and interference ratio SINR or signal to interference ratio S I or SIR also known as the carrier to interference ratio C I CIR refers to the quotient between the average received modulated carrier power S or C and the average received co channel interference power I i.e. cross talk from other transmitters than the useful signal.

Another technique which can be used to improve the spectrum efficiency in HetNet is coordinated multi point CoMP transmission. Dynamic point selection DPS is one kind of CoMP technique. In CoMP techniques one joint scheduler can schedule multiple neighboring cells within a CoMP cluster. The joint scheduling decision can account for inter cell interference within the CoMP cluster. Thus the spectrum efficiency can be improved compared to making scheduling decision for each cell independently.

A Coordinated MultiPoint CoMP system can be used to reduce interference from neighboring nodes in both homogeneous networks e.g. LTE CoMP scenarios 1 and 2 and HetNets LTE CoMP scenarios 3 and 4 . CoMP operation can apply to downlink transmissions and uplink transmissions. Downlink CoMP operation can be divided into two categories coordinated scheduling or coordinated beamforming CS CB or CS CBF and joint processing or joint transmission JP JT . With CS CB a given subframe can be transmitted from one cell to a given wireless device e.g. UE and the scheduling including coordinated beamforming is dynamically coordinated between the cells in order to control and or reduce the interference between different transmissions. For joint processing joint transmission can be performed by multiple cells to a wireless device e.g. UE in which multiple nodes transmit at the same time using the same time and frequency radio resources and or dynamic cell selection DCS . Joint processing JP can include dynamic point selection DPS dynamic point blanking DPB or dynamic cell selection DCS .

Uplink CoMP operation can be divided into two categories joint reception JR and coordinated scheduling and beamforming CS CB . With JR a physical uplink shared channel PUSCH transmitted by the wireless device e.g. UE can be received jointly at multiple points at a time frame. The set of the multiple points can constitute the CoMP reception point RP set and can be included in part of UL CoMP cooperating set or in an entire UL CoMP cooperating set. JR can be used to improve the received signal quality. In CS CB user scheduling and precoding selection decisions can be made with coordination among points corresponding to the UL CoMP cooperating set. With CS CB PUSCH transmitted by the UE can be received at one point.

Referring to DL CoMP the DPS can be used together with dynamic point blanking DPB to achieve an offloading effect in a same CoMP cluster similar to eICIC. In a DPS DPB case each joint scheduler can select between two states when making the scheduling decision. A first state can be that only LPNs in the CoMP cluster are transmitting data and the macro node is muted. A second state can be that both the LPNs and the macro are transmitting data. In an example the two states can be represented by a single bit for a physical resource e.g. subframe . Since an offloading effect for CoMP transmission can be more dynamic than eICIC in an example the spectrum efficiency can be further improved within the CoMP cluster especially when the traffic load is dynamic. A CoMP system can provide dynamic offloading of less than 50 milliseconds ms e.g. between 10 ms and 50 ms and can have a relatively high backhaul traffic load between nodes in the CoMP system as compared to eICIC . Enhanced ICIC can provide semi static offloading of greater than 500 ms e.g. 640 ms and can have a low backhaul traffic load as compared to the CoMP system .

In an example a DPS DPB used in CoMP transmission can operate less efficiently compared with eICIC due to an offloading effect or edge effect. For example DPS DPB may offload dynamically between macro nodes and LPNs within a CoMP cluster but DPS DPB in which no CRE is applied to the LPNs when UE is doing cell association may not offload between a macro and an LPN of two neighboring CoMP clusters without severe interference from neighboring CoMP clusters which can be referred to as the offloading effect or edge effect. In this example the offloading or offloading effect may only be possible within one CoMP cluster. The edge effect can affect the UEs on the edge of a CoMP cluster neighboring other CoMP clusters. In an example the edge effect without CRE between neighboring CoMP clusters can downgrade the DPS DPB performance and cause the CoMP system spectrum efficiency SE to be worse than eICIC.

To maintain an advantage achieved by dynamic offloading within CoMP cluster over eICIC without suffering from an edge effect caused by CoMP clustering various techniques can be used such as CRE between neighboring CoMP clusters and coordinating a muting preference.

For example cell range expansion can be used before determining the UEs and or nodes in the CoMP cluster. For instance a UE can first select one serving cell from the macro and LPNs where the coverage of the LPNs is expanded by a cell range expansion bias e.g. 9 dB for a RSRP . CRE before assigning UEs to a CoMP cluster can avoid or mitigate the edge effect. In another example a LPN in a first CoMP cluster can offload traffic from a macro belonging to a neighboring CoMP cluster e.g. second CoMP cluster . The CRE for CoMP can be configured semi statically.

During scheduling of CoMP transmission e.g. DPS each joint scheduler used by each CoMP cluster can make resource allocations for the UEs attached to the cells belonging to the CoMP cluster. In an example a macro node can include the joint scheduler. If a UE is offloaded from a macro in first CoMP cluster to a LPN in a neighboring CoMP cluster e.g. second CoMP cluster the UE can be scheduled by the neighboring CoMP cluster instead of the first CoMP cluster which originally served the UE via the macro node of the first CoMP cluster without the CRE.

Since scheduling decision of each CoMP cluster can be made independently by the CoMP cluster s joint scheduler a pico UE i.e. a UE in a pico cell can experience harsh interference from a neighboring CoMP cluster s macro cell. Coordinating the DPB resources over a backhaul link such as X2 interface between two CoMP clusters can be used to mitigate the interference from the neighboring CoMP cluster s macro cell. The coordination of the DPB resources can align at least some of the blanked resources for macro cells so the pico UEs that are offloaded from a first CoMP cluster to a second CoMP cluster may not experience harsh interference from the neighbor CoMP cluster s macro cell. The coordination of the DPB resources can include sending e.g. transmitting receiving or exchanging a muting preference. The muting preference includes a resource map where the resource map includes a bit array a bitmap a bitset a bitstring a data array a list a string or a table where each element of the resource map can represent a blanked or muted resource e.g. subframe . In an example a first CoMP cluster can transmit the muting preference to the second CoMP cluster and the second CoMP cluster can move the blanked resources for second CoMP cluster to match or align at least one blank resource with the muting preference of the first CoMP cluster. The macro node of the first CoMP cluster can operate as a master macro node relative to the muting preference and the macro node of the second CoMP cluster can operate as a slave macro node relative to the muting preference which can adjust based on the muting preference of the master macro node.

In the frequency domain the muting preference can have one resource block group RBG granularity. An RBG can be a set of consecutive PRBs in frequency. The RBG size P can be a function of the downlink system bandwidth N. The RBG size P can be the number of physical resource blocks PRBs within a RBG. In an example the total number of RBGs Nfor downlink system bandwidth of Nis given by N N P . For a downlink system bandwidth of 10 PRBs or less e.g. 1.4 MHz the RBG size P can be one PRB per RBG. For a downlink system bandwidth of 11 26 PRBs e.g. 3 or 5 MHz the RBG size P can be two PRBs per RBG. For a downlink system bandwidth of 27 63 PRBs e.g. 10 MHz the RBG size P can be three PRBs per group. For a downlink system bandwidth of 64 110 PRBs e.g. 15 or 20 MHz the RBG size P can be four PRBs per RBG.

In an example the muting preference signaling can be included in an X2 application protocol such as LTE 3GPP Technical Specification TS 36.423 V11.2.0 2012 09 .

Compared with a conventional eICIC scheme the CoMP system using a muting preference for inter CoMP cluster coordination can have a CoMP joint scheduling gain within a CoMP cluster without suffering from the edge effect between two neighboring CoMP clusters. In addition offloading using CRE can be used to offload a UE from LPN e.g. pico node or pico cell in a first CoMP cluster to a macro node in a neighboring CoMP cluster e.g. second CoMP cluster . In an example of CRE the UE can select a cell with a highest biased RSRP and the UE can be scheduled by a CoMP cluster which includes highest biased RSRP for the UE. The uncoordinated inter CoMP cluster interference can be mitigated via a relatively slow X2 interface through exchanging muting preference e.g. once every second . In an example the muting preference can be transmitted received or exchanged in a range between 500 ms and 10 seconds which can reduce traffic loading of a backhaul link while maintaining a high spectral efficiency SE and a high scheduling gain.

Another example provides a method for mitigating edge effect interference in a Coordinated MultiPoint CoMP system having multiple CoMP clusters as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine or computer circuitry where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. The method includes the operation of transmitting from a macro node a cell range expansion request to user equipments UEs within a cell as in block . The operation of generating a CoMP cluster from at least one of the macro node or a neighboring macro node for nodes within the cell that includes UEs operating with the cell range expansion follows as in block . The next operation of the method can be coordinating blanked resources from at least one of the macro node or the neighboring macro node between a plurality of macro nodes for the CoMP clusters in the CoMP system using a muting preference including a blanked resource as in block .

The operation of transmitting the cell range expansion request can further include Sending the cell range expansion request for a UE to apply a cell range expansion bias wherein the UE is adjacent to a receptor cell low power node LPN in a neighboring cell and coordinating at the macro node an handover of the UE from macro node to the receptor cell LPN based on the cell range expansion applied by the UE. In an example the cell range expansion bias can uses a specified reference signal RS biasing having a range greater than 0 decibel dB to about 16 dB. The UE can measure an LPN RS to generate an LPN RS measurement including a reference signal received power RSRP or a reference signal received quality RSRQ .

In another example the operation of coordinating the blanked resources can further include sending from the macro node to a neighboring macro node in a neighboring CoMP cluster a muting preference including the blanked resource of the macro node. The muting preference enables the neighboring macro node to reschedule the blanked resource for the neighboring CoMP cluster based on the muting preference of the macro node which can align the blanked resource of the neighboring CoMP cluster to the CoMP cluster including the macro node. The alignment of the blanked resource enables the blanked resource to have a same frequency domain index and a same time domain index for both the neighboring CoMP cluster and the CoMP cluster.

In another configuration the operation of coordinating the blanked resources can further include Receiving at the macro node from a neighboring macro node in a neighboring CoMP cluster a muting preference including the blanked resource for the neighboring macro node and rescheduling the blanked resource at the macro node based on the muting preference of the neighboring macro node of a neighboring CoMP cluster which can align the blanked resource of the CoMP cluster including the macro node to the neighboring CoMP cluster. The blanked resource can have a one subframe granularity in a time domain or a one resource block group RBG granularity in a frequency domain.

The operation of coordinating the blanked resources can use X2 signaling or backhaul link signaling via a wired connection a wireless connection or an optical fiber connection. The operation of coordinating the blanked resources can use one bit to represent one subframe where the one bit indicates each blanked resource or transmission resource for the subframe. In another example the muting preference includes a resource map where the resource map includes a bit array a bitmap a bitset a bitstring a data array a list a string or a table. The muting preference can be transmitted with a periodicity of at least 500 milliseconds ms such as 640 ms.

In an example the method can further include scheduling resources for data transmission for a low power node LPN with the macro node muted or for both the LPN and the macro node using dynamic point selection DPS or dynamic point blanking DPB . The nodes in the cell can include a base station BS a Node B NB an evolved Node B eNB a baseband unit BBU a remote radio head RRH a remote radio equipment RRE or a remote radio unit RRU .

Another example provides a method for inter Coordinated MultiPoint CoMP system cell range expansion in a heterogeneous network HetNet as shown in the flow chart in . The method may be executed as instructions on a machine or computer circuitry where the instructions are included on at least one computer readable medium or one non transitory machine readable storage medium. A user equipment UE operable for inter Coordinated MultiPoint CoMP system cell range expansion in a heterogeneous network HetNet can have computer circuitry to perform the method . The computer circuitry can be configured to receive a request from a node in a donor CoMP cluster to apply a specified reference signal RS biasing to a low power node LPN RS measurement for a cell range expansion as in block . The computer circuitry can be further configured to apply the specified RS biasing to a LPN RS measurement derived from an LPN RS received from an LPN in a receptor CoMP cluster as in block . The computer circuitry can also be configured to associate with the LPN in the receptor CoMP cluster when the LPN RS measurement with the specified RS biasing exceeds an association threshold as in block .

In an example the computer circuitry can be further configured to communicate with the LPN in the receptor CoMP cluster during a muted transmission of a macro node in the donor CoMP cluster. The muted transmission of the macro node in the donor CoMP cluster can align with a muted transmission of a macro node in the receptor CoMP cluster based on a muting preference of one of the macro node in the donor CoMP cluster and the macro node in the receptor CoMP cluster transmitted to the other of the receptor CoMP cluster and the donor CoMP cluster. For example the muting preference can be transmitted from the macro node in the donor CoMP cluster to the macro node in the receptor CoMP cluster or the muting preference can be transmitted from the macro node in the receptor CoMP cluster to the macro node in the donor CoMP cluster. The muted transmission can include at least one subframe transmission in a time domain or at least one resource block group RBG transmission in a frequency domain.

The LPN RS measurement can include a measurement including a reference signal received power RSRP or a reference signal received quality RSRQ . The specified RS biasing can have a range greater than 0 decibel dB to about 16 dB. In an example the computer circuitry configured to associate with the LPN in the receptor CoMP cluster can be further configured to associate with the LPN in the receptor CoMP cluster when the LPN RS measurement with the specified RS biasing exceeds a donor CoMP cluster macro node RS measurement by a predetermined amount.

In another example the computer circuitry configured to associate with the LPN in the receptor CoMP cluster can be further configured to send a re association request to the node in the donor CoMP cluster requesting a handover to the LPN in the receptor CoMP cluster. The re association request can instruct a macro node in the donor CoMP cluster to offload communication with the UE to the LPN in the receptor CoMP cluster.

Each node A B and can include a node device A B and e.g. coordinating device . The coordinating device node device or the node can be configured to communicate with the wireless device. The coordinating device or node device can be configured for offloading a user equipment UE from a Coordinated MultiPoint CoMP cluster to a neighboring CoMP cluster. The coordinating device node device or the node can be configured to communicate with other nodes via a backhaul link and a wired connection a wireless connection or an optical fiber connection such as an X2 application protocol X2AP or X2 signaling.

Each node device A B and e.g. coordinating device can include a backhaul link transceiver A B and a scheduler A B e.g. joint scheduler a wireless transceiver A B and and a processor or processing module A B and . A transceiver module can include the backhaul link transceiver and the wireless transceiver. The backhaul link transceiver A B can be configured to communicate a muting preference via a backhaul link with a neighboring macro node B within a neighboring CoMP cluster different from a CoMP cluster A. The muting preference can include a blanked resource for physical resources of the macro node or the neighboring macro node.

The transceiver module e.g. wireless transceiver A B and of the node device A B and can be configured to Request a UE to use a cell range expansion bias and receive a re association request from the UE for the UE to associate with a low power node LPN in the neighboring CoMP cluster and offload traffic from the node. The transceiver module e.g. backhaul link transceiver A B and can be configured to transmit a muting preference including a scheduled blanked resource for the node to a neighboring macro node in the neighboring CoMP cluster to enable the neighboring macro node to align the blanked resource of the neighboring CoMP cluster to the CoMP cluster including the node.

In an example the transceiver module e.g. backhaul link transceiver A B and can be further configured to receive from a neighboring macro node in the neighboring CoMP cluster a muting preference including a scheduled blanked resource for the neighboring macro node. The processing module A B and can be configured to reschedule the blanked resource at the node based on the muting preference of the neighboring macro node to align the scheduled blanked resource of the CoMP cluster including the node to the neighboring macro node. The blanked resources or the scheduled blanked resource can include at least one subframe in a time domain or at least one resource block group RBG in a frequency domain.

In another example the transceiver module e.g. backhaul link transceiver A B and can be configured to receive the muting preference of blanked resources from the neighboring macro node using X2 signaling or backhaul link signaling via a wired connection a wireless connection or an optical fiber connection. The blanked resource can include a radio subframe a slot a frequency carrier a frequency subcarrier or a physical resource block PRB .

In another configuration the processing module A B and can be configured to Generate the CoMP cluster to include a neighboring UE formerly in the neighboring CoMP cluster where the neighboring UE is associated with the node or the CoMP cluster due to cell range expansion and apply dynamic point selection DPS or dynamic point blanking DPB in scheduling resources for the neighboring UE. In another example the scheduler A B can be configured to apply DPS or DPB in scheduling resources for the neighboring UE. The processing module can be configured to apply an enhanced inter cell interference coordination eICIC in the time domain for semi statically scheduling resources for the UE.

The transceiver module e.g. wireless transceiver A and B can be configured to communicate with a wireless device and receive a reference signal RS measurement from the wireless device. The wireless device e.g. UE can be in communication with the macro node A neighboring macro node B or the LPN and or receive interference from the neighboring macro node B. The wireless device can include a transceiver and a processing module . The transceiver of the wireless device can be configured to receive DL transmission information from the nodes and transmit UL transmission information to the nodes. The processing module can measure an LPN reference signal RS measurement and apply a specified RS biasing to the LPN RS measurement for a cell range expansion. The UL transmission information can include a RS measurement including a RSRP or a RSRQ.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives non transitory computer readable storage medium or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. Circuitry can include hardware firmware program code executable code computer instructions and or software. A non transitory computer readable storage medium can be a computer readable storage medium that does not include signal. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements may be a RAM EPROM flash drive optical drive magnetic hard drive solid state drive or other medium for storing electronic data. The node and wireless device may also include a transceiver module a counter module a processing module and or a clock module or timer module. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Reference throughout this specification to an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of layouts distances network examples etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components layouts etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

