---

title: Sharing software applications
abstract: In general, this disclosure describes techniques for providing a mechanism to manage referrals for applications shared over a social network service when granted permission by users of the social network service. For example, a server system receives a message including user association information and an indication of a software application, and publishes a post to a subset of users as indicated by the user association information. The server system also receives a request for a version of the software application from a second user and determines whether the post was re-shared by a third user. If the post was re-shared, the server system stores in a database of the computing system, a referral association between the third user, the second user, and the software application. If the post was not re-shared, the server system stores a referral association between the first user, the second user, and the software application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08554836&OS=08554836&RS=08554836
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08554836
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120604
---
Software application developers may distribute software applications e.g. games e readers productivity applications using an online store or physical retail store. However software application developers may have difficulty making users aware of the software applications without significant advertising which may cause some developers to rely upon word of mouth recommendations from users who purchased the software application. The users may recommend the software applications by word of mouth or other conventional communication methods without the software application developers being aware of the recommendations. More recently social network services have provided another mechanism by which users can recommend software applications. When users of the social network services elect to make posts publicly available the software application developers may be given more insight into who is recommending the software applications.

In one embodiment a method includes receiving by a server system and from a computing device associated with a first user a message that includes 1 user association information and 2 an indication of a software application executable by the computing device wherein the user association information identifies a subset of users and publishing by the server system a post to the subset of users indicated by the user association information wherein the post is based at least in part on the message. The method may also include receiving by the server system a request for a version of the software application from a second user who is a member of the subset of users determining whether the post was re shared by a third user and responsive to determining that the post was not re shared by the third user storing in a database of the server system a referral association between the first user the second user and the version of the software application. The method may further include responsive to determining that the post was re shared by the third user storing in the database a referral association between the third user the second user and the version of the software application.

In another embodiment a server system includes one or more computing devices a database and at least one application. The at least one application is operable to provide instructions to the one or more computing devices to receive from a computing device associated with a first user a message that includes 1 user association information and 2 an indication of a software application executable by the computing device wherein the user association information identifies a subset of users. The at least one application is also operable to provide instructions to the one or more server computers to publish a post to the subset of users indicated by the user association information wherein the post is based at least in part on the message receive one or more eligibility criteria receive a request for a version of the software application from a second user who is a member of the subset of users determine that the request for a version of the software application satisfies at least one eligibility criterion of the one or more eligibility criteria and determine whether the post was re shared by a third user. The at least one application is also operable to provide instructions to the one or more server computers to responsive to determining that the post was not re shared by the third user store in the database a referral association between the first user the second user and the version of the software application and responsive to determining that the post was re shared by the third user store in the database a referral association between the third user the second user and the version of the software application.

In another embodiment a computer readable storage medium is encoded with instructions that when executed cause one or more processors of a server system to perform operations that include receiving by the server system and from a computing device associated with a first user a message that includes 1 user association information and 2 an indication of a software application executable by the computing device wherein the user association information identifies a subset of users. The operations may further include publishing by the server system a post to the subset of users indicated by the user association information wherein the post is based at least in part on the message and receiving by the server system a request for a version of the software application from a second user who is a member of the subset of users. The operations may further include determining whether the post was re shared by a third user and responsive to determining that the post was not re shared by the third user storing in a database of the server system a referral association between the first user the second user and the version of the software application. The operations may also include responsive to determining that the post was re shared by the third user storing in the database a referral association between the third user the second user and the version of the software application

In another embodiment a method includes receiving by a server system requests for a version of a software application associated with a software application developer wherein each request is received via one of a plurality of referral sources identifying a first user that shared at least a portion of the plurality of referral sources each to a respective subset of users and identifying a second user that initiated at least one of the requests. The method further includes determining that for each request the second user is a member of the respective subset of users and providing to the application developer information about the first user the second user and the requests received via the portion of referral sources that are shared by the first user.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Given the number of applications available for various mobile platforms software application developers often have difficulty making potential customers aware of their applications. Typically a large percentage of applications are discovered from user recommendations. However recommendations are typically most useful if users can interact with their friends when the users are actually using and thinking about the application. Further software application developers do not currently have a way to track that a particular application install resulted from a recommendation. Because of the lack of referral management functionality developers may not be able to implement an effective referral incentive for their users.

Techniques of this disclosure provide a mechanism usable by software application developers to manage referrals and control referral incentives for applications shared over a social network service when granted permission by users of the social network service. For example developers may utilize an application programming interface API that leverages the user information and other resources of the social network service in accordance with techniques of this disclosure. The developer may incorporate the API into the application such that the application enables a user of the application to easily create a social network service post and share it to a selected audience. The post includes user created content e.g. a message from the user as well as developer created content e.g. a description of the application an image a link to the application etc. . When another user i.e. a user other than the one who generated the post selects the post the other user may be provided with a download link for the application. The download link may be for the same application or may be for a similar application. For example the download link may be for an updated version of the application or the same application executable by a different operating system. When the other person accesses the link downloads the application using the link and or installs the application using the link the social network service establishes a referral association between the two users. This referral association identifies the install of the application by a user as resulting from a referral by the user who originally generated the post on the social network service. The referral association may then be provided to the software application developers who may for example implement a referral reward program for users who generate installs based on referrals made by the users.

By leveraging the user authentication information and grouping provided by the social network service detailed referral information may be provided to developers e.g. demographic information the number of people who clicked on a link in the post about the application but did not install the application etc. . Further the developer may take advantage of the user authentication mechanisms provided by the social network service to restrict access to referral rewards programs. For example the social network service may provide the developer with the ability to limit the rewards programs to the people with whom the original post about the application was shared. As another example the social network service may provide a mechanism to limit promotions to a particular number of redemptions per authenticated user and may prevent unauthenticated users from redeeming a promotion.

Each of client devices and server system may be operatively coupled by network . Network may include wired or wireless networks or both. For example network may include a wide area network such as the Internet a local area network LAN a wireless local area network WLAN an enterprise network or one or more other types of networks. In some examples network may include one or more different networks. For instance client device and server system may communicate using a WLAN and client devices may communicate with server system using the Internet.

Examples of server system may include a personal computer a laptop computer a handheld computer a workstation a data storage system a supercomputer or a mainframe computer. A server system may execute with multiple processors may have functionality distributed across multiple machines etc. Server system may also execute as a virtual machine executing on underlying hardware which itself may be a single machine or multiple machines . Server system may also execute as a process or a set of processes on a cloud server or service.

Examples of client devices may include be or be part of a mobile computing device e.g. a mobile phone netbook laptop personal digital assistant PDA tablet computer portable gaming device portable media player e book reader or watch or other computing devices e.g. a desktop computer set top box or television with one or more processors attached thereto or embedded therein . Each of client devices may be the same or different types of devices. For example client device and client device A may both be mobile phones. In another example client device may be a mobile phone and client device A may be a desktop computer.

Client devices may include one or more input devices . Input devices may include keyboards pointing devices microphones presence sensitive screens and cameras capable of recording one or more images or video as non limiting examples. Client devices may also include one or more output devices e.g. output device of client device . Examples of output device may include a video graphics card computer display sound card presence sensitive screen and speakers.

Client device may include one or more software applications . Some of software applications e.g. application may include mobile or desktop computer applications such as social network service applications web based social network service interfaces or other methods of viewing and interacting with social network service content. Application may cause output device to display GUI . GUI may include graphical elements such as social network activity entries . Graphical elements may include any visually perceivable object that may be displayed in GUI . Examples of graphical elements may include a background image video feed text control buttons input fields or scroll bars. Social network activity entries correspond to user activity generated by other users within a social network of user . In other words user may be a member of one or more social network services and activity of other users of the social network services may be published to a user account of user at the social network services.

For example social network activity entry A includes user activity information generated by a user named John Doe e.g. user A . Social network activity entry A indicates that user A recommended a software application titled HppyFsh e.g. application A approximately four hours ago. Since the time at which social network activity entry A was published i.e. in the last four hours various users commended on social network activity entry A three times and no one 1 d the entry. As another example social network activity entry B includes user activity information generated by a user named Leah Cole e.g. user B . Social network activity entry B indicates that user B downloaded the software application titled HppyFsh upon user A s software application recommendation five minutes ago and one person 1 d her comment. In various instances user activity associated with user may also be included within GUI .

User activity information may be generated by applications similar to application . User activity information may also be generated using other applications e.g. applications . In some examples applications may automatically generate user activity information. For example user B may give application B permission to create social network activity entries without requiring user B to create or submit an entry. That is upon user B opting to allow automatic generation of user activity information software application B may generate user activity information in response to detecting a certain condition e.g. user B downloading software application B . In other examples software apps may enable users to personally create user activity information. That is user activity information may contain content authored both by a software application such as application A or B as well as by a user such as user A or B.

User activity may refer to downloading a software application using a software application promoting a software application to others sharing a software application rating a software application or otherwise interacting with a software application such as software apps . That is user activity information includes user interactions with software applications. In at least some implementations user activity information may comprise one or more of 1 a user identifier e.g. user name identification code etc. that identifies a user that performed the user activity 2 a software application identifier e.g. title developer name identification code etc. that identifies a software application associated with the user activity 3 an action identifier that identifies one or more actions e.g. download review purchase promote rate etc. performed with respect to the software application 4 a time identifier that identifies a time at which the one or more actions were performed 5 a platform identifier that identifies a type of device e.g. mobile phone desktop computer etc. utilized to perform the one or more actions 6 user association information e.g. whom the user intends to share the user activity with 7 other suitable information.

Software apps may have sharing modules A B collectively sharing modules . Sharing modules may enable software apps to interact with user activity server running on server system . For example sharing modules may enable users to associate their respective software apps with the users various social network service accounts i.e. by providing login credentials . Furthering this example users could then interact with software apps to allow user activity server to publish user activity information at one or more social network services and establish referral associations.

In some examples sharing modules may include a plug in for software apps . For example users may download sharing modules from server system or other source as a plug in for software apps . In other examples sharing modules and or software apps may reside at a server that is remote from client devices whereby users may operate client devices to interact with the remote software apps via network . Accordingly sharing modules may reside at any suitable location or combination of locations in a computing network. In at least some implementations sharing modules may include an application programming interface API that enables other computer applications or programs such as user activity server or other suitable resource to receive user activity information from sharing modules or to provide user association information to sharing modules .

User activity information generated by application A may be sent by sharing module A from client device A to server system . User activity server may publish the user activity information or a portion thereof at a social network service in accordance with the user association information included in the user activity information. For instance user A may operate application A to recommend or otherwise interact with application A. Application A may generate user activity information and sharing module A may send at least a portion of the user activity information e.g. a message that indicates that user A recommended the software application to one or more users to server system via network . In some examples in addition to or instead of sending the user activity information to server system the user activity information generated by application A may be stored locally at client device A.

User activity server may be configured to receive user activity information from one or more of client devices and publish at a social network service a social network activity entry based on at least a portion of the received user activity information. Published social network activity entries may be displayed to a subset of users of a social network service as defined by user association information included in the user activity information linking users in the social network. In some examples user activity server may receive user association information from users of a social network service via respective clients. User activity server may utilize user association information to control display of social network activity entries among users of the social network service. The user association information may specify a subset of the users of the social network service to which the social network activity entry should be displayed i.e. enable a subset of the users of the social network service to view the user activity information or may specify that the social network activity entry should be displayed to all of the users of the social network i.e. enable all of the users of the social network to view the user activity information . In general the user association information specifies one or more groups of users to which the social network activity information should be displayed or otherwise made available. The groups of users may include all users of one or more social network services or a subset of the users of the one or more social network services.

In some examples user activity server may utilize previously received user association information i.e. user association information that was provided to user activity server prior to the time when user activity server receives the user activity information from one of client devices to control the publication of the social network activity entry. That is in some examples prior to generating user activity information a user e.g. user A may provide a default group of users with whom to share any subsequent social network activity entries. User may override modify or otherwise change the previously provided user association information by for example providing new user association information at or about the same time as generating new user activity information.

User A may also provide different user association information for each different social network service and or for each different type of activity taken by user A with respect to software applications. For example user A may provider user association information that specifies that a first group of users e.g. a friend group should receive social network activity entries about games that user A is playing and provide different user association information that specifies that a second group of users e.g. a coworker group should receive social network activity entries about productivity applications user A has purchased. As another example user A may provide user association information to specify various groups of users that may receive social network activity entries about purchased software applications installed software applications and or deleted software applications. The groups of users may include users that all belong subscribe or are otherwise members of one social network service or that span two or more different social network services e.g. where a first user of the group belongs to a first social network service and a second user of the group belongs to a second social network service . That is each user of a group of users may belong to one or more social network services.

In other examples such as when no user association information has been previously provided by a user user activity server may cause sharing module A of application A to display on an output device a request for user association information. User A may then provide the user association information to control the publication of the generated user activity information.

User activity server may also be configured to establish referral associations between users. Referral associations may be stored at user activity server at client devices or any other suitable location. In some examples user activity server may receive user activity information from each user of a social network via respective clients. In other examples user activity server may receive user activity information from various social networking services.

Software apps may access user activity server to verify or determine referral associations and provide users with incentives e.g. rewards accordingly. As one example user A may operate application A to cause sharing module A to send user activity information regarding application A to user activity server e.g. user A recommends application A . User activity server in addition to publishing a social post may store this information and or establish a partial referral association. Thereafter user may interact with user A s social network activity entry e.g. social network activity entry A by operating social application on client device and download a copy of application A. In some instances the copy of application A may be exactly the same as application A. In other instances the copy of application A may be slightly different from A e.g. the copy may be computer code compiled to run on a different operating system . That is the copy of application A may be a different version of application A. By interacting with social network activity entry A user may also send user activity information to the social network service or to server system .

The social network service or server system may forward the user association information received from user to user activity server . After receiving user activity information pertaining to user s interaction with social network activity entry A user activity server may determine whether user is one of the users to whom user A recommended application A. User activity server may use stored user association information to determine whether user is one of the users with whom user A recommended application A. That is user activity server may determine whether user is included in the user association information that was provided by user A as part of the user activity information used to publish social network activity entry A. User activity server may establish a referral association using user activity information pertaining to user A s social network activity entry A and the user activity information pertaining to user s interaction with social network activity entry A. In some examples this referral association may only be established if user is verified as one of the users to whom user A recommended application A. In other words user activity server may only establish a referral association if the user association information received from user A and used by user activity server to publish social network activity entry A includes user .

After downloading an instance of application A user s instance of application A may communicate with user activity server to access or verify the existence of a referral association. Upon verification of the existence of a referral association user s instance of application A may for example provide a financial rebate to user reducing the cost of application A for user . As another possible outcome user A s instance of application A may access user activity server and provide a financial rebate to user A. In addition referral associations created by user activity server for a software application e.g. application A may be aggregated and provided to a software application developer of the software application. In this way user activity server may provide a way to determine what software applications are shared on social network services by what users and with whom.

One or more processors in one example are configured to implement functionality and or process instructions for execution within server system . For example processors may be capable of processing instructions stored in one or more storage devices .

One or more storage devices in one example are configured to store information within server system during operation. Storage device in some examples is described as a computer readable storage medium. In some examples storage device is a temporary memory meaning that a primary purpose of storage device is not long term storage. Storage device in some examples is described as a volatile memory meaning that storage device does not maintain stored contents when the computer is turned off. Examples of volatile memories include random access memories RAM dynamic random access memories DRAM static random access memories SRAM and other forms of volatile memories known in the art. In some examples storage device is used to store program instructions for execution by processors . Storage device in one example is used by software or applications running on server system e.g. applications to temporarily store information during program execution.

One or more storage devices in some examples also include one or more computer readable storage media. One or more storage devices may be configured to store larger amounts of information than volatile memory. One or more storage devices may further be configured for long term storage of information. In some examples one or more storage devices include non volatile storage elements. Examples of such non volatile storage elements include magnetic hard discs optical discs floppy discs flash memories or forms of electrically programmable memories EPROM or electrically erasable and programmable memories EEPROM .

As shown in storage devices include association information data repository ASSOC. INFO. user activity data repository and referral information data repository REF. INFO. . Association information data repository user activity data repository and referral information data repository may each be configured as a database flat file table or other data structure stored within storage devices of server system . In some examples association information data repository user activity data repository and referral information data repository may be configured as separate data repositories while in other examples they may be a part of a single data repository.

Server system in some examples also includes one or more network interfaces . Server system in one example utilizes one or more network interfaces to communicate with external devices via one or more networks such as one or more wireless networks. One or more network interfaces may be a network interface card such as an Ethernet card an optical transceiver a radio frequency transceiver or any other type of device that can send and receive information. Other examples of such network interfaces may include Bluetooth 3G and WiFi radios in mobile computing devices as well as USB. In some examples server system utilizes network interface to wirelessly communicate with an external device such as client devices of a mobile phone or other networked computing device.

Server system may include operating system . Operating system in some examples controls the operation of components of server system . For example operating system in one example facilitates the interaction of user activity server with processors network interface and storage device . Applications and user activity server may each include program instructions and or data that are executable by server system . For example user activity server may include instructions that cause server system to perform one or more of the operations and actions described in the present disclosure.

In accordance with aspects of the present disclosure user activity server may receive user activity information from client devices of . The received user activity information may include user association information. For example upon installation or configuration of sharing module A at client device A user A may provide user association information. The user association information may specify one or more social network services e.g. Google Facebook LinkedIn etc. provide user identification and authentication information and may also include information that identifies one or more users that are to receive user activity information. Upon permission from user A user activity module A may send the user association information to server system which may in turn provide the user association information to user activity server . User activity server may receive the user association information and store it within association information data repository . In general association information data repository may be configured to store any type of user association information received from one or more different client devices e.g. client devices .

In examples where user authentication information is included within the user association information received by user activity server user activity server may use the user association information and or the user authentication information received from a user e.g. user to configure a user account associated with the user. As one example user activity server may receive user s identification information and user authentication information from device . User activity server may send the received user authentication information to a social network service specified in the user identification information in order to authenticate at the social network service.

User activity server may receive user activity information from one or more client devices or user activity server may generate user activity information on its own. User activity server may publish at least an indication of user activity information at one or more social network services. When publishing the user activity information User activity server identifies any social network services for which it has received user authentication information and or at which it has already authenticated. User activity server may then publish at least a portion of the user activity information at the social network services on behalf of the user and without requiring the user to take further actions to cause the user activity information to be published. In some examples when publishing user activity information for a first time at each social network service user activity server may send a command to sharing module A to cause a notification and or request for authorization to be displayed on an output device similar to output device .

User activity server may also publish the user activity information other than at a social network service. For example when the user association information includes information about one or more other users e.g. an email address instant messaging username phone number etc. user activity server may text email call message or otherwise publish the user activity information to the users specified in the user association information. In examples where social network service information as well as information about one or more other users are both included in the user association information received by user activity server user activity server may both publish the user activity information at the social network services and send the user activity information to the other users in a manner determined based on the information about the other users.

In addition to storing and sharing the user activity information user activity server may use some or all of the received user activity information to establish or modify a referral association and to store referral association information in the referral information data repository . In general referral information data repository may be configured to store any type of referral association information created from user association information and or user activity information received from one or more different client devices e.g. client devices .

Upon creation of a referral association user activity server may provide this information to one or more social network services client devices or other suitable locations. For example user A may cause application A to create user activity information by attempting to create a social network activity entry using sharing module A. That is user A may share application A with other users B. Sharing module A may send the user activity information to server system . Upon receipt of the user activity information user activity server may create a partial referral association having referral association information and store the partial referral association in referral information data store . Subsequently another user e.g. user of may select user A s social network activity entry via a software application on another device e.g. application of client device to view and or download a new instance of application A.

Selection of the social network activity entry by user may generate a request to download a version of the software application and trigger application and or the social network service to send associated user activity information to user activity server . User activity server may then use the partial referral association stored in referral information data store to determine if user is one of the users with whom user A shared application A. That is user activity server may determine if user s was one of the users identified in the user association information received when user A shared application A. If user is one of the users with whom user A shared application A user activity server may send a response to the social network service indicating that user is authorized to view and or download a new instance of application A. User activity server may also use the user activity information received from social application and or the social network service to update or otherwise modify the referral association information associated with the published social network activity entry.

The referral association may upon user s selection of the social network activity entry contain information identifying users A application A and application . The referral association may also contain information about the time and date of creation of the social network activity entry by user A and the access by user the number of downloads from the social network activity entry of user A incentive eligibility criteria associated with the application and or the social network activity entry as well as other relevant information such as demographic information about users A.

If user is not one of the users with whom user A shared application A user activity server may send a response to the social network service indicating that user is not authorized to access the social network activity entry. The social network service may then redirect user e.g. to a general download site for application A .

User activity server may enable software applications e.g. applications software application developers advertisers or other entities to access referral associations and referral association information. For example upon installation application may communicate with user activity server to determine the existence of a referral association to determine if application was downloaded based on a social network activity entry. In response to a request for referral association information user activity server may determine the existence of a referral association and return a message to application . User A may have shared application A with use B and others through a social network activity entry. In other words user A may not have included user in the relevant user association information. User activity server may determine that a referral association between users A and for application A does not exist and return an appropriate message to application .

When a user selects a social network activity entry user activity server may receive a request to download a version of the relevant software application and store a referral association between the sharing user and the selecting user without regard to whether or not the selecting user was one with whom the sharing user shared the social network activity entry. The referral association may include a validation flag. User activity server may only validate the referral association in those instances where the sharing user included the selecting user in the relevant user association information. For example user activity server may store a referral association between users A and for application A but when receiving the request for referral association information from application user activity server may determine that the referral association information has not been validated and return an appropriate message to application .

When a referral association exists a software application e.g. application B on device B may receive an appropriate message from user activity server . A message indicating the existence of a referral association may cause application B to provide some reward to user B. In another embodiment user activity server may instead check for a validated referral association. Upon determining that a validated referral association does exist between users A and B for application A user activity server may send an appropriate message to application B. The message indicating the existence of a validated referral association may cause application B to provide some reward to user B. In some examples providing a reward to user B may be accomplished by causing application B to communicate with an application server not shown configured to manage the purchase of and billing for software applications such as software apps . In addition to or instead of providing a reward to user B user activity server may cause the application that was shared or recommended by a user e.g. application A by user A to provide a reward to the user that shared or recommended the application. That is user A may share application A with other users in accordance with the present disclosure. Upon user s access of the associated social network activity entry and download of an instance of application A e.g. application application may check the existence or validity of a referral association. Responsive to determining the referral association exists or is validated user activity server may communicate with application A or an application server to cause user A to receive some reward e.g. a monetary discount . In some examples existence or validation of a referral association may be based on the user association information included in the initial user activity information used to create a social network activity entry. In other words a referral association may be established if the user who accesses a social network activity entry is identified in the user association information.

Referral association information may include certain incentive eligibility. If the software application or the social network activity entry contains incentive eligibility criteria e.g. as part of the user association information user activity server may determine whether a user identified in a referral association complied with at least one of the incentive eligibility criteria. Users e.g. user A software application developers e.g. a software application developer of application A and or social network services may impose incentive eligibility criteria on social network activity entries. Examples of incentive eligibility criteria may include time limitations type of user limitations number of user limitations and others.

As an example a software application developer may be able to access user activity server and specify incentive eligibility criteria for that developer s software application. In one embodiment server system may provide a web based service to software application developers via network . In another embodiment sharing modules may provide an API for software application developers to utilize in order to specify incentive eligibility criteria. Incentive eligibility criteria specified by a software application developer may take effect on any or all future referral associations created in association with the developer s software application. One such example incentive eligibility criterion includes limiting a reward or other incentive to the first five users to select and download a software application from a specific social network activity entry. User may be the eighth user to select the social network activity entry associated with application A. Because user did not satisfy the criteria the social network service may not provide user with the same access to application as was provided to the first five users. Instead the social network service may provide user with general access to application . After user downloads application application may communicate with user activity server to determine the existence or validation of a relevant referral association. Due to the specified criteria user activity server may determine that a referral association is nonexistent or not validated and return an appropriate message to application . That is in some embodiments user activity server may still establish a referral association between user and user but the referral association may be deemed not validated due to the unsatisfied criteria. For those users who have met all of the criteria specified the referral server may validate the relevant referral association and return an appropriate message to application . The sent message corresponding to a validated referral association may grant the user whose software application receives the message some benefit such as a discounted purchase price.

In addition to providing users with benefits by managing the sharing of applications via one or more social network services the present disclosure also contemplates using referral associations and referral association information to enable software application developers and advertisers to access user activity information user association information and other relevant information regarding the sharing of applications via social network services. In various embodiments the user association information stored in user association information data store the user activity information stored in user activity information data store and or the referral associations stored in referral information data store may be accessed and or modified by user activity server to provide desired information to software application developers and advertisers. In some examples user activity server may enable remote access to the referral association information through network . In other examples user activity server may transmit the information to authorized parties. Some of this information may be aggregated before enabling access. That is information corresponding to specific referral associations may not be provided by user activity server but aggregated information such as the number of referral associations for specific users the total number of referrals the date and time of all referral associations or other relevant information may be provided. This information may enable a software application developer or advertiser to better understand how social networks affect software application sales and popularity.

GUI provides an example of application A with an associated sharing module e.g. sharing module A that may enable a user e.g. user A to share application A on one or more social network services. GUI shows in this example a promotional message as well as buttons A E collectively buttons . GUI may be displayed by a software application running on client device A or GUI may be part of a software application being accessed by client device A through network e.g. software applications running at server system or other suitable locations .

Promotional message may provide information to user A regarding benefits of sharing application A. Promotional message states that by sharing application A with others those with whom user A shared application A may download and purchase the software application for half of the normal purchase price. In promotional message is shown on a default screen of GUI . In other embodiments GUI may only display promotional message after certain criteria have been met. Examples of such criteria include number of times using the software application achieving a certain score or benchmark within the software application bestowing a certain rating upon the software application or other appropriate criteria. In one embodiment GUI may not show any promotional message . Promotional message may be related to certain events or temporal occurrences such as holidays or sales. A software application developer of application A may create a promotional event e.g. a Christmas sale event and notify users via a message in application A. In various examples the software application developer may notify users of promotional events by other methods such as email text message or social network service entry or message. The software application developer may create such promotional events and publish this information to the application users him or herself or alternatively a server e.g. server system may facilitate creation of such events by the software application developer and automatically publish messages to application A on client device A.

Buttons may enable a user of application A to access different graphical user interfaces. In buttons enable user A to rate the software application share the software application make in application purchases view high scores and access other options respectively. Various other software applications may provide different buttons with access to different features. Some of the graphical user interfaces accessible through buttons may include options enabling a user to create user activity and send associated information to sever system . For example selection of button A labeled Rate may prompt user A for input in relation to rating application A. After selecting a rating user A may be asked if he or she would like to share this rating on one or more social network services.

Other buttons may display a GUI containing configuration options for application A. As one example button E labeled More may enable user A to associate application A with the user s various social network service accounts i.e. by specifying a social network service and providing login credentials . Button E may further enable user A to configure or disable the automatic generation and sharing of user activity information by application A. That is while disabled by default applications may be configurable by a user to allow the software application to generate and send user activity information automatically. As one example application B may be an audio application. If configured by user B to allow for the automatic generation and sharing of user activity information application B may generate and share information regarding what audio track is currently being played.

By selecting button B labeled Share user A may be presented with a GUI as shown in . Using the GUI as shown in user A may be able to share or recommend application A to other users in accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure.

GUI may provide another example of application A with an associated sharing module e.g. sharing module A . GUI may have background area and sharing popup . Sharing popup may further contain list options for different methods of sharing application A. List options of sharing popup may include for example email option text message option social network service option and Quick Reference Code QR Code option . GUI may be displayed by a software application running on client device A or GUI may be part of a software application accessed by client device A through network .

Sharing popup of GUI may be accessed by a user e.g. user A through GUI of . For example user A s selection of button B labeled Share may cause application A to display sharing popup as depicted in . The various list options of sharing popup may enable user A to share application A with one or more other users e.g. users B by one or more means in accordance with the present disclosure. As one example user A s selection of social network service option may enable user A to create a social network activity entry at one or more social network services.

Before or upon user A s first selection of social network service option sharing module A may request user association information from user A. A request for user association information may in various examples enable user A to specify with which users e.g. social network contacts certain user activity information is to be shared. In other words the first time application A receives a selection of social network service option sharing module A may require user A to authenticate him or herself to one or more social network services e.g. by specifying one or more social network services and entering a login and password combination . Sharing module A may also require user A to provide a list or group of users with whom user A would like to share user activity information.

In some examples sharing module A may not request user association information because user A may have previously been required to provide user association information e.g. by selecting button E or by a previous selection of social network service option . In examples where sharing module A previously received user association information selection of social network service option may not cause sharing module A to request user association information. In other examples sharing module A may always request user association information upon application A receiving a selection of social network service option . That is sharing module A may remember user association information once it is input by user A or sharing module A may request user association information in response to each selection of social network service option .

User A s selection of social network service option may also cause sharing module A to request other input from user A. For example sharing module A may ask user A if he or she would like to modify or add to the user activity information to be generated. In other examples user A s selection of social network service option may not cause sharing module A to request other input from user A. That is selection of social network service option may automatically generate user activity information. Whether or not sharing module A requires more user input from user A may be based on certain options or settings configurable by user A and accessible from GUI of . By default sharing module A may allow user A to add to and or confirm the user activity information by giving user A the opportunity to author part of the social network activity entry to be published by user activity server .

User activity information may then be sent to server system . In various examples in addition to or instead of sending the user activity information to server system the user activity information generated by sharing module A may be stored locally at client device A. User activity server may use at least a portion of the user activity information received by server system to create and publish a social network activities entry. Additionally user activity server may store the received user activity information and or use it to establish partial referral associations.

Selection of other options from sharing popup i.e. email option text message option or QR Code option may cause sharing module A to generate user activity information in a fashion similar to that described as a result of a user s selection of social network service option . As one example a user e.g. user A may select email option . Upon receiving this selection sharing module A of application A may generate user activity information and or allow user A to author user activity information and send the user activity information to server system . Server system and or user activity server may store user association information received from sharing module A but may refrain from publishing a social network activity entry at a social network service based on the user association information. When user activity server receives user activity information and or user association information from sharing module A in response to a selection of email option user activity server may create a new referral association or modify an existing referral association with at least a portion of the received user activity information and or user association information.

In addition to generating user association information for transmittal to server system sharing module A may in response to a selection of email option interact with an email application of device A not shown . Sharing module A may interact with the email application of device A to email at least a portion of the user activity information created by sharing module A and or user A to other users e.g. users B . In other words in response to a selection by user A of email option in sharing popup sharing module A of application A may send an email to users B as determined by the relevant user association information with at least a portion of the user association information generated by sharing module A. The email sent by sharing module A and to users B may include one or more of 1 a user identifier e.g. user name identification code etc. that identifies a user that performed the user activity 2 a software application identifier e.g. title developer name identification code etc. that identifies a software application associated with the user activity 3 an action identifier that identifies one or more actions e.g. download review purchase promote rate etc. performed with respect to the software application 4 a time identifier that identifies a time at which the one or more actions were performed 5 a platform identifier that identifies a type of device e.g. mobile phone desktop computer etc. utilized to perform the one or more actions 6 user association information e.g. whom the user intends to share the user activity with 7 other suitable information.

The portion of user association information included in the email sent by sharing module A may be directly accessible that is shown in or attached to the email or in other examples it may be accessible by a hyperlink to an Internet website. In those examples where the email contains a hyperlink the website may enable the recipient of the email e.g. user to access and or download an instance of application A. This website may be created by user activity server or any other suitable server device connected to network . By accessing this website and or downloading an instance of application A user may provide certain user activity information through network to server system . User activity server may use the user activity information in accordance with techniques of the present disclosure.

Selection of the text message option may cause sharing module A generate user activity information send the user activity information to server system and also to interact with a text messaging application of device A not shown . Sharing module A may interact with the text messaging application of device A to send a text message including at least a portion of the user activity information created by sharing module A to other users e.g. users B . The text message may directly include the user activity information or may provide a hyperlink to an Internet website similar to that described with respect to a selection of email option . Additionally sharing module A may send the created user activity information to server system .

User A selecting QR Code option may cause sharing module A to generate user activity information send the user activity information to server system and generate a QR code containing the user activity information. Alternatively sharing module A may generate a QR code containing a hyperlink to an Internet website containing the user activity information. Application A may then display the generated QR code on a display of client device B. User A may then show the QR code to other users e.g. user B . User B may use client device B to scan the QR code and obtain the user activity information.

A first user e.g. user A may interact with an application e.g. application A of a first user device e.g. client device A and share application A . To share application A sharing module A may send a message to a server system e.g. server system . The message may include user activity information and user account information e.g. corresponding to one or more social network services .

Server system may receive the message from client device A . The message may include software application information identifying application A user information identifying user A and or user association information identifying those users with whom user A intended to share the software application. In some examples the message from client device A may also include user authentication for one or more social network services. In other examples user authentication information for the social network service s may have been previously received and stored by server system . At least a portion of the information included in the message from client device A may be distributed by server system to user activity server as well as stored in the one or more storage devices .

In response to receiving the first message from client device A server system may publish a social post at one or more social network services . This may be performed by server system or more specifically by user activity server . The social post may be based on user activity information received by server system from client device A. As part of publishing the social post user activity server may utilize user authentication information received from client device A to authenticate with the one or more social network services. In various embodiments the social post may include content generated by user A application A and or user activity server . That is the published social post may contain content authored by user A of client device A as well as content created by application A and or user activity server .

Server system may also establish a partial referral association or multiple associations based on receipt of the message from client device A . This may be performed by server system or more specifically by user activity server . The partial referral association s may be created based at least in part on the user activity information received by server system from client device A. As one example a partial referral association may include one or more of 1 a user identifier e.g. user name identification code etc. that identifies user A 2 a software application identifier e.g. title developer name identification code etc. that identifies application A 3 an action identifier that identifies one or more actions e.g. download review purchase promote rate etc. performed by user A with respect to application A 4 a time identifier that identifies a time at which the one or more actions were performed 5 a platform identifier that identifies the type of device e.g. client device A utilized to perform the one or more actions 6 user association information e.g. whom user A intends to share the user activity with 7 other suitable information. The partial referral association s may be stored in the one or more storage devices .

A second user e.g. user may interact with a software application of a second device e.g. client device to select the social post published at one of the one or more social network services . User may use a social application e.g. application on client device to access one or more social network services and view the social post published by user activity server in response to receipt of the message from user A. Application may be software executing on client device or may be software executing at another suitable location and displayed at client device through network . Application may enable user to preview a number of social posts. Additionally Application may allow user to view a social post by selecting it. Selection may be accomplished by user touching clicking on or otherwise identifying the social post in accordance with the operation of client device .

In response to the selection of the social post by user server system may receive a message from the social network service . The message received from the social network service may contain user activity information generated by the social network service relating to user s selection of the social post. While describes this message as being received from a social network service the present disclosure also contemplates server system receiving the message from client device . Server system may store the user activity information contained in the message received from the social network service in the one or more storage devices . Additionally server system may distribute this information to user activity server .

Server system may verify that the second user is one with whom the first user shared the software application . More specifically user activity server may utilize the user association information received in the message from the first user to determine whether user was one of the users with whom user A shared application A.

Upon verifying that user is one of the users with whom user A shared application A server system may complete a referral association between users A and . This may be done by server system or more specifically by user activity server . The completed referral association may include user activity information received from client device A pertaining to user A and user activity information received from the social network service pertaining to user . The completed referral association may be stored by server system or user activity server in the one or more storage devices .

Server system may also send a verification message to the social network service . The verification message from server system to the social network service may contain information informing the social network service that user is authorized to view and or access the social post published by user activity server . In one example the social network service may use this message to determine upon a selection by user whether to direct user to a location allowing user to download a version of application A having a reduced purchase price or to a general location allowing user to download a regularly priced version of application A. In other examples the social network service may only store the information included in the verification message from server system .

GUI provides an example of user activity information that may be published to a user activity feed presented on a graphical display of a client. GUI shows for a given user a user activity feed that comprises user activity information generated in response to user activity of other users having an associational relationship with the user. For example GUI includes follower information following information search box and user activity entries . User may provide a profile picture to include in GUI that may be displayed when user views GUI and may also be included in user activity entries that include user activity information based on actions associated with user .

User may select one or more other users to follow and may be followed by one or more other users. To follow another user means to subscribe to or otherwise receive user activity information for the other user. To be followed by another user means that the other user receives user activity information generated based on actions associated with user . GUI may include a graphical and or textual indication of a number of users following user i.e. followers and a number of users that user is following i.e. following .

Each user activity entry may include one or more of a user identifier an action identifier a software application identifier and an activity status indicator for a given user. User identifier may include a name of a user and a picture or other image selected by the user. Action identifier includes information about how the user e.g. user interacted with the software application and or other information describing a user activity. For example in the first user activity entry action identifier indicates that John Smith Rated Spiggles 5 stars . In the second user activity entry action identifier indicates that Jane Smith connected with Josh Killen. In some examples user activity entry includes software application identifier that indicates a particular software application associated with action identifier e.g. the Rdio application was installed by Leah Cole . Software application identifier may include a link to a store where a user can purchase the software application or link to additional information about the software application. The link included in software application identifier may direct user to different locations depending on whether user activity entry includes any incentive eligibility criteria and whether user meets at least one of the incentive eligibility criteria. Activity status indicator includes information about when the user activity occurred i.e. 3 hours ago whether any users have commented on the user activity i.e. 0 comments and whether any users have 1 d the user activity i.e. 3 1 s .

GUI may also include buttons A E that may enable a user e.g. user to cause different graphical user interfaces to be displayed and perform different actions. For example activation of button A may cause a chat interface to be displayed that may enable a user to chat with other social network users. Activation of button B may cause a social network service interface to be displayed that may enable a user to view compose and exchange messages with other users. Activating button C may cause a store interface to be displayed that may enable a user to preview purchase and download additional software applications. Activating button D may cause a connections interface to be displayed that includes information about other users of the social network service i.e. those users of whom user is a follower or by whom user is being followed . Activating button E may cause other interfaces to be displayed that may enable a user to perform additional functions. For example a configuration interface may be displayed that enables a user to configure user account information and manage the distribution of user activity information associated with the user.

While not depicted in GUI may further include a software application platform identifier to indicate that software application identifier was purchased via a particular platform such as Android for example. In at least some implementations user activity information may be presented as hyperlinks that enable a user to select the hyperlink to access additional information. For example a software application identifier may be selected by a user to purchase and or download the software application identified by the software application identifier. Selectable icons may also be presented to enable users to access additional information or purchase software applications.

The process of includes receiving by a server system and from a computing device associated with a first user a message that includes 1 user association information and 2 an indication of a software application executable by the computing device wherein the user association information identifies a subset of users . The process of also includes publishing by the server system a post to the subset of users indicated by the user association information wherein the post is based at least in part on the message . The process further includes receiving by the server system a request for a version of the software application from a second user who is a member of the subset of users . The process includes determining whether the post was re shared by a third user . The process also includes responsive to determining that the post was not re shared by the third user NO branch of storing in a database of the server system a referral association between the first user the second user and the version of the software application . Finally the process includes responsive to determining that the post was re shared by the third user YES branch of storing in the database a referral association between the third user the second user and the version of the software application .

In one example the process also includes responsive to a device associated with the second user downloading a version of the software application from the post updating the referral association to include an indication that the second user downloaded a version of the software application.

In one example the process also includes receiving from a device associated with the second user a message indicating that the second user has installed a version of the software application and updating the referral association to include an indication that the second user installed a version of the software application.

In one example the process also includes receiving by the server system a request for a version of the software application from a fourth user who is not a member of the subset of users and refraining from storing a referral association between the first user the fourth user and the software application.

In one example the process also includes receiving by the server system one or more incentive eligibility criteria determining that the request for a version of the software application satisfies at least one of the incentive eligibility criteria and providing a referral incentive to at least one of the first user the second user and the third user. The incentive eligibility criteria may include a maximum number of referral incentives a group of users eligible for the referral incentive or a minimum number of referrals required prior to the first user being eligible for the referral incentive.

In one example the process also includes receiving by the server system one or more incentive eligibility criteria determining that the request for a version of the software application satisfies at least one of the incentive eligibility criteria and validating the referral association.

In one example the process also includes prior to receiving the request for a version of the software application receiving by the server system and from a device associated with a software application developer of the software application one or more changes to at least one of one or more incentive eligibility criteria established after publishing the post updating the one or more incentive eligibility criteria to incorporate the one or more changes determining that the request satisfies at least one of the incentive eligibility criteria and providing a referral incentive to at least one of the first user the second user and the third user.

In one example the process also includes prior to receiving the message from the computing device receiving by the server system and from the computing device authentication information associated with the first user authenticating based at least in part on the authentication information the first user at the server system and publishing the post at a user account associated with the first user.

In one example the process further includes storing the referral association in a database the database further comprising other referral associations for a plurality of software applications aggregating by the server system referral associations associated with the software application and providing information regarding the aggregated referral associations to a device associated with a software application developer of the software application.

In one example the process further includes storing the referral association in a database the database further comprising other referral associations for a plurality of software applications aggregating by the server system referral associations associated with the software application and providing information regarding the aggregated referral associations to a device associated with an advertiser associated with the software application.

In one example wherein the message further includes user activity information the process also includes updating the referral association to include the user activity information and providing a device associated with a software application developer of the software application with the updated referral association.

In one example the server system enables each of a plurality of users to associate a profile with a user account and publish posts to one or more of the plurality of users.

In one example publishing the post to the subset of users includes identifying a first portion of users of the subset of users who have not previously installed the application on a respective device associated with one of the first portion of users identifying a second portion of users of the subset of users who previously installed the application on a respective device associated with one of the second portion of users publishing by the server system the post to the first portion of users who have not previously installed the software application and refraining from publishing the post to the second portion of users who previously installed the software application.

The techniques described herein may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. Various features described as modules units or components may be implemented together in an integrated logic device or separately as discrete but interoperable logic devices or other hardware devices. In some cases various features of electronic circuitry may be implemented as one or more integrated circuit devices such as an integrated circuit chip or chipset.

If implemented in hardware this disclosure may be directed to an apparatus such a processor or an integrated circuit device such as an integrated circuit chip or chipset. Alternatively or additionally if implemented in software or firmware the techniques may be realized at least in part by a computer readable data storage medium comprising instructions that when executed cause one or more processors to perform one or more of the methods described above. For example the computer readable data storage medium may store such instructions for execution by a processor. Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized.

A computer readable medium may form part of a computer program product which may include packaging materials. A computer readable medium may comprise a computer data storage medium such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM non volatile random access memory NVRAM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory magnetic or optical data storage media and the like. In general a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device. Additional examples of computer readable medium include computer readable storage devices computer readable memory and tangible computer readable medium. In some examples an article of manufacture may comprise one or more computer readable storage media.

In some examples the computer readable storage media may comprise non transitory media. The term non transitory may indicate that the storage medium is not embodied in a carrier wave or a propagated signal. In certain examples a non transitory storage medium may store data that can over time change e.g. in RAM or cache .

The code or instructions may be software and or firmware executed by processing circuitry including one or more processors such as one or more digital signal processors DSPs general purpose microprocessors application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or other equivalent integrated or discrete logic circuitry. Accordingly the term processor as used herein may refer to any of the foregoing structure or any other processing circuitry suitable for implementation of the techniques described herein. In addition in some aspects functionality described in this disclosure may be provided within software modules or hardware modules.

Various embodiments have been described. These and other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

