---

title: System and method for reputation scoring
abstract: The present invention generally relates to online reputations. Specifically, this invention relates to a system and method for analyzing, determining, reporting and modifying an online reputation of a business, professional or individual. The online reputation of a business, professional or individual being comprised of a numeric value, calculated at least in part on positive reviews of the business, professional or individual, negative reviews of the business, professional or individual and the types of websites the positive or negative reviews reside upon.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08484041&OS=08484041&RS=08484041
owner: 
number: 08484041
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120920
---
The present invention generally relates to online reputations. Specifically this invention relates to a system and method for analyzing determining reporting and modifying an online reputation of a business professional or individual. The online reputation of a business professional or individual being comprised of a numeric value calculated at least in part on positive reviews of the business professional or individual negative reviews of the business professional or individual and the types of websites the positive or negative reviews reside upon.

This application claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 041 002 filed Mar. 4 2011 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Today s economy is growing more and more dependent on e commerce online transactions and online presences. In large part the world now requires entities e.g. professionals businesses individuals politicians non profit organizations to have an online presence. Even where entities have their own online identity these identities are augmented by an always growing portfolio of data surrounding the entity. For instance each transaction purchase interaction with customer support or other event is likely to be noted most likely permanently on one or more spaces on the Internet.

The Internet is comprised of thousands of sites where customers may rate entities rank entities comment on transactions and experiences they have had with entities and more. Each of these interactions may be viewable by an entity s potential customers clients family members employers or other third party. Positive and negative alike every interaction is a fixture that the entity may or may not be able to affect.

One major issue is that there is no way currently for a business or a consumer to get an overall rating of a particular entity. The only way currently for a business or consumer to get an overview of a particular entity is to scour through potentially hundreds or thousands of web pages looking at reviews and comments about the particular entity. This can be time consuming and inaccurate as the top results of the particular ntity may be skewed one way e.g. overly positive overly negative overly neutral while more relevant results may be harder to find.

In any event if a customer or business wanted to find out the total overall reputation for a particular entity especially large entities which may have hundreds of thousands or millions of interactions available on the Internet the process would be ultimately be impossible.

Another problem with the current state of the art is that even when a customer or business is able to get a rating of a particular entity there is no way to know if the particular entity s ratings are trending in any particular direction. Most rating systems in use today only provide overall rankings or ratings not trending information. This information may be particularly useful for entity s with imperfect ratings or rankings. If trending information showed a 4 out of 5 star business had improved its ratings drastically over the past few weeks months years a customer may be more inclined to enter into a transaction with that entity.

Since there is no way in the current state of the art to identify a business s online reputation entities have a hard time identifying areas of particular weaknesses in their online reputation. Without being able to identify the weaknesses in an entity s online reputation it is nearly impossible to make a focused and effective effort to improve an entity s overall online reputation.

Therefore there is a need in the art for a system and method for providing an overall online reputation score to a user potentially including reputation trending data points and present recommendations on how to modify the overall online reputation score. These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be explained and will become obvious to one skilled in the art through the summary of the invention that follows.

The present invention provides users a single networked platform for the determination and analysis of online reputations of businesses individuals professionals or other entities collectively referred to as entities or entity . This includes the ability to recommend particular actions that may be taken to modify the online reputation of such entities. The platform uniquely combines one or more modules for analyzing and extracting data points that may affect an entity s online reputation from one or more of search engine results e commerce site ratings rankings and social media platforms.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a server component may provide functionality for utilization of said one or more modules across one or more networks. Additionally the server component may provide functionality for one or more users to access an online business reputation based at least in part on data received from the one or more modules. Prior to transmitting said online business reputation to said one or more users the system herein described may generate reports based at least in part on online business reputation and determine recommendations on how to modify said online business reputation. Said reports may be transmitted to said one or more users where desired requested.

The foregoing summary of the present invention with the preferred embodiments should not be construed to limit the scope of the invention. It should be understood and obvious to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention thus described may be further modified without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

The present invention generally relates to online reputations. Specifically this invention relates to a system and method for analyzing determining reporting and modifying an online reputation of a business professional or individual. The online reputation of a business professional or individual being comprised of a numeric value calculated at least in part on positive reviews of the business professional or individual negative reviews of the business professional or individual and the types of websites the positive or negative reviews reside upon.

According to an embodiment of the present invention the system and method is accomplished through the use of one or more computing devices. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that a computing device appropriate for use with embodiments of the present application may generally be comprised of one or more of a Central Processing Unit CPU Random Access Memory RAM and a storage medium e.g. hard disk drive solid state drive flash memory . Examples of computing devices usable with embodiments of the present invention include but are not limited to personal computers smart phones laptops mobile computing devices and servers. One of ordinary skill in the art would understand that any number of computing devices could be used and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any computing device.

In an exemplary embodiment according to the present invention data may be provided to the system stored by the system and provided by the system to users of the system across local area networks LANs e.g. office networks home networks or wide area networks WANs e.g. the Internet . In accordance with the previous embodiment the system may be comprised of numerous servers communicatively connected across one or more LANs and or WANs. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous manners in which the system could be configured and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any configuration.

In general the system and methods provided herein may be consumed by a user of a computing device whether connected to a network or not. According to an embodiment of the present invention some of the applications of the present invention may not be accessible when not connected to a network however a user may be able to compose data offline that will be consumed by the system when the user is later connected to a network.

Referring to a schematic overview of a system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention is shown. The system is comprised of one or more application servers for electronically receiving processing and storing information used by the system. Modules in the server may retrieve and manipulate information in storage devices and exchange information through a WAN e.g. the Internet .

According to an exemplary embodiment as shown in exchange of information through the WAN or other network may occur through one or more high speed connections directed through one or more routers . Router s are completely optional and other embodiments in accordance with the present invention may or may not utilize one or more routers . One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous ways server may connect to WAN for the exchange of information and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any method for connecting to networks for the purpose of exchanging information.

Users may connect to server via WAN or other network in numerous ways. For instance a user may connect to the system i through a computing device directly connected to the WAN ii through a computing device connected to the WAN through a routing device iii through a computing device connected to a wireless access point or iv through a computing device via a wireless connection e.g. CDMA GMS 3G 4G to the WAN . One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous ways that a user may connect to Server via WAN or other network and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any method for connecting to Server via WAN or other network.

According to an embodiment of the present invention an individual or organization may signup to become a user of the system herein provided. In an exemplary embodiment an individual or organization would go through a registration process whereby they would provide identifying information to be stored in application server . This identifying information may be used for instance to identify the user secure their login or process financial transactions. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate there are numerous ways to provide and manage registration processes and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any method for providing and managing registration processes.

Turning now to an exemplary embodiment of a system in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention is described. In this embodiment the system is comprised of an analysis module an application module a reporting module a recommendation module a communication module and a data module . One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that these modules could be located on a single computing device or multiple computing devices communicatively connected to one another.

According to an embodiment of the present invention an analysis module provides functionality to the system for analyzing online systems for interactions pertaining to one or more entities. Online systems include but are not limited to websites search engines e commerce sites blogs social network platforms new media platforms RSS feeds and business review sites. Interactions include but are not limited to ratings reviews blog posts news posts tweets social network comments page ranking statistics and business bureau results. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous online systems and interactions that could be analyzed by an analysis module in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any type of online entity and interaction.

According to an embodiment of the present invention an analysis module may be configured to request and receive information from one or more of a communication module and or a data module . Typically the analysis module in conjunction with the one or more communication modules searches numerous online systems for interactions related to a particular entity. Optionally the analysis module may also search information stored at one or more data modules for previously stored interactions related to a particular entity.

According to an embodiment of the present invention an analysis module is configured to analyze interactions for their quality and type. For instance an analysis module may be configured to identify whether a particular interaction is a positive interaction e.g. good review of an entity or a negative interaction e.g. a bad review of an entity . The analysis module may be further configured to weight the importance of a particular interaction. For example an analysis module may weight an interaction found on various websites differently based on for instance the difficulty of removing or changing a negative review. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that there are numerous ways for an interaction to be weighted and embodiments of the present invention are contemplated for use with any method for weighting interactions.

According to an embodiment of the present invention an application module may be utilized to manage a user s experience with the system. The application module may be configured to allow users to login request online reputation scores for one or more entities requests reports related to one or more entities make financial transactions related to membership fees and other actions common to modules for managing user experience.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a reporting module may be utilized to generate reports related to one or more online reputation scores. In order to generate reports the reporting module may receive information from one or more of a analysis module an application module a recommendation module a communications module and a data module . Reports may include but are not limited to a current online reputation score historical online reputation scores trending information related to one or more online reputation scores trending information comparing trends related to two or more entities recommendations related to historical online reputation scores recommendations related to current online reputation scores and recommendations related to desired online reputation scores.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a reporting module may be configured to provide reports to users in one or more formats. Report formats include but are not limited to Word documents text documents PDFs XML JSON e mail HTML PowerPoint Excel and comma separated values CSV . The reports may also be provided via one or more application programming interfaces API to be consumed by third party applications. Advantageously through the use of APIs reports generated by the systems and methods herein described may be provided to and consumed by users of third party systems.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a recommendation module may be utilized to make specific and general recommendations to users based on analyzed interactions provided by an analysis module . In this manner entities may be provided with more than just an online reputation score. Advantageously the system and methods herein described may not only allow entities to know how they are viewed in the public but take actions to improve their online reputation score.

According to an alternative embodiment of the present invention a recommendation module may be utilized to make specific and general recommendations to users on how to lower an online reputation score. While most typically the system and methods herein described will be utilized to improve an online reputation score recommendations may also be provided for lowering an online reputation score. For example an entity may wish to take actions to lower the online reputation score of another entity. In this manner the recommendation module could provide recommendations on how to effectively reduce the other entity s online reputation score.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a communication module may be utilized to handle communications to and from the systems herein described. Communication modules may be comprised of a mixture of hardware and software and designed to interconnect one or more computing devices to one or more of a LAN or WAN. The communication module may be an integrated part of the system herein described or communicatively connected in a manner to allow for attachment and detachment at will.

According to an embodiment of the present invention a data module may be utilized to handle storage of relevant information to be used by the systems herein described. Data module may be comprised of a mixture of hardware and software designed to allow for the temporary or permanent storage of data to be accessed by a system. Data modules include but are not limited to databases storage mediums and random access memory.

According to an embodiment of the present invention analysis module is communicatively connected to one or more of an application module a reporting module a recommendation module a communications module and a data module .

According to an embodiment of the present invention application module is communicatively connected to one or more of an analysis module a reporting module a recommendation module a communications module and a data module .

According to an embodiment of the present invention reporting module is communicatively connected to one or more of an analysis module an application module a recommendation module a communications module and a data module .

According to an embodiment of the present invention recommendation module is communicatively connected to one or more of an analysis module an application module a reporting module a communications module and a data module .

According to an embodiment of the present invention communication module is communicatively connected to one or more of an analysis module an application module a reporting module a recommendation module and a data module .

According to an embodiment of the present invention data module is communicatively connected to one or more of an analysis module an application module a reporting module a recommendation module a communications module .

Turning now to an exemplary process in accordance with the present invention is shown. The process starts at step when a user logs into the system. The user may log in via an application module provided by the system.

At step the user sends to the system a request for an analysis and report of an online reputation score of a particular entity. Typically this sort of request will be made over a network to the system which is located remotely from the user s computing device. For instance this request may be received at a website contacted by the user utilizing a computing device connected to the Internet. The request may be received for instance at a communications module of the system.

At step the request is sent to an analysis module for processing. At this point the analysis module may perform a search of one or more networks and storage mediums for interactions related to an entity. The analysis module will review and rank rate each interaction individually and generate an online reputation score based on predetermined algorithms for reviewing and weighting various interactions.

According to an embodiment of the present invention Particular searches may be configured to suit the needs of a particular user. For instance some users may only desire to have a standard search performed. A standard search may limit itself to only the first few dozen results returned. Other users may require in depth searches requiring the search and analysis of various levels of interactions no matter how remote. The more in depth the search the more resources will be utilized and the more time or processing power may be consumed in order to generate the appropriate analysis of the interactions.

Once the analysis is complete the process moves to step at which point the system begins to generate a report based on the analysis provided from the analysis module . Optionally the system may choose to store certain interactions and analyses identified and performed in step in one or more data modules to be utilized in future analysis and reports.

According to an embodiment of the present invention prior to generating a report based on the analysis the analysis data may be passed to one or more recommendation modules . The one or more recommendation modules may utilize the analysis data to generate one or more recommendations on how to modify the analyzed online reputation score. The one or more recommendation modules may be configured in such a manner as to only provide recommendations that may be pertinent to the particular user s goals. For instance a user who has been identified as a small business may not be presented a recommendation to hire an expensive public relations firm in order to improve their online reputation score. Once the appropriate recommendations have been identified the recommendation information may be sent to the reporting module for addition in the report to be generated for the user.

At step the generated report is transmitted from the reporting module to the user via the communications module . The report may be transmitted in any of the previously described manners including transmittal through the use of an API for consumption by third party services prior to being received by the user.

The process ends at step with the user receiving the requested online reputation score report. The previous steps are merely for example purposes. The steps are not required to be executed in this order and one of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that these steps could be executed in a variety of different manners as well as having two or more of the steps executing simultaneously.

Turing now to a table is shown that represents an online reputation score report in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The online reputation score report in this embodiment is comprised of numerous weighted rankings of entities based in part upon their position type and origin. The final score is weighted to fit a scale of 10 80 points. Once the final score has been weighted the report may be provided to the user and also present a breakdown of how good their score is e.g. 75 80 is excellent 65 74 is above average 51 64 is below average and 10 50 is poor .

Throughout this disclosure and elsewhere block diagrams and flowchart illustrations depict methods apparatuses i.e. systems and computer program products. Each element of the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations as well as each respective combination of elements in the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations illustrates a function of the methods apparatuses and computer program products. Any and all such functions depicted functions can be implemented by computer program instructions by special purpose hardware based computer systems by combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions by combinations of general purpose hardware and computer instructions and so on any and all of which may be generally referred to herein as a circuit module or system. 

While the foregoing drawings and description set forth functional aspects of the disclosed systems no particular arrangement of software for implementing these functional aspects should be inferred from these descriptions unless explicitly stated or otherwise clear from the context.

Each element in flowchart illustrations may depict a step or group of steps of a computer implemented method. Further each step may contain one or more sub steps. For the purpose of illustration these steps as well as any and all other steps identified and described above are presented in order. It will be understood that an embodiment can contain an alternate order of the steps adapted to a particular application of a technique disclosed herein. All such variations and modifications are intended to fall within the scope of this disclosure. The depiction and description of steps in any particular order is not intended to exclude embodiments having the steps in a different order unless required by a particular application explicitly stated or otherwise clear from the context.

Traditionally a computer program consists of a finite sequence of computational instructions or program instructions. It will be appreciated that a programmable apparatus i.e. computing device can receive such a computer program and by processing the computational instructions thereof produce a further technical effect.

A programmable apparatus includes one or more microprocessors microcontrollers embedded microcontrollers programmable digital signal processors programmable devices programmable gate arrays programmable array logic memory devices application specific integrated circuits or the like which can be suitably employed or configured to process computer program instructions execute computer logic store computer data and so on. Throughout this disclosure and elsewhere a computer can include any and all suitable combinations of at least one general purpose computer special purpose computer programmable data processing apparatus processor processor architecture and so on.

It will be understood that a computer can include a computer readable storage medium and that this medium may be internal or external removable and replaceable or fixed. It will also be understood that a computer can include a Basic Input Output System BIOS firmware an operating system a database or the like that can include interface with or support the software and hardware described herein.

Embodiments of the system as described herein are not limited to applications involving conventional computer programs or programmable apparatuses that run them. It is contemplated for example that embodiments of the invention as claimed herein could include an optical computer quantum computer analog computer or the like.

Regardless of the type of computer program or computer involved a computer program can be loaded onto a computer to produce a particular machine that can perform any and all of the depicted functions. This particular machine provides a means for carrying out any and all of the depicted functions.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Computer program instructions can be stored in a computer readable memory capable of directing a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner. The instructions stored in the computer readable memory constitute an article of manufacture including computer readable instructions for implementing any and all of the depicted functions.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

The elements depicted in flowchart illustrations and block diagrams throughout the figures imply logical boundaries between the elements. However according to software or hardware engineering practices the depicted elements and the functions thereof may be implemented as parts of a monolithic software structure as standalone software modules or as modules that employ external routines code services and so forth or any combination of these. All such implementations are within the scope of the present disclosure.

In view of the foregoing it will now be appreciated that elements of the block diagrams and flowchart illustrations support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of steps for performing the specified functions program instruction means for performing the specified functions and so on.

It will be appreciated that computer program instructions may include computer executable code. A variety of languages for expressing computer program instructions are possible including without limitation C C Java JavaScript assembly language Lisp HTML and so on. Such languages may include assembly languages hardware description languages database programming languages functional programming languages imperative programming languages and so on. In some embodiments computer program instructions can be stored compiled or interpreted to run on a computer a programmable data processing apparatus a heterogeneous combination of processors or processor architectures and so on. Without limitation embodiments of the system as described herein can take the form of web based computer software which includes client server software software as a service peer to peer software or the like.

In some embodiments a computer enables execution of computer program instructions including multiple programs or threads. The multiple programs or threads may be processed more or less simultaneously to enhance utilization of the processor and to facilitate substantially simultaneous functions. By way of implementation any and all methods program codes program instructions and the like described herein may be implemented in one or more thread. The thread can spawn other threads which can themselves have assigned priorities associated with them. In some embodiments a computer can process these threads based on priority or any other order based on instructions provided in the program code.

Unless explicitly stated or otherwise clear from the context the verbs execute and process are used interchangeably to indicate execute process interpret compile assemble link load any and all combinations of the foregoing or the like. Therefore embodiments that execute or process computer program instructions computer executable code or the like can suitably act upon the instructions or code in any and all of the ways just described.

The functions and operations presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may also be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will be apparent to those of skill in the art along with equivalent variations. In addition embodiments of the invention are not described with reference to any particular programming language. It is appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the present teachings as described herein and any references to specific languages are provided for disclosure of enablement and best mode of embodiments of the invention. Embodiments of the invention are well suited to a wide variety of computer network systems over numerous topologies. Within this field the configuration and management of large networks include storage devices and computers that are communicatively coupled to dissimilar computers and storage devices over a network such as the Internet.

While multiple embodiments are disclosed still other embodiments of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from this detailed description. The invention is capable of myriad modifications in various obvious aspects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Accordingly the drawings and descriptions are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not restrictive.

