---

title: Methods and apparatus for recognizing and acting upon user intentions expressed in on-line conversations and similar environments
abstract: Intentions of a user as expressed in an on-line conversation or other user generated content (UGC) are identified and subsequently acted upon, for example by bringing relevant or related content to the attention of the user and/or making others aware of the conversation. The intention signals derived from the UGC may be used to fashion or update a user profile or inform a broader view of the individual associated with the UGC.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08521818&OS=08521818&RS=08521818
owner: Solariat, Inc.
number: 08521818
owner_city: Danville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120621
---
This is a CONTINUATION IN PART of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 040 092 filed Mar. 3 2011 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 271 583 which is a CONTINUATION of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 851 489 filed Aug. 5 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 921 156 each of which is assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to methods and systems for recognizing intentions of a user as expressed in an on line conversation or similar environment and subsequently acting upon same for example by bringing relevant or related content to the attention of the user and or making others aware of the conversation.

The World Wide Web WWW or simply the Web is the well known collection of interlinked hypertext documents hosted at a vast number of computer resources hosts communicatively coupled to one another over networks of computer networks known as the Internet. These documents which may include text multimedia files and images are typically viewed as web pages with the aid of a web browser a software application running on a user s computer system. Collections of related web pages that can be addressed relative to a common uniform resource locator URL are known as websites and are typically hosted on one or more web servers accessible via the Internet.

In recent years websites featuring user generated content UGC that is content created and posted to websites by end users have become increasingly popular. UGC accounts for a wide variety of content including news gossip audio video productions photography and social commentary to name but a few. Content of this sort may be presented in any of a variety of forms including web logs blogs comments regarding website editor created content e.g. user reviews of products being offered for sale at a website status updates on social networking sites and question and answer databases commonly known as forums.

Advertisers were quick to recognize the potential power of the Web as it concerns access to potential consumers of goods and services. Models for capitalizing on the insertion of advertisements into websites quickly sprang up. Such advertisements came in various forms including banner ads which appear across portions of a web page and sponsored links which typically appear in designated sections of search result pages. However many Web users find such advertisements to be annoying in that they are often placed in locations of a web page that interrupt the user s reading or interaction with content on the page are contextually irrelevant and or are otherwise disruptive of the web browsing experience. The situation is compounded when dealing with websites featuring UGC because contributors to such sites often have a low tolerance for advertisements on the sites that are perceived as not relevant to the content. At the same time advertising is one of the primary ways in which website operators offset the cost of producing content and otherwise maintaining websites.

In various embodiments the present invention provides systems and methods for recognizing intentions of a user as expressed in an on line conversation or other UGC and subsequently acting upon same for example by bringing relevant or related content to the attention of the user and or making others aware of the conversation. In addition the present methods and systems may be used to integrate intention signals of a user derived from an on line conversation or posting with a profile of that individual to inform a broader view of the individual.

In one embodiment of the invention an intention type and intention topic of an utterance contained within the UGC is determined and on the basis of the intention type and intention topic one or more possible actions to be taken are selected. These possible actions may be scored for example according to an assessment of actionability of the UGC and various ones of the actions taken or not taken according to their respective scores. Among the possible actions which may be taken are presenting candidate creatives via the social media platform at which the UGC was posted informing one or more others of the UGC and updating a user profile to account for the intention type and topic. In some instances the intention type may be identified on the basis of features extracted from the utterance and the intention topic may be identified on the basis of scored n grams obtained from the utterance. Such n grams may be scored using rules applicable to the identified intention type.

These and other examples of the features and uses of the present invention are described further below.

Described herein are methods and systems for recognizing intentions of a user as expressed in an on line conversation or other UGC hosted on a social media or other website or an instant message IM or similar conversation Twitter tweets social network page commentary e mail threads forum hosted discussion boards etc. or similar environment e.g. individual postings to social networking sites blogs tweets etc. and subsequently acting upon same for example by bringing relevant or related content to the attention of the user and or making others aware of the conversation. Alternatively or in addition the present methods and systems may be used to integrate intention signals of a user derived from an on line conversation or posting with a profile of that individual to inform a broader view of the individual. Such profiles may be constructed from a variety of sources including but not limited to information derived from past conversations and or posting self expressed social networking profiles etc. When used as a means of determining advertising to present to users the present methods and systems may yield advertisement click through rates that are at least an order of magnitude better than those observed with conventional on line advertising e.g. as practiced using banners pop ups and other forms of advertisements that are supposedly tailored to particular users.

To better understand the environment within which the present methods and systems operate consider the network illustrated in . Included in this network are various servers each hosting one or more takeoff sites . Each takeoff site may include one or more takeoff pages . The takeoff sites may be social media sites in which users are engaged in some sort of on line social conversation with other users but may also be any sites at which UGC is posted e.g. in the form of an on line conversation or otherwise . Hence the takeoff pages may be forum pages blogs social network sites chat windows product or other review pages audio video hosting sites photo sharing sites etc.

Also part of network are a number of servers hosting landing sites any or each of which may be made up of a plurality of landing pages . Notice that a server hosting a takeoff site with one or more takeoff pages may also host one or more landing sites any or each of which may include one or more landing pages . That is any server may host any combination of takeoff and or landing sites. When we refer to content on a takeoff site or landing site we mean to include content that is located on a particular takeoff page of a takeoff site or landing page of a landing site as appropriate.

The takeoff and landing sites are accessed by users via client systems . The client systems may in some cases be computer systems such as personal computers or the like but more generally may be any computer based or processor based device that executes application software which allows the content of the takeoff landing site to be rendered for display to the user on a display device. For example client systems may include computer systems mobile devices such as iPads smart phones mobile phones etc. and the application software may be web browser software such as Microsoft Corporation s Internet Explorer Apple Inc. s Safari or Google Inc. s Chrome or instant messaging software such as Apple Inc. s iChat America Online Inc. s AIM etc. In some instances dedicated applications or apps running on mobile computing platforms such as tablet computers smart phones etc. may be employed. Such apps often provide improved user experiences in the context of associated web sites and portals than those afforded through the use of web browser applications as they make use of dedicated application programming interfaces APIs for the associated websites. Any or all of the above described applications are typically stored in one or more computer readable storage devices accessible to one or more processors of the subject client system and when executed cause the processor s to perform the operations necessary to render the subject sites pages for display at the subject system e.g. via a display device communicatively coupled to the processor . The various constituents of network are communicatively coupled to one another via one or more computer data networks which may include the Internet and other networks coupled thereto. The precise nature of network is not critical to the present invention.

Network also includes server which hosts a matching and decision engine . The matching and decision engine implements an embodiment of the present invention however in other embodiments the function of this engine may be instantiated in multiple distributed entities. Accordingly the embodiment illustrated in should be regarded as merely a convenient example for purposes of the following discussion and not as a limitation of the present invention.

Matching and decision engine is configured for the automatic detection of UGC at a subject takeoff site and the subsequent automated determination of any actionable user intention with respect to a product or service for example expressed within that UGC. That determination of user intention may then trigger one or more actions including bringing the UGC which may be a conversation or a solitary posting to the attention of others e.g. other users an advertiser or the advertiser s proxy or combinations thereof replying to the UGC e.g. with one or more links to content deemed to be relevant to the subject of the UGC and or to the user and or integrating this intention signal with other information known about the user in a user profile which itself may form one basis for subsequent advertisements or other content directed at the user.

In one example the actionable intention may be the recognition of a need of the user e.g. a need for a particular product or service or perhaps a need for information concerning a particular subject. The matching and decision engine may determine a set and here a set may be one or more of candidate creatives to present to the user by way of insertion into the on line conversation present on the takeoff site. These creatives may serve as attractive lures inducing the user and or others engaged in the conversation hyperlinks included in the creatives material present on one or more of the landing site s that is relevant to the conversation on the takeoff site. In some cases the creatives including their associated links to the landing sites may be advertisements ads but other forms of creatives may also be used. In some instances the selection of the one or more creatives to present within the conversation may be an entirely automated process while in other cases human editors may filter a group of creatives proposed by the matching and decision engine to select one or more creatives deemed well suited for presentation in the context of the conversation.

Creatives may be fashioned using templates and in one embodiment of the invention a library of templates is stored in and obtained from a templates database which is communicatively coupled to the matching and decision engine. This templates database may be hosted at the same or a different server than the matching and decision engine. A separate or common database of landing page URLs is also maintained either at server or another server and is likewise communicatively coupled and accessible to the matching and decision engine . Candidate landing pages may be obtained by receiving a content feed making an API call or performing a crawl of one or more landing sites and the candidate creatives may be generated either by hand or by a set of heuristics based on textual analysis of the respective takeoff and landing sites.

Matching and decision engine may be configured to provide not just a single best matching creative for a subject posting or other UGC element received or obtained from an on line conversation and here a conversation may be simply a posting by a single individual and not a two or multi way dialog among two or more individuals . Instead in some cases the matching and decision engine may be configured to provide a number of creatives deemed relevant to a point in the conversation e.g. responsive to the actionable intention determined to exist within a posting or an entire thread . Thus the matching and decision engine may deliver one or more creatives assessed to be the most suitable from an available pool of creatives including in some cases creatives that are established or created in real time in response to the UGC . In some cases no creative will be delivered for example where the matching and decision engine fails to identify a truly actionable intention or where an actionable intention is identified but is deemed not to be suitable for response by way of delivering a creative. These assessments involve determining an intention type and topic e.g. to at least a predetermined confidence level evaluating the actionability of the intention topic and selecting one or more creatives for presentation and or deciding not to present a creative for example on the basis of relevance scores of the creatives computed with respect to the determined intention type and topic.

Process begins with a post being received at or harvested by server . By post we mean any form of UGC including but not limited to posts or updates to a social media site whether as part of a multi participant conversation or otherwise tweets postings on blogs forums and the like comments made at third party web sites etc. The posts may be received and or harvested in real time and or in accordance with a schedule determined by an operator of server and or customers of such operator.

Once obtained the post is tokenized . Tokenizing breaks the string of text that makes up the post into words phrases symbols or other meaningful elements tokens . This can be regarded as segregating the post into words however the term words should be read broadly and is not intended to indicate that all tokens are actually equivalent to the familiar linguistic units commonly understood as words.

Once tokenized the post is subjected to utterance segmentation . In this step the various phrases in a post are divided up into discrete utterances also known as speech acts . For example a post such as 

Utterance segmentation is not mandatory but it is preferred. Some posts may contain multiple different thoughts expressions etc. and so trying to determine an appropriate set of one or more creatives for response can be difficult unless the post is segmented into utterances. By segmenting a post into utterances better overall results in terms of the quality of the creative s delivered to the user making the post can be achieved.

Once the post has been segmented into utterances if such segmentation is employed feature extraction can take place. Feature extraction may be accomplished using machine learning heuristics or other techniques to represent the utterance in vector form. In one example we use a bag of words representation model whereby each position in the vector is associated with a word token and the value at a given position in the vector represents the importance of the associated token within the utterance. Importance can be measured in several different ways including but not limited to 

When generating the vector representation of a given utterance a service provider may choose to weight word tokens within a post title more strongly than words that occur in the post body. It is also often advisable to use normalized vectors when generating similarity scores between vectors.

The output of the feature extraction process is a feature vector which is applied as an input to a classifier . The classifier examines the feature vector to produce an intention type according to various rule sets. Intention types which are determined on a per utterance basis may include questions needs problems likes dislikes check ins etc.

Once the intention type information is determined the utterance undergoes Pextration to determine intention topics. Pis a shorthand expression for a measure of confidence that the extracted topic the actual topic of interest for example a key noun phrase. Pextraction is a linguistics based approach rather than a pure keyword matching with sliding window technique to identifying key noun phrases in the utterances. These key noun phrases are deemed to be the topic of the intention expressed in the utterance. For example in the utterance I want stickers for my laptop the specified intention or intention type is an expression of desire want and the topic of that expressed desire is stickers not a laptop . A keyword based approach may have difficulty distinguishing between the stickers or the laptop as the true intention topic of the utterance. By relying on a linguistics based approach rather than a mere keyword based approach however the present method ensures that the true intention topic stickers is correctly identified more often than not.

The Pextraction process is discussed in greater detail with reference to . The utterance is provided to a tagging process in which parts of speech elements in the utterance are tagged. The tagged utterance is then analyzed for n grams . This involves using the identified noun phrases as anchor points and generating the n grams around the noun phrases. The n grams may be uni grams bi grams tri grams or more complex structures. Generally longer n grams provide better results than shorter n grams. The n gram generation is performed independent of any influence by intention type and is a purely linguistic analysis. The result of the n gram generation is a list of possible intention topics. These possible topics are then scored according to intention type in an iterative process the output of which is that one of the possible intention topics is deemed to be the most likely intention topic for the subject utterance.

Using n grams as opposed to simply using uni grams expands the list of possible intention topics from that which it might otherwise include. For example in the utterance I want a laptop bag if only uni grams were considered then the possible intention topics might be laptop or bag . If actions such as the delivery of advertisements concerning either a laptop or a bag but not specifically a bag for a laptop were returned in response to this utterance it is highly likely the actions would lead to unsatisfactory outcomes or be meaningless e.g. the advertisements likely would be ignored because they would not be relevant to the true intention topic the laptop bag .

The scoring procedure may start with heuristics based scoring of the n grams produced during the n gram generation. Then the intention type information from the classifier can be leveraged to refine the score. For example by knowing the intention type of an utterance a defined rule set for the subject utterance can be employed to identify and match common word patterns at the level of parts of speech for that intention type as a way to boost the scores of certain n grams. Consider for example an utterance such as I need a bag. This is an expression of a need the intention type and commonly for such intention types the word or phrase more generally the n gram immediately following the verb that expresses the intention type will be the topic of the intention. This is an example of a proximity rule for this intention type. Other rules for this intention type and rules for other intention types may be employed to score each possible intention topic n gram and the n gram with the highest score may be determined to be the best or most likely intention topic for the utterance.

Returning to the intention type and intention topic along with the original post are provided to a query formulation process . Here a search is developed and made for possible creatives to return in response to the post. The search may be performed against a database of creatives such as database and the output will be a set of candidate creatives . In cases where action s other than the return of creatives is desired a search may be made over databases including the relevant items appropriate for the desired action s . For example where one desired action is transmission of an alert to one or more persons the search may be made over one or more databases including profiles of individuals to be notified in the event specified intention types topics are identified.

In parallel the intention type topic and original post are provided to an actionability classification procedure to determine whether or not the intention topic is actionable. By actionable we mean an intention topic that is worthy of taking action or for which it is permissible to do so e.g. in the form of returning an advertisement etc. . The actionability determination is then used to assist in scoring the candidate creatives according to their relevance. The result s is are reported as matches i.e. the creative s advertisement s deemed most relevant to the original post as measured by its their relevance to the intention topic of that post.

The present process of determining matching creatives for a subject post thus involves much more than merely determining sentiment as is done in other processes . Understanding sentiment alone is typically an insufficient basis on which to take action e.g. by responding with a creative . For example sentiment may reveal information about a like or dislike of a person making a post but it alone says nothing about that individual s needs wants check ins e.g. location based intentions etc. Stated differently sentiment is not the same as actionable intention information.

To ensure a high probability of success e.g. success being measured by a recipient acting upon a creative returned in response to a post creatives are not purely arbitrary sentences they are designed to have a structure tailored to the context of the conversation in which they are to be inserted. As illustrated in a creative may be thought of as consisting of slots including a slot for a template and another slot for a URL or other direction aiding material to the landing site page. The templates may be made up of an introduction which is intended to identify the reason and source of message e.g. for more information about x y z . . . or We at company x believe that you can get valuable sources of help at . . . and a call to action which invites the user to do something. The minimal form of such an invitation may be to click on a link i.e. to select a link to the landing site by executing a mouse click while the screen cursor displayed on a client system is indicating the URL portion of the creative but the call to action can go beyond this to some form of cognitive action like learn study understand see etc.

The entries or content for each slot of a creative may be derived from background knowledge or experience of an operator or administrator of an ad insertion service that operates server e.g. an advertising professional who might have developed certain kinds of preferred introductions for different situations as well as content gleaned automatically from the takeoff and landing sites or related domain content e.g. Wikipedia content regarding a particular subject or content from similar conversations . Concepts or themes are sets of words that express some fundamental meaning of the domain e.g. when discussing automobiles the term sports utility vehicle has a certain connotation and such concepts can be entities or properties of entities such as SSRI side effects or user intentions like great value deal . The introduction will tend to be the template component that contains references to such concepts e.g. for information about SSRI side effects . . . while the call to action will tend to reference the user cognitive action to be taken and a landing page address. Of course template slots other than just introductions and calls to action may also be present in the templates and if present these too would be populated when creating the templates database. For example a slot called conversational reference which can contain references to content or properties of the conversation may be employed. Or some templates may have two possible calls to action e.g. do x OR do y . The full set of creatives is therefore the set of all possible compositions of the elements from each of the slots.

In accordance with the present invention the template and landing page databases may be populated on an on going basis and used to formulate the creative s . In the case of the templates database this involves populating each of the introduction and call to action slots with candidates and storing the results. That is server e.g. the matching and decision engine or a separate template creation engine not shown in detail may automatically create all possible combinations of introductions and calls to action the product of the two and store these combinations in template database . For the landing page database a crawl an API call or other content gathering means may be employed to populate database . The full inventory of possible creatives may then be created by appending all possible landing page URLs from the landing page database to each template from the template database and storing the results in a creative database . Creatives may be created in advance and or real time or quasi real time for example in response to a trigger. Once the various databases have been populated assuming they are used the above described matching process in order to determine candidate creatives to be presented to a user on a takeoff page may be employed.

By analyzing the contents of sites such as web pages forums and other forms of social media then systems configured in accordance with the present invention are able to determine actionable intentions of users of the sites and recommend or even take contextually relevant actions such as for example inserting links and associated text at appropriate points in a conversation directing users to other on line material that may be helpful to them alerting others to the existence and or content of the conversation updating or constructing user profiles etc. . To maximize the relevance of these actions to users these systems are preferably designed to detect and respond to important conversational indicators such as particular intention types and topics expressed within an online posting. By matching the intention type and topics presented by an author against a set of potential actions the present systems can select and take those actions most relevant to the authored post. For example a query directive could be linked to content that provides either a direct answer to the question being asked or to other material that may be helpful. In other instances a number of links to content whose tenor tone and meaning are determined to be relevant and perhaps useful in the context of the conversation may be presented.

In the discussion above we use the term creative to designate that portion of the content being inserted into the conversation which is intended for presentation to the conversation participants and or others i.e. intended to be viewed by them but this should not be read as restricting the present invention solely to means for inserting commercial content. By creatives we mean a broader construct which may include some combination of links or other direction aiding materials text audio and or visual elements. Creatives may be portions of larger constructs which we refer to as payloads . A payload may include content in addition to a creative which other content is not itself intended for display to conversation participants or others but which may be used to direct placement of the creative within a takeoff page to gather statistics from the takeoff page or provide for or perform another function. For example a payload may include computer readable instructions or computer interpretable tags or other information. In some instances a creative will be the sole constituent of a payload but this is not necessarily so.

The location s at which the creatives are presented which is generally also the location at which the conversation is taking place is referred to as a takeoff site and the location s to which users are directed when they click on one of the links or follow the direction aiding materials is referred to as a landing site but this should not be read as restricting the present invention solely to websites. In the context of takeoff and landing sites the term site is intended to encompass respectively any environment where conversations may occur and any environment to which the conversation participants or others reading the conversation might be directed.

Takeoff sites include takeoff pages at which individual conversations or portions thereof may be displayed instantiated or presented. Landing sites include landing pages at which the content deemed to be of interest to the conversation participants or others reading the conversation may be hosted or otherwise made accessible. Thus while a takeoff site is typically a social media site at which users are engaged in some sort of network enabled social conversation with one or more other users this need not necessarily be the case and the term may also encompass software applications in which conversations are hosted as well as IM threads etc. Likewise landing sites can consist of either other on line conversations on social media sites including but not limited to the same site as the takeoff site or sites containing curated content but may also be software applications IM threads etc. The aim is to enrich a user s social media experience and also enhance the value of curated content and existing conversational threads by providing users with natural entry points to new conversations that key off important elements of a conversation which they are already viewing or engaging in.

If creatives are to be provided for display the decision and matching engine passes the creatives or links to same to the subject takeoff site where the creatives are displayed near i.e. in a contextually relevant location for the original post. For example the creatives may be displayed next in order in the conversation thread or may be displayed alongside the conversation thread so as not to be disruptive thereto. This may be accomplished through the use of instructions included with the creative in the payload code injected into the takeoff page or by code in a software application which code or instructions direct the placement of the creatives from server .

The present invention thus determines for a given message or group of messages in a conversation e.g. an on line conversation presented at a takeoff page one or more contextually meangingful creatives and suitable landing page s whose contents taken together are relevant for the contents of that message or group of messages . If there is a sufficiently strong match that creative and the URL of the landing page or links to same are provided for display on the takeoff page e.g. in a contextually relevant location with respect to the takeoff message thereby providing a recommendation to the people engaged in or monitoring the conversation of additional content that can enhance their conversational experience.

The matching procedure described above provides a method for selecting relevant creatives based on textual data available from the takeoff page s templates and landing page s . This process may be enhanced to take into account other information for example feedback available from usage logs that track user interaction with the creatives such as mouseovers or clicks and or subsquent user actions such as product purchases or page visits within a landing site. That is an adaptive component which takes into account user behavior can be added to the above described matching procedure by for example altering the score of a given landing page depending on the clickthrough response a creative has received in the past user behavior at the landing site or other user behavior of interest.

The foregoing discussion highlights the ability of the present system to provide system operators with conversational strategies that is strategies for content insertions in conversations. For example recall that in the construction of a creative there are a number of slots that can be filled. If we regard the theme as one such slot then for a fixed theme the content of the other creative slots can be permitted to vary and the set of results will be thematically invariant but otherwise distinct creatives. Different ones of these creatives can then be used within one or more conversational contexts and the results monitored to determine which is the best set of creative content for the defined theme. Stated differently the present infrastructure allows a determination of a solution to the question which creative content is best for a given theme.

Other problem constructs may involve determining the best time to insert a creative into a conversation. For example analysis of the results of inserting creatives into conversations of varying conversational velocity or into one conversation under conditions of different conversational velocity may reveal information that allows service providers to chose optimum or near optimum times to insert future creatives so as to maximize the likelihood that URLs associated with those creatives will be selected by participants in the conversation.

The sum of the results from these kinds of learning instances facilitated by the above described infrastructure gives rise to conversational strategies. Stated differently the present invention provides means for determining what theme to match with what creative content when best to insert creatives in a conversation and a host of other information relative to deciding which content to insert in which conversations and when.

As is apparent from the foregoing discussion aspects of the present invention involve the use of various computer systems and computer readable storage media having computer readable instructions stored thereon. provides an example of a computer system that is representative of any of the servers or client systems discussed herein. Note not all of the various computer systems may have all of the features of computer system . For example certain of the servers discussed above may not include a display inasmuch as the display function may be provided by a client computer communicatively coupled to the server. Such details are not critical to the present invention. Computer systems such as computer system may be referred to by other names for example as hand held devices mobile devices smart phones multiprocessor systems microprocessor based electronic devices digital signal processor based devices networked computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers personal computers servers laptop computers tablet computers and the like. Such labels are not critical to the present invention.

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information and a processor coupled with the bus for processing information. Computer system also includes a main memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device coupled to the bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Computer system further includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information and instructions for the processor . A storage device which may be one or more of a floppy disk a flexible disk a hard disk flash memory based storage medium magnetic tape or other magnetic storage medium a compact disk CD ROM a digital versatile disk DVD ROM or other optical storage medium or any other storage medium from which processor can read is provided and coupled to the bus for storing information and instructions e.g. operating systems applications programs and the like .

Computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a flat panel display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control device such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on the display . Other user interface devices such as microphones speakers etc. are not shown in detail but may be involved with the receipt of user input and or presentation of output.

The processes referred to herein may be implemented by processor executing appropriate sequences of computer readable instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device and execution of the sequences of instructions contained in the main memory causes the processor to perform the associated actions. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry or firmware controlled processing units e.g. field programmable gate arrays may be used in place of or in combination with processor and its associated computer software instructions to implement the invention. The computer readable instructions may be rendered in any computer language including without limitation C C C Fortran COBOL PASCAL assembly language markup languages e.g. HTML SGML XML VoXML and the like as well as object oriented environments such as the Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA Java and the like. In general all of the aforementioned terms are meant to encompass any series of logical steps performed in a sequence to accomplish a given purpose which is the hallmark of any computer executable application. Unless specifically stated otherwise it should be appreciated that throughout the description of the present invention use of terms such as processing computing calculating determining displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of an appropriately programmed computer system such as computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within its registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within its memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to the bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication channel with a computer network such as network in which provides connectivity to and among the various servers discussed above. For example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN which itself is communicatively coupled to the Internet through one or more Internet service provider networks. The precise details of such communication paths are not critical to the present invention. What is important is that computer system can send and receive messages and data through the communication interface and in that way communication with hosts accessible via the Internet.

The various databases described herein are computer based record keeping systems. Stated differently these databases are each a combination of computer hardware and software that act together to allow for the storage and retrieval of information data . Accordingly they may resemble computer system and are often characterized by having storage mediums capable of accommodating significant amounts of information.

The various hardware components of computer system are represented as a hardware layer . An operating system abstracts the hardware layer and acts as a host for various applications that run on computer system . In the case of server the operating system acts as a host for a matching and decision engine which is configured to perform the processes described above e.g. to provide creative selections and insertions or other actions . For a server and or the operating system may host a web server application which provides access from the client computers via web browsers. Such a web server may also be hosted on server to provide an interface by which the host servers and may communicate with server . In the case of a client system the operating system acts as a host for a Web browser application but not a matching and decision engine or typically a web server.

As alluded to above network may include the Internet and the various servers and client computers communicatively coupled thereto may include computer systems such as computer system that are made up of one or more processors associated memory typically volatile and non volatile and other storage devices and peripherals that allow for connection to the Internet or other networks. The precise hardware configuration of the hosting and client resources is generally not critical to the present invention nor are the precise algorithms used to implement the services and methods described herein. Instead the focus is on the nature of the services provided by the present invention.

Thus methods and systems for recognizing intentions of a user as expressed in an on line conversation or similar environment and subsequently acting upon same for example by bringing relevant or related content to the attention of the user and or making others aware of the conversation have been described. The present invention uses both intention type and topic to determine candidate creatives and or other actions and evaluates those candidates according to an assessment of the actionability of the intention in order to determine which if any should be returned to the participants in the conversation. This process can also take into account various factors such as campaign management requirements e.g. creative exposure limits and conversational statistics to decide whether to place a creative or which creative to deliver. Further determining which if any of the creatives to be displayed may include information about the devices on which the creative may be displayed. For example screen size limit or text string length limit may be considered.

In various embodiments of the invention the decision process may also incorporate learning based on past experiences with the creatives. For example user interaction with previous instances of the creatives when inserted into takeoff pages may be tracked and used when deciding which if any creatives to provide for insertion. Moreover such experience may be used in the matching process when deciding which introductions calls to action and other components to combine with one another to form a creative. Likewise past experience with creative placement within a takeoff page may be monitored and used to aid the decision about when to insert a creative in a takeoff page. Further features or metrics regarding the conversation such as conversational velocity may be monitored and used as a guide for deciding whether and when to insert creatives. Such functions may be incorporated in the matching and decision engine as appropriate.

Of course the present invention is not limited to being used in conjunction with the insertion of creatives into on line conversations. In various embodiments the present systems and methods may be employed to alert others e.g. those not currently engaged in the on line conversation to the existence and or content of the conversation e.g. as an enticement to join the conversation to take action with respect to the conversation to monitor or moderate the conversation etc. . Further intention type and topic as determined by the present methods and systems may be used to create augment inform or otherwise include or interact with one or more user profiles. Such profiles may be fashioned over a period of time in order to develop a more complete understanding of a particular user which understanding may be used to determine which advertisements to present to the user and when to present them etc.

In the foregoing discussion the focus has been on creating links to guide users from conversational content to curated content but in general the present methods and systems may be employed to create and insert links between any content of different modes. So for example the present methods and systems can be used to deliver curated content to sites hosting conversational content. In this regard curated content can be regarded broadly as any content under editorial control of a site operator or even profiles of individuals e.g. Web based biographies or profiles commonly associated with social networking sites or service provider sites . For example links to such profiles may be used to suggest certain people e.g. a subject matter expert to join a conversation or answer a question or even the reverse e.g. suggest that a person join a particular conversation because he she would provide information of value to that conversation. Thus the referral process afforded by the present invention operates in a direction from conversation to curated a takeoff page hosting conversational content to a landing page hosting curated content or vice versa. Indeed one could use the present methods for mapping conversations to conversations for example across on line communities.

Given the various instances in which the present systems and methods find application it should be recognized that the examples presented in the foregoing description were provided merely for purposes of illustration and should not be read as unduly limiting the present invention.

