---

title: Transmitting delay-tolerant data with other network traffic
abstract: The disclosed subject matter relates to an architecture that can opportunistically leverage existing periods of inactivity or low activity for sending data at virtually no marginal cost. In particular, the architecture can receive data that is to be transmitted over a communications network. The data can be examined to determine whether or not the data is delay-tolerant. If so, then such data can be stored to a staging queue. The data can then be transmitted at a later time, particularly during a high-energy state facilitated by a different data transaction, but for which there are inactive or low-activity times.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08611213&OS=08611213&RS=08611213
owner: AT&T Intelletual Property I, L.P.
number: 08611213
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120601
---
The present application relates generally to opportunistically leveraging existing periods of inactivity or low activity for sending data at reduced cost in terms of resource utilization.

Wide adoption of mobile devices along with ubiquitous cellular data coverage has resulted in an explosive growth of mobile applications that expect always accessible wireless networking. This explosion has placed strains on resources that are scarce in the mobile world handheld battery life and cellular network capacity. On the user side poor battery life due to non optimized mobile apps has been blamed for user dissatisfaction and phone returns. On the network side the growth rate of mobile data is outstripping the rate at which new cellular wireless capacity is being added leading to proposals for optimization of data use through techniques such as WI FI offloading.

The following presents a simplified summary of the disclosed subject matter in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the disclosed subject matter. This summary is not an extensive overview of the disclosed subject matter. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the disclosed subject matter nor delineate the scope of the disclosed subject matter. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the disclosed subject matter in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In some embodiments a system can execute instructions associated with receiving data to be transmitted by way of a communications network. Instructions can be executed to determine if the data is tolerant to a delay and to store the data to a staging queue in the event the data is tolerant to the delay. Instructions can also be executed to transmit the data by way of the communications network during an inactive period associated with a different communications transaction.

In other embodiments a method can be provided. The method can include receiving transmission data identified for transmission by way of a communications network and determining that the transmission data is delay tolerant. The method can also include storing the transmission data in a queue in response to the transmission data being determined to be delay tolerant. The method can transmit the transmission data over the communications network during an inactive period associated with a different communication transaction.

In some embodiments a non transitory computer readable storage medium including computer executable instructions can be provided. Such instructions can cause a computing system including a processor to receive transmission data to be transmitted via a communications network and to determine that the transmission data is tolerant to a delay. The instructions can also facilitate maintaining the transmission data in a queue in response to the transmission data being determined to be tolerant to the delay and to transmit the transmission data via the communications network during an inactive period associated with a different communication transaction.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the disclosed subject matter. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the disclosed subject matter may be employed and the disclosed subject matter is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and distinguishing features of the disclosed subject matter will become apparent from the following detailed description of the disclosed subject matter when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

Because the acquisition of cellular network resources incurs large signaling and latency costs e.g. up to 2 seconds resources are reserved for several seconds once in use. The extra time at the end of a reservation is usually called the tail and is a tool to minimize signaling costs when traffic is intermittent yet somewhat closely spaced. Thus depending on the precise timing of data streams network usage characteristics such as energy requirements latency and bandwidth vary widely even within a single location. Ignoring these dynamics can result in significant wastage of scarce network resources and energy. For example it has recently been shown that for a popular music streaming mobile application 3.6 of the traffic consumes 64.1 of the network device energy and produces the vast majority of the network signaling.

On the user side one of the primary drains of a battery for a mobile device is the communication radio modem. Mobile operating systems that manage these and other resources typically are very aggressive in turning these resources off when not in use in order to prolong battery life for the end user. However when the user makes a call or accesses the service provider s network for another reason the radio must be powered up. Switching the radio on to a higher powered state reduces battery life for the mobile device and is also extremely taxing on the service provider s network as a great deal of signaling occurs in order to initiate the connection.

Therefore from the perspective of the mobile device the mobile operating system can increase battery life by switching the radio off immediately after use and switching back on only when additional data needs to be transferred even though sometimes such might occur only moments later. Indeed this is the approach of many of today s application designers. However from the perspective of the mobile service provider such is too costly in terms of resources since once the initial signaling has established a connection it is preferable to maintain the connection slightly longer to receive additional data rather than allowing the device to switch the radio off then back on potentially only after a few moments. As a result most mobile service providers choose a compromise between utilization of their own resources and those of the mobile device.

Typically service providers place a limit on the number of times a mobile device can turn their radios on off within a given period. While the actual settings might differ among carriers service providers such constraints are generally encoded by a state machine that describes the different power states and the transition times required before transferring to another state. For example conventional service providers require that once a radio switches to its highest powered state that high powered state must be maintained for a certain time generally several seconds after the last byte of data has been transmitted. This is known as an idle time out period in which the radio of a mobile device is powered up the connection is maintained yet no data is being exchanged

However the connection is maintained in this idle time out state in the event some data does need to be exchanged since it is preferred that the radio stay on a few moments longer than to take the risk that by shutting down the radio the radio will need to be powered up again and concomitant signaling with the host network immediately thereafter.

In the aggregate these idle time out periods account for a significant amount of time and are not likely to be dispensed with by service providers because of the high cost of establishing a new connection after a previous one is terminated. Hence in view of the fact that these idle time out periods exist in conventional communications networks the disclosed subject matter describes systems and methods to leverage these periods for opportunistic use thereby enabling both the mobile device and the host network to operate more efficiently.

For example data traffic can be categorized into two or more classes e.g. interactive and delay tolerant. Interactive traffic can relate to data that generally requires instantaneous and or real time transmission such as calls web browsing or the like. Data traffic classified as interactive can otherwise behave as already occurs in conventional networks. However data traffic classified as delay tolerant e.g. data exchanges for which there is no need for instantaneous transfer can behave differently. In particular delay tolerant traffic can be stored rather than transmitted immediately. Delay tolerant traffic need not initiate a change in state of the radio but rather can be transmitted within the bursts of interactive traffic and therefore leverage unused resources such as the idle time out periods that commonly exist. Transmission of delay tolerant data during transmission of other data is referred to herein as traffic backfilling. Delay tolerant traffic can relate to e.g. email checking or other operations really simple syndication RSS checking ad traffic update checking backup and synchronization operations offload of security checks readings for cooperative sensing certain buffered exchanges and so forth.

In addition applications or service providers can be afforded additional control such as determining which data or which type of data is classified as either interactive or delay tolerant. Moreover control can be extended to determine when to move traffic in or out of delay tolerant queues or to trigger eventual transmission of traffic e.g. clearing if e.g. enough delay tolerant data is accumulated.

Interactive traffic can receive the same or better quality of service as usual. Indeed interactive traffic can be improved because the energy state of the radio modem and the signaling done to reserve network resources can be utilized to move much more data than otherwise. Specifically the delay tolerant data that is staged and waiting to piggyback on a burst can significantly improve overall network efficiency and or performance. The marginal costs of transmitting the delay tolerant traffic can be virtually zero yet significant costs would be required to transmit that data in conventional systems. In fact experimentation shows that with identical macro energy states during a given period and with no additional signaling of any kind an estimated three additional delay tolerant bytes can be piggybacked for every byte of interactive traffic transmitted over a given communications network.

The disclosed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosed subject matter. It may be evident however that the disclosed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the disclosed subject matter.

Referring now to the drawing with reference initially to system that can leverage periods of inactivity that would otherwise exist for sending delay tolerant data is depicted. Generally system can include a memory that stores computer executable instructions and a processor communicatively coupled to the memory that facilitates execution of the computer executable instructions examples of which can be found with reference to .

In particular system can receive data that is to be transmitted by way of communications network . Thus data can relate to any type of data and or traffic that is exchanged over communications network . Communications network can be e.g. a wireless communications network. It is noted that in conventional systems when data to be transmitted over the network is acquired a connection is established between service provider network components and end user device components. Whether the data is incoming or outgoing the user device powers up an internal radio and the network components process a significant amount of signaling and reserve resources for the exchange.

Instead of immediately initiating a communication session upon receipt of data as would occur in conventional systems system can determine if data is delay tolerant. If data is not delay tolerant but rather is interactive then data can be transmitted as would normally occur. However if data is delay tolerant then data can be stored to staging queue .

Staging queue can be embodied as substantially any type of memory and represents a temporary data store where all or portions of data might remain for a few seconds or less to several hours or more depending upon a variety of factors that are further detailed herein. Regardless at some time after data is stored to staging queue such data can be transmitted over communications network . Advantageously since such data is delay tolerant such need not occur upon receipt but rather can occur at opportunistic times such as during an inactive period associated with a different communication transaction.

As one example consider two data exchanges that occur at approximately the same time. The first transaction is a scheduled synchronization operation with a cloud server that is scheduled to occur at 12 00 pm every day and the second is an outgoing phone call by the same user at 12 01 pm. In conventional systems both of these transactions would initiate a battery power up and substantial signaling between the device and the network.

However by employing the disclosed subject matter resource utilization can be significantly reduced for both the user and the service provider while still exchanging the same amount of data. In particular system can identify the sync operation as delay tolerant and thus the radio of a user device is not immediately powered up and no signaling with the network is invoked. Rather data associated with the sync operation is temporarily moved to staging queue . One minute later the user initiates an outgoing call to a friend. Voice calls would likely be deemed interactive e.g. not delay tolerant and thus would not go to staging queue . Hence the voice call can facilitate a radio power up network signaling resource reservation etc. and all data that would otherwise be exchanged would occur normally. Yet in addition during the call either at moments with spare bandwidth such as the tail of the transaction or another inactive period data associated with the sync operation can be exchanged as well. Thus in terms of energy use or other resource utilization both transactions can occur at a cost that is essentially equal to only a single transaction. Such can be achieved by merely delaying the transaction associated with the sync operation by one minute in this example which is can be a minimal cost given that the sync operation is in fact delay tolerant and further considering wide latitude can be provided in determining what data is or is not delay tolerant.

Turning now to system is depicted. System illustrates various examples of determining data to be delay tolerant. For instance in some embodiments data can be determined to be delay tolerant based upon designation provided by application that is associated with data . In this case and continuing the previous example the application associated with the sync operation can designate any such data traffic as delay tolerant. In contrast an application and or core service associated with a phone dialer might on the other hand designate that data as interactive.

In other embodiments system can examine data and intelligently classify data according to an inferred degree of delay tolerance. For illustrative purposes transactions relating to e.g. web browsing incoming or outgoing calls or transactions that are typically expected to be instantaneous can be classified as interactive. Examples of delay tolerant data can relate to some portions of email transactions RSS transactions short message service SMS transactions update backup sync operations offload of security checks readings for cooperative sensing and so forth. In some cases even streaming downloads can be delay tolerant such as when scheduled or when buffered. Likewise in some cases certain portions of web browsing can be delay tolerant such as ad traffic or the like. Ad traffic consumes approximately 60 of the energy used in web browsing application. Thus if such data were to be classified as delay tolerant and delayed momentarily e.g. a few seconds substantially network wide savings could be achieved by implementing the disclosed subject matter.

Regardless of which data is classified as delay tolerant or not or how such is identified data classified as interactive e.g. not delay tolerant can be propagated by way of communications network . Data that is deemed to be delay tolerant however can be stored to staging queue as detailed previously.

In the simplest implementation the classification for data can be one of two categories delay tolerant or interactive. However it is understood that classification of data as delay tolerant can also involve various levels of granularity and or degrees of delay tolerance. For example some data might be delay tolerant up to e.g. 5 seconds while other data might be delay tolerant up to e.g. 5 minutes while still other data might be delay tolerant up to several hours or more.

Referring now to system is provided. System relates to clearing data out of staging queue . As detailed previously information stored in staging queue can be processed at advantageous times such as during inactive periods e.g. during the tail and or the idle time out period of other communication transactions. Additionally in some embodiments the determination to pull data out of staging queue and transmit that data over the communications network can be further based upon network conditions .

For example during periods of congestions at a given cell or other component of a provider s network data can remain in staging queue even through an otherwise available idle time out and or period of inactivity. Such can apply for data that is staged at the congested cell or other network component slated to be sent to a user device or data staged at a user device served by that cell to be delivered to the network. As such periods of congestion associated with the cell which are typically relatively transitory can be alleviated or mitigated by the disclosed subject matter.

In some embodiments system can be configured to perform an examination of staging queue . For instance consider the case in which a substantial amount of data is stored in the staging queue awaiting transmission such as in the event that no interactive events have occurred in some time. In such cases system can issue a clearing communication transaction to clear data from staging queue and transmit by way of communication network .

Clearing communication transactions can also be based upon network conditions such as during times of relatively low congestion at a serving cell. Clearing communication transaction can be initiated based upon a variety of other factors. Clearing communication transaction can be initiated based upon a size and or amount of data included in staging queue . For example if the amount of data included in staging queue surpasses a predefined threshold then clearing communication transaction can be initiated. In other examples clearing communication transaction can be initiated based upon an amount of time all or a portion of data has been in staging queue . For instance if data remains in staging queue beyond a predetermined time threshold such data can be cleared by way of clearing communication transaction . Additionally or alternatively clearing communication transaction can be invoked based upon a degree of delay tolerance associated with all or portions of data included in staging queue . Depending upon the classification of data in terms of delay tolerance some portions of data might be slated for clearing before other portions of data which can also leverage clearing communication transaction .

With reference now to system is provided. System illustrates use of a fast dormancy command that can be employed to simulate state transitions that would be expected had data included in the staging queue not been transmitted. For example in conventional systems when data is to be exchanged between a service provider s network and user devices the radio of a user device is powered up to a high powered state e.g. dedicated transport channel DCH . Once in this high powered state an inactivity timer starts after the last packet of information is exchanged. Most existing providers require that this inactivity timer expire without any further data being exchanged. Otherwise if data is exchanged while inactivity timer is counting the timer is reset. It is understood that a radio resource control RRC state machine can include other timers as well.

However given that the disclosed subject matter can advantageously make use of this inactive period by receiving data from staging queue reference numeral and intentionally sending that delay tolerant data over communications network reference numeral in connection with a different communication transaction e.g. while inactivity timer is counting it can be beneficial to ensure that such delay tolerant traffic does not otherwise extend the idle time out period. Such can be achieved by employing fast dormancy command . Fast dormancy command can be issued to RRC state machine to force the radio of a user device to transition to a lower powered state e.g. fast access transport channel FACH after which the radio will then customarily power down to an IDLE state . Given that the transmission of delay tolerant traffic during the tail or other inactive periods will likely cause associated inactivity timers to reset use of fast dormancy command can cause state transitions to occur as though no delay tolerant data was transmitted at all. Hence fast dormancy command can be issued to RRC state machine after all delay tolerant traffic has been transmitted or issued after a certain amount of delay tolerant traffic has been transmitted whether or not queue still includes delay tolerant data. Thus state transitions that occur when sending delay tolerant data can be managed to simulate the same states that would otherwise be expected had no delay tolerant data been sent as indicated by reference numeral . Additional details are provided in connection with .

Turning now to illustration is provided. Illustration depicts an example state diagram associated with a radio resource control state machine. The states provided in this example can be common to conventional wireless carriers and or service providers and thus leveraged to implement the disclosed subject matter in conventional architectures. In this example RRC state machine can manage three distinct states associated with a radio of a user device. The DCH state is associated with a high powered state which can be reached from either the FACH state e.g. a low powered state or the IDLE state .

These states and associated RRC state machine can facilitate management of resource allocation in connection with today s service providers such as energy use and network signaling. It is understood that in the remainder of the examples Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS networks are assumed. Although the focus is on the most widely used Third Generation 3G technology the basic principles remain the same for related technologies such as Long Term Evolution LTE .

UMTS mobile devices establish network connectivity through a UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN consisting of base stations or Node Bs and Radio Network Controllers RNCs . Each RNC handles a number of base stations and is responsible for controlling network resources. The RNC allocates these resources using per device RRC state machines whose transitions are triggered by device traffic exchanges and carrier determined inactivity timers. For example the state machine associated with illustration for a conventional carrier can include additional parameters summarized in Table I.

This state machine has an IDLE state in which the mobile device consumes no energy on its radio and no network resources. Upon network use the mobile device is promoted into a high bandwidth high energy consumption DCH state in which it is allocated a dedicated channel by the network. Typical signaling latency for moving to the DCH state is two seconds while devices consume between 570 mW to 800 mW in this state. After a few seconds of inactivity the user device is demoted to a shared channel FACH state in the hopes of satisfying marginal network use with a low bandwidth shared channel and lower energy usage 450 460 mW in average . Eventually after a second threshold of inactivity the mobile is downgraded from FACH back to the IDLE state. If on the other hand the mobile networking activity overflows a buffer in the Radio Link Control layer or RLC it is promoted again to the DCH state.

Thus each state of the RRC state machine dictates device s energy consumption and the network channels it can use. Transitions between low power states to high power states are triggered by network activity whereas transitions between high power states to low power states are triggered by inactivity timers. The inactivity timers are necessary to preclude spurious state transitions which add extra delays and impose non trivial network signaling overheads. The inactivity timers are tuned by network engineers to provide a healthy dose of hysteresis. There are as many variations on this state machine as there are carriers with different states different transitions and different thresholds for triggering them. But two key elements staged resource acquisition and hysteresis via inactivity timers remain across all variations.

With high speed packet access HSPA the latest revision to UMTS channel capacity can be allocated at a finer granularity within the DCH state. Channel scheduling of devices in the DCH state both up and downlink is performed by RNCs with a granularity of 10 ms or 2 ms. Thus once in DCH devices use as many 10 ms 2 ms scheduling periods as their traffic demands with little spectrum wastage. However the state machine still remains important because it determines the energy state of the mobile device modem radio and the signaling caused by transitions still places non trivial demands on the network s control plane.

Hence the disclosed backfilling can be employed as a new traffic scheduling technique that reuses unutilized gaps between bursts of traffic from interactive applications to send delay tolerant traffic. The operating system OS of a user device tracks RRC state machine transitions that result from interactive traffic alone and transmits backfill traffic during periods of inactivity within the DCH state. Such unused DCH periods exist because of the hysteresis imposed by the RRC state machine inactivity timers an example of which can be found with reference to .

To potentially achieve the lowest incremental cost backfilling can be configured to closely track the state machine transitions that would have occurred with interactive traffic only. Backfill traffic can therefore be ignored when computing the state machine trigger conditions summarized in Table I. Although the state machine is maintained within the RNC the trigger conditions we need can also be controlled indirectly entirely from the device itself through the use of fast dormancy e.g. fast dormancy command . Fast dormancy is a mechanism to allow devices to signal an immediate DCH to the IDLE transition to the RNC. Thus when the OS detects that the RRC state machine would have down transitioned if backfill traffic were absent the OS can initiate fast dormancy to transition to the IDLE state thus emulating the state machine s behavior in absence of backfill traffic.

Improper use of fast dormancy can substantially increase the frequency of RRC state changes and overload the network control plane by increasing signaling load. Therefore network carriers often work with vendors to disable or significantly restrict the use of fast dormancy. Preliminary investigation shows that none of the UMTS USB dongles available for a major US carrier had a fast dormancy API that was exposed to the OS however an undocumented AT command was discovered for Infineon chipsets. Unlike tail optimization approaches that advocate shortening of DCH tails the disclosed approach is compatible with such carrier restrictions on fast dormancy since such can be used to preserve the original state machine transitions.

The resulting delay tolerant backfill service is an eventually complete best effort service that at the OS or network provider s discretion can make arbitrary progress in reliably transmitting a stream of bytes to the receiver. Progress is not guaranteed for instance with the proper network support the network can ask to delay transmission of backfill traffic in periods of network congestion. Conversely the OS may batch and efficiently send a large chunk of backfill traffic even in the absence of any interactive traffic e.g. clearing communication transaction . In return for the flexibility provided in handling network congestion network providers may choose to provide economic incentives for backfill data either by charging lower per byte rates or by counting only a fraction of the transfer towards a user s data cap.

Thus an additional advantage of backfilling can be the simplicity of the application programming interface API exposed by the OS. At its core the backfilling API can allow applications to discriminate between interactive and delay tolerant traffic. For the sake of thoroughness an example API and successive extensions for finer grained control is provided. Without loss of generality the example API leverages Linux.

The traditional method for establishing network connections is the socket interface which allows for fine grained control via the setsockopt family of system calls. An initial setsockopt can be used by applications to tag sockets as transmitting delay tolerant traffic. An application can move the connection out of delay tolerant queues through an explicit flag setting or as a side effect of other socket control settings such as disabling Nagle s algorithm. Reads writes and completion status queries of a transfer can be supported via the aio family of asynchronous I O calls e.g. aio read aio write and aio error .

Delaying outbound traffic within the OS for backfilling can be relatively simple. Handling inbound traffic can be slightly more involved because such can require the remote sender to pause the network flow when there are no opportunities for backfilling. For short durations such can be accomplished without cooperation from the sender by using the TCP persist condition. Specifically the mobile OS can stall and resume a TCP flow by advertising a zero or non zero length TCP receiver window. Since the mobile device is then unreachable when the flows are stalled network support for responding to sender probe packets for stalled flows may be required. While all TCP implementations are required to support zero sized windows firewalls or applications can sometimes terminate long lived stalled connections to reclaim resources. In such situations or UDP flows more extensive network staging of inbound flows may be needed.

Unbounded wait is generally not desirable for delay tolerant traffic. Most delay tolerant traffic expects to be transmitted soon as opposed to right now and perhaps an equally accurate term would be non urgent traffic. Two bounds to trigger transmission of the accumulated delay tolerant traffic can be 1 wait time and 2 bytes accumulated. The former can trigger transmission if the oldest packet has waited for more than N seconds where N can be a predetermined value the latter can transmit once the byte count exceeds a B threshold where B can be a predetermined value. Bounds can also cause the same traffic aggregation effect sought by application modification techniques and the taps and preserves primitives of e.g. Cinder. Bounds can be applied globally through proc keys or on a per socket basis.

While much of the previous disclosure relates to application centric features other features can be discussed. For example the OS can readily detect periods of active resource reservation without any pending traffic to duty cycle. A callback mechanism allows the OS to signal to applications this transient opportunity to push further payloads on a backfilling window. The select family of system calls provides a good conduit. For example this family can allow applications to i decide when to wait ii aggregate multiple events in a single wait point and iii read from the OS via a pipe additional information such as the size of the current backfilling window.

On top of the OS interface a toolkit can expose multiple user space primitives to simplify application interaction with the backfilling machinery. Applications can set up staging areas for outbound payloads these applications can set up a publish subscribe mechanism to be alerted of arrival of messages. Or more generally the publish subscribe mechanisms can be structured as event driven loops with callbacks reacting to backfilling activity. While existing applications can benefit from transferring subsidized delay tolerant data backfilling can also enable wider use of applications that users may be reluctant to run otherwise. Below four applications are outlined along with the primitives those applications can leverage 

The plethora of sensors GPS accelerometer camera etc. on contemporary smart phones has resulted in the birth of participatory sensing applications in which phones upload sensor readings to data mining repositories. Such uploads can use a staging area to aggregate data until a backfilling opportunity arises.

With backfilling backup can be performed opportunistically and at a possibly lower price. This is a classical example of an event driven application triggering backup cycles upon availability of backfilling windows.

Periodic email and RSS polling represent characteristic examples of delay tolerant traffic that can be optimized for 3G networks through the use of staging areas for outbound email and publish subscribe pools for inbound RSS and email .

Recent proposals have recommended offloading security checking to cloud services at a high data transmission cost. Backfilling can turn such services into event driven loops and lower or eliminate transmission costs. The amount of tolerable delay for security responses can be easily tuned through the API.

It is appreciated that additional support for backfilling can be provided by measuring the size of the opportunity which can be accomplished in two phases. First focus can be placed on device centric measurements and then later extend the study to incorporate network wide metrics

Referring now to illustration is provided. Illustration depicts a graphical plot of DCH utilization vs. DCH time for traces of varying duration. In the instant case fifteen traces of UMTS networking traffic were harvested. The harvesting devices were a Windows 7 laptop with an Infineon based LG Adrenaline data card a Macbook Air laptop with an Option data card and an Android based Samsung Captivate phone with an Infineon built in modem. All modems were HSPA capable. In each case these devices already had an owner with established usage patterns. Thus the test simply turned on tracing disabled WIFI and Ethernet to ensure the UMTS network was used and let the user continue as usual. The durations of the traces were randomly distributed between as little as five minutes to over an hour 77 minutes to three full day traces around 1420 minutes .

Libpcap based utilities e.g. tcpdump wireshark etc. were used to harvest the data traces. Because libpcap presents packets as seen by the OS HSPA level MAC headers and retransmissions were not captured. The traces were then input to an emulated UMTS radio resource state machine following the parameters of and Table I. Such enabled the calculation assuming the traffic had occurred in a hypothetical Carrier network the time spent by the network devices in DCH and FACH modes as well as the bytes transmitted in each case.

The numbers obtained are consistent with measurements in the literature. DCH tail times hover around 20 . Backfilling opportunities are not limited to DCH tails any significant gap in network use during a DCH state can be used. For example one of the traces corresponds to roughly 75 minutes of watching a Hulu video. The UDP traffic from Hulu peers prevents the modem from ever leaving the DCH state. Yet packet inter arrival times of two seconds were not uncommon. Thus in some cases even streaming downloads can benefit by backfilling such as designated certain packets of the download as delay tolerant.

As noted illustration provides a plot of the traces sorted by the amount of time spent in DCH state against the global DCH bitrate in Kbps e.g. bits sent and received in DCH divided by DCH time . It is underscored that rarely does a trace exceed 150 Kbps of global DCH bitrate. Rather most traces accumulate longer than 10 minutes of DCH time with a trace showing as little as 25 Kbps over 11 minutes. Clearly the opportunity for backfilling while spending marginal additional energy is present even for nominal channel capacity as low as 384 Kbps which was already achievable a decade ago. At that capacity most of the traces could push over 20 MiBs of backfill traffic.

To complement the view from the device perspective various network traces can now be examined. Results from an example UMTS provider in a major urban area are examined. The data feed obtained is decomposed by RNC by Node B within each RNC and by mobile within each cell totaling 1 853 Node Bs and 130 653 mobile users. The data for the mobile devices consist of the number of kilobits sent and received for every second for which that device was DCH activity e.g. the data demand . For abstraction all numbers are expressed as ratios and or percentages.

In a plot of the demand per second over the full day is expressed as a ratio of the peak. In a particular cell that experienced a high degree of activity has been selected for closer examination. The peak can be seen to have occurred at about 7 42 pm. It is noted that high short term variance in demand can reveal a substantial opportunity for backfilling. plots the demand per second over a selected five minute interval. zooms into a five minute period starting at 10 thousand seconds of to reveal the abundance of short term valleys of low utilization.

Feeding the data harvested for individual mobile devices to a state machine emulator gives a finer grained picture. For each mobile and each DCH period spare capacity that can be reused for backfilling can be calculated. The individual peak bitrate actually achieved by each mobile device in each DCH period is used as a proxy for the maximum achievable bitrate. Such is a conservative estimate and therefore the estimates of the backfilling opportunities disclosed can be viewed as conservative.

Hence it is readily apparent that the disclosed traffic backfilling can be employed as a means of allowing applications to optimize their interactions with wireless cellular networks. With backfilling delay tolerant traffic can be transmitted leveraging the unused resources left over by bursts of interactive and urgent foreground application traffic. Through device traces and network data from a major US carrier it has been illustrated that there are ample opportunities for traffic backfilling today in existing frameworks which can be leveraged at a marginal cost both from a network signaling and device energy standpoint.

With reference now to various design and or implementation configurations are depicted. In particular relates to system that can be configured such that all or a portion of system can be included in network server such as a nodeB or other suitable network component. Likewise relates to system in which all or a portion of system can be included in user equipment such as a mobile phone or another suitable mobile device.

It is understood that components described herein associated with system can exist as combinations of both hardware or software. For example system can be embodied in whole or in part as hardware devices or as instructions executable by a processor and stored in a non transitory computer readable medium.

Turning now to exemplary method for opportunistically leveraging existing periods of inactivity for sending data at virtually no marginal cost in terms of resource utilization is depicted. Generally at reference numeral transmission data slated for transmission by way of a communications network can be received.

However rather than immediately conveying the transmission data to the communications network at reference numeral a determination can be made as to whether or not the transmission data is delay tolerant. If not then the transmission data can be processed as would normally occur.

On the other hand if the transmission data is determined to be delay tolerant then at reference numeral the transmission data can be saved to a queue. The transmission data can remain in the queue for a period of time that can be determined based upon a variety of factors.

At reference numeral the transmission data can be transmitted over the communications network during an inactive period associated with a different communication transaction. For example during periods of inactivity or activity in which throughput is not maximized which can be at the tail of the different communication transaction or during other periods of that transaction.

Turning now to exemplary method for providing additional features or aspects in connection with opportunistically leveraging existing periods of inactivity is illustrated. At reference numeral the determination of whether or not the transmission data is delay tolerant e.g. reference numeral of can be determined based upon a designation provided by an application associated with the transmission data. For example the application responsible for issuing the data or otherwise managing the transmission of that data can select whether or not any given data is designated as interactive or delay tolerant potentially to varying degrees of delay tolerance in some embodiments . Additionally or alternatively at reference numeral the determination of whether or not the transmission data is delay tolerant can be determined based upon a classification of the transmission data that can be performed on the fly and can be based upon an analysis of the degree of delay tolerance associated with particular transmission data.

It is understood that the situation might arise in which staging queues housing transmission data for eventual transmittal can accumulate over time based upon usage network conditions or the like. Thus at reference numeral a clearing communication transaction can be initiated. The clearing communication transaction can be employed for transmitting at least a portion of the transmission data store in the queue. The clearing transaction can be initiated based upon a variety of factors. For example based upon a size and or amount of data in the queue based upon an amount of time spent in the queue and or based upon a degree of delay tolerance associated with the transmission data in the queue.

Referring now to exemplary method for providing additional features or aspects in connection with existing periods of inactivity is illustrated. At reference numeral the inactive period discussed at reference numeral of can occur at specific times in particular when a dedicated transport channel DCH exists and an inactivity timer is running. Such can occur at the tail of the different transaction. Additionally or alternatively such can occur at any time in which the DCH exists for instance during periods of low or no activity.

At reference numeral a fast dormancy command can be issued in response to at least a portion of the transmission data being transmitted. In cases where an inactivity timer is running the delay tolerant data in the queue that is transmitted might operate to reset the inactivity timer. Thus the fast dormancy command can be issued to force a state transition at a determined time.

For example at reference numeral the fast dormancy command can be issued for simulating state transitions as expected if the transmission data stored in the queue were not transmitted at all. Hence transmission data included in the queue can be transmitted without increasing the resource utilization over what would exist if only interactive data were transmitted.

To provide further context for various aspects of the subject specification illustrates an example wireless communication environment with associated components that can enable operation of a femtocell enterprise network in accordance with aspects described herein. Wireless communication environment includes two wireless network platforms i A macro network platform that serves or facilitates communication with user equipment via a macro radio access network RAN . It should be appreciated that in cellular wireless technologies e.g. 4G 3GPP UMTS HSPA 3GPP LTE 3GPP UMB macro network platform is embodied in a Core Network. ii A femto network platform which can provide communication with UE through a femto RAN linked to the femto network platform through a routing platform via backhaul pipe s wherein backhaul pipe s are substantially the same a backhaul link below. It should be appreciated that femto network platform typically offloads UE from macro network once UE attaches e.g. through macro to femto handover or via a scan of channel resources in idle mode to femto RAN.

It is noted that RAN includes base station s or access point s and its associated electronic circuitry and deployment site s in addition to a wireless radio link operated in accordance with the base station s . Accordingly macro RAN can comprise various coverage cells like cell while femto RAN can comprise multiple femto access points. As mentioned above it is to be appreciated that deployment density in femto RAN is substantially higher than in macro RAN .

Generally both macro and femto network platforms and include components e.g. nodes gateways interfaces servers or platforms that facilitate both packet switched PS e.g. internet protocol IP frame relay asynchronous transfer mode ATM and circuit switched CS traffic e.g. voice and data and control generation for networked wireless communication. In an aspect of the subject innovation macro network platform includes CS gateway node s which can interface CS traffic received from legacy networks like telephony network s e.g. public switched telephone network PSTN or public land mobile network PLMN or a SS7 network . Circuit switched gateway can authorize and authenticate traffic e.g. voice arising from such networks. Additionally CS gateway can access mobility or roaming data generated through SS7 network for instance mobility data stored in a VLR which can reside in memory . Moreover CS gateway node s interfaces CS based traffic and signaling and gateway node s . As an example in a 3GPP UMTS network gateway node s can be embodied in gateway GPRS support node s GGSN .

In addition to receiving and processing CS switched traffic and signaling gateway node s can authorize and authenticate PS based data sessions with served e.g. through macro RAN wireless devices. Data sessions can include traffic exchange with networks external to the macro network platform like wide area network s WANs it should be appreciated that local area network s LANs can also be interfaced with macro network platform through gateway node s . Gateway node s generates packet data contexts when a data session is established. To that end in an aspect gateway node s can include a tunnel interface e.g. tunnel termination gateway TTG in 3GPP UMTS network s not shown which can facilitate packetized communication with disparate wireless network s such as Wi Fi networks. It should be further appreciated that the packetized communication can include multiple flows that can be generated through server s . It is to be noted that in 3GPP UMTS network s gateway node s e.g. GGSN and tunnel interface e.g. TTG comprise a packet data gateway PDG .

Macro network platform also includes serving node s that convey the various packetized flows of information or data streams received through gateway node s . As an example in a 3GPP UMTS network serving node s can be embodied in serving GPRS support node s SGSN .

As indicated above server s in macro network platform can execute numerous applications e.g. location services online gaming wireless banking wireless device management . . . that generate multiple disparate packetized data streams or flows and manage e.g. schedule queue format . . . such flows. Such application s for example can include add on features to standard services provided by macro network platform . Data streams can be conveyed to gateway node s for authorization authentication and initiation of a data session and to serving node s for communication thereafter. Server s can also effect security e.g. implement one or more firewalls of macro network platform to ensure network s operation and data integrity in addition to authorization and authentication procedures that CS gateway node s and gateway node s can enact. Moreover server s can provision services from external network s e.g. WAN or Global Positioning System GPS network s not shown . It is to be noted that server s can include one or more processor configured to confer at least in part the functionality of macro network platform . To that end the one or more processor can execute code instructions stored in memory for example.

In example wireless environment memory stores information related to operation of macro network platform . Information can include business data associated with subscribers market plans and strategies e.g. promotional campaigns business partnerships operational data for mobile devices served through macro network platform service and privacy policies end user service logs for law enforcement and so forth. Memory can also store information from at least one of telephony network s WAN s or SS7 network enterprise NW s or service NW s .

Femto gateway node s have substantially the same functionality as PS gateway node s . Additionally femto gateway node s can also include substantially all functionality of serving node s . In an aspect femto gateway node s facilitates handover resolution e.g. assessment and execution. Further control node s can receive handover requests and relay them to a handover component not shown via gateway node s . According to an aspect control node s can support RNC capabilities.

Server s have substantially the same functionality as described in connection with server s . In an aspect server s can execute multiple application s that provide service e.g. voice and data to wireless devices served through femto RAN . Server s can also provide security features to femto network platform. In addition server s can manage e.g. schedule queue format . . . substantially all packetized flows e.g. IP based frame relay based ATM based it generates in addition to data received from macro network platform . It is to be noted that server s can include one or more processor configured to confer at least in part the functionality of macro network platform . To that end the one or more processor can execute code instructions stored in memory for example.

Memory can include information relevant to operation of the various components of femto network platform . For example operational information that can be stored in memory can comprise but is not limited to subscriber information contracted services maintenance and service records femto cell configuration e.g. devices served through femto RAN access control lists or white lists service policies and specifications privacy policies add on features and so forth.

It is noted that femto network platform and macro network platform can be functionally connected through one or more reference link s or reference interface s . In addition femto network platform can be functionally coupled directly not illustrated to one or more of external network s or . Reference link s or interface s can functionally link at least one of gateway node s or server s to the one or more external networks or .

In an aspect macro network platform controls a set of base stations that serve either respective cells or a number of sectors within such cells. Base station comprises radio equipment for operation in one or more radio technologies and a set of antennas e.g. smart antennas microwave antennas satellite dish es . . . that can serve one or more sectors within a macro cell . It is noted that a set of radio network control node s which can be a part of macro network platform a set of base stations e.g. Node B that serve a set of macro cells electronics circuitry or components associated with the base stations in the set of base stations a set of respective OTA wireless links e.g. links or operated in accordance to a radio technology through the base stations and backhaul link s and form a macro radio access network RAN . Macro network platform also communicates with other base stations not shown that serve other cells not shown . Backhaul link s or can include a wired backbone link e.g. optical fiber backbone twisted pair line T1 E1 phone line a digital subscriber line DSL either synchronous or asynchronous an asymmetric ADSL or a coaxial cable . . . or a wireless e.g. line of sight LOS or non LOS backbone link. Backhaul pipe s link disparate base stations . According to an aspect backhaul link can connect multiple femto access points and or controller components CC to the femto network platform . In one example multiple femto APs can be connected to a routing platform RP which in turn can be connect to a controller component CC . Typically the information from UEs can be routed by the RP for example internally to another UE connected to a disparate femto AP connected to the RP or externally to the femto network platform via the CC as discussed in detail supra.

In wireless environment within one or more macro cell s a set of femtocells served by respective femto access points APs can be deployed. It can be appreciated that aspects of the subject innovation are geared to femtocell deployments with substantive femto AP density e.g. 14 10femto APs per base station . According to an aspect a set of femto access points with N a natural number can be functionally connected to a routing platform which can be functionally coupled to a controller component . The controller component can be operationally linked to the femto network platform by employing backhaul link s . Accordingly UE connected to femto APs can communicate internally within the femto enterprise via the routing platform RP and or can also communicate with the femto network platform via the RP controller component and the backhaul link s . It can be appreciated that although only one femto enterprise is depicted in multiple femto enterprise networks can be deployed within a macro cell .

It is noted that while various aspects features or advantages described herein have been illustrated through femto access point s and associated femto coverage such aspects and features also can be exploited for home access point s HAPs that provide wireless coverage through substantially any or any disparate telecommunication technologies such as for example Wi Fi wireless fidelity or picocell telecommunication. Additionally aspects features or advantages of the subject innovation can be exploited in substantially any wireless telecommunication or radio technology for example Wi Fi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX Enhanced General Packet Radio Service Enhanced GPRS 3GPP LTE 3GPP2 UMB 3GPP UMTS HSPA HSDPA HSUPA or LTE Advanced. Moreover substantially all aspects of the subject innovation can include legacy telecommunication technologies.

With respect to in example embodiment femtocell AP can receive and transmit signal s e.g. traffic and control signals from and to wireless devices access terminals wireless ports and routers etc. through a set of antennas . It should be appreciated that while antennas are a part of communication platform which comprises electronic components and associated circuitry that provides for processing and manipulating of received signal s e.g. a packet flow and signal s e.g. a broadcast control channel to be transmitted. In an aspect communication platform includes a transmitter receiver e.g. a transceiver that can convert signal s from analog format to digital format upon reception and from digital format to analog format upon transmission. In addition receiver transmitter can divide a single data stream into multiple parallel data streams or perform the reciprocal operation. Coupled to transceiver is a multiplexer demultiplexer that facilitates manipulation of signal in time and frequency space. Electronic component can multiplex information data traffic and control signaling according to various multiplexing schemes such as time division multiplexing TDM frequency division multiplexing FDM orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM code division multiplexing CDM space division multiplexing SDM . In addition mux demux component can scramble and spread information e.g. codes according to substantially any code known in the art e.g. Hadamard Walsh codes Baker codes Kasami codes polyphase codes and so on. A modulator demodulator is also a part of operational group and can modulate information according to multiple modulation techniques such as frequency modulation amplitude modulation e.g. M ary quadrature amplitude modulation QAM with M a positive integer phase shift keying PSK and the like.

FAP also includes a processor configured to confer functionality at least partially to substantially any electronic component in the femto access point in accordance with aspects of the subject innovation. In particular processor can facilitate FAP to implement configuration instructions received through communication platform which can include storing data in memory . In addition processor facilitates FAP to process data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing such as effecting direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times etc. Moreover processor can manipulate antennas to facilitate beamforming or selective radiation pattern formation which can benefit specific locations e.g. basement home office . . . covered by FAP and exploit substantially any other advantages associated with smart antenna technology. Memory can store data structures code instructions system or device information like device identification codes e.g. IMEI MSISDN serial number . . . and specification such as multimode capabilities code sequences for scrambling spreading and pilot transmission floor plan configuration access point deployment and frequency plans and so on. Moreover memory can store configuration information such as schedules and policies FAP address es or geographical indicator s access lists e.g. white lists license s for utilization of add features for FAP and so forth.

In embodiment processor is coupled to the memory in order to store and retrieve information necessary to operate and or confer functionality to communication platform broadband network interface e.g. a broadband modem and other operational components e.g. multimode chipset s power supply sources . . . not shown that support femto access point . In addition it is to be noted that the various aspects disclosed in the subject specification can also be implemented through i program modules stored in a computer readable storage medium or memory e.g. memory or memory and executed by a processor e.g. processor or ii other combination s of hardware and software or hardware and firmware.

Referring now to there is illustrated a block diagram of an exemplary computer system operable to execute the disclosed architecture. In order to provide additional context for various aspects of the disclosed subject matter and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented. Additionally while the disclosed subject matter described above may be suitable for application in the general context of computer executable instructions that may run on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosed subject matter also can be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.

The illustrated aspects of the disclosed subject matter may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

A computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media can comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media can include either volatile or nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer.

Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Still referring to the exemplary environment for implementing various aspects of the disclosed subject matter includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples to system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi processor architectures may also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that may further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS is stored in a non volatile memory such as ROM EPROM EEPROM which BIOS contains the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up. The RAM can also include a high speed RAM such as static RAM for caching data.

The computer further includes an internal hard disk drive HDD e.g. EIDE SATA which internal hard disk drive may also be configured for external use in a suitable chassis not shown a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD e.g. to read from or write to a removable diskette and an optical disk drive e.g. reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other high capacity optical media such as the DVD . The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The interface for external drive implementations includes at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE1394 interface technologies. Other external drive connection technologies are within contemplation of the subject matter disclosed herein.

The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For the computer the drives and media accommodate the storage of any data in a suitable digital format. Although the description of computer readable media above refers to a HDD a removable magnetic diskette and a removable optical media such as a CD or DVD it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of media which are readable by a computer such as zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards cartridges and the like may also be used in the exemplary operating environment and further that any such media may contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods of the disclosed subject matter.

A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . All or portions of the operating system applications modules and or data can also be cached in the RAM . It is appreciated that the disclosed subject matter can be implemented with various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wired wireless input devices e.g. a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone an IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen touch screen or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port an IEEE1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface etc.

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers printers etc.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wired and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer a mobile device portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wired wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks e.g. a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which may connect to a global communications network e.g. the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the local network through a wired and or wireless communication network interface or adapter . The adapter may facilitate wired or wireless communication to the LAN which may also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless adapter .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wired or wireless device is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. a printer scanner desktop and or portable computer portable data assistant communications satellite any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag e.g. a kiosk news stand restroom and telephone. This includes at least WI FI and Bluetooth wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

WI FI or Wireless Fidelity allows connection to the Internet from a couch at home a bed in a hotel room or a conference room at work without wires. WI FI is a wireless technology similar to that used in a cell phone that enables such devices e.g. computers to send and receive data indoors and out anywhere within the range of a base station. WI FI networks use radio technologies called IEEE802.11 a b g n etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wired networks which use IEEE802.3 or Ethernet . Wi Fi networks operate in the unlicensed 2.4 and 5 GHz radio bands at an 15 Mbps 802.11b or 54 Mbps 802.11a data rate for example or with products that contain both bands dual band so the networks can provide real world performance similar to the basic 10 BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.

What has been described above includes examples of the various embodiments. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the embodiments but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations are possible. Accordingly the detailed description is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

As used in this application the terms system component interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational machine with one or more specific functionalities. The entities disclosed herein can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. These components also can execute from various computer readable storage media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry that is operated by software or firmware application s executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that confers at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. An interface can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application and or API components.

Furthermore the disclosed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from by a computing device.

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor also can be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification terms such as store data store data storage database repository queue and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. It will be appreciated that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. In addition memory components or memory elements can be removable or stationary. Moreover memory can be internal or external to a device or component or removable or stationary. Memory can include various types of media that are readable by a computer such as hard disc drives zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards or other types of memory cards cartridges or the like.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

In particular and in regard to the various functions performed by the above described components devices circuits systems and the like the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. a functional equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspects of the embodiments. In this regard it will also be recognized that the embodiments includes a system as well as a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for performing the acts and or events of the various methods.

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media and or communications media which two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows. Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

On the other hand communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communications media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media

Further terms like user equipment user device mobile device mobile station access terminal terminal handset and similar terminology generally refer to a wireless device utilized by a subscriber or user of a wireless communication network or service to receive or convey data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream. The foregoing terms are utilized interchangeably in the subject specification and related drawings. Likewise the terms access point node B base station evolved Node B cell cell site and the like can be utilized interchangeably in the subject application and refer to a wireless network component or appliance that serves and receives data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream from a set of subscriber stations. Data and signaling streams can be packetized or frame based flows. It is noted that in the subject specification and drawings context or explicit distinction provides differentiation with respect to access points or base stations that serve and receive data from a mobile device in an outdoor environment and access points or base stations that operate in a confined primarily indoor environment overlaid in an outdoor coverage area. Data and signaling streams can be packetized or frame based flows.

Furthermore the terms user subscriber customer consumer and the like are employed interchangeably throughout the subject specification unless context warrants particular distinction s among the terms. It should be appreciated that such terms can refer to human entities associated devices or automated components supported through artificial intelligence e.g. a capacity to make inference based on complex mathematical formalisms which can provide simulated vision sound recognition and so forth. In addition the terms wireless network and network are used interchangeable in the subject application when context wherein the term is utilized warrants distinction for clarity purposes such distinction is made explicit.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

In addition while a particular feature may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes and including and variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

