---

title: Network apparatus based on content name and method for protecting content
abstract: A content protection method includes generating content protection information regarding a content to be protected by a content producer, and generating a content name indicating a location of the content in content name based networks based on the content protection information. The content protection information may include at least one of marking information indicating whether the content is protected and policy information indicating a disclosure range of the content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09344429&OS=09344429&RS=09344429
owner: Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
number: 09344429
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20120611
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 a of Korean Patent Application No. 10 2011 0055544 filed on Jun. 9 2011 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office the entire disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The following description relates to a technology for protecting content and content related information a contents centric network CCN or an information centric network ICN .

In content centric networking CCN data communication such as content transmission is performed based on a content name. Whereas a communication host is traced using an Internet protocol IP address in an IP based network a content is traced using the content name in the CCN. Hereinafter the terms content may be understood as data or information transmitted in the network.

The CCN is performed as follows. First a certain network device may transmit a request message that includes a desired content name to neighboring network devices. Out of the neighboring network devices receiving the request message a network device which stores a content designated in the request message may transmit a response message that includes the corresponding content to the network device that transmitted the request message.

Thus the CCN operates in a request response type as aforementioned. That is the CCN is structured for receiver based communication performed in such a manner that a receiver initiates communication rather than that a transmitter initiates and controls communication. Under the receiver based communication structure a content may be transmitted by the request of another network device irrespective of an intention of a content source or publisher. For example a content to be shared only within a particular network domain may be transmitted to the outside by the request of an external network device out of the domain. Using a content encoding scheme a receiver not allowed for access to a particular content may be prevented from recognizing a content object. However content transmission may still not be prevented.

In addition a content name information on a network domain that generates a content information on a content owner and the like may be recognized by transmitting a content request message using the content name and receiving a response message corresponding to the content request message. However the foregoing method may cause leakage of the content and content related information and privacy violation with respect to a content producer.

As a result there is a need for a new technology for protecting content by preventing leakage of not only the content object but also the content related information such as the content name and a domain name of the network to the network or user blocked from accessing the content of the CNN.

In one general aspect a content protection method includes generating content protection information containing at least one of marking information indicating whether content is protected and policy information indicating a disclosure range of the content and generating a content name indicating a location of the content in content name based networks based on the content protection information.

The content protection method may further include receiving a content request message requesting transmission of the content and determining whether to transmit a content response message responding to the content request message based on the content protection information.

The determining of whether to transmit the content response message may include confirming whether content designated by the content request message is stored and determining whether to transmit the content response message that contains the content based on the content protection information when the content is confirmed to be stored.

The determining of whether to transmit the content response message may include confirming whether the content is set for access protection based on the marking information and confirming whether a next hop network device to which the content response message is to be forwarded is within the disclosure range based on the policy information when the content is confirmed to be set for the access protection.

In another general aspect a network device includes a content protection information generation unit to generate content protection information containing at least one of marking information indicating whether content is protected and policy information indicating a disclosure range of the content and a content name generation unit to generate content name indicating a location of the content in content name based networks based on the content protection information.

The network device may further include a message receiving unit to receive a content request message requesting transmission of the content and a determination unit to determine whether to transmit a content response message responding to the content request message based on the content protection information.

The determination unit may include a confirmation unit to confirm whether content contained in the content request message is stored and a transmission determination unit to determine whether to transmit the content response message that contains the content based on the content protection information when the content is confirmed to be stored.

In still another generally aspect a content protection method includes receiving a content request message requesting transmission of content and determining whether to transmit the content request message using tag information set based on content protection information wherein the content protection information includes at least one of marking information indicating whether content is protected and policy information indicating a disclosure range of the content.

The determining of whether to transmit the content request message may include confirming whether content designated by the content request message is stored and determining whether to transmit the content request message based on the content protection information when the content is confirmed to be absent.

In a further general aspect a network device includes a message receiving unit to receive a content request message requesting transmission of content and a determination unit to determine whether to transmit the content request message using tag information set based on content protection information wherein the content protection information includes at least one of marking information indicating whether the content is protected and policy information indicating a disclosure range of the content.

The determination unit may include a confirmation unit to confirm whether content designated by the content request message is stored and a transmission determination unit to determine whether to transmit the content response message to a network device corresponding to a next hop network device based on the content protection information and the policy information recorded in a forwarding information base FIB when the content is confirmed to be absent.

In a further general aspect a content protection method includes generating content protection information containing at least one of marking information indicating whether content is protected and policy information indicating a disclosure range of the content and determining whether to transmit a content response message corresponding to the content request message based on the content protection information.

Throughout the drawings and the detailed description unless otherwise described the same drawing reference numerals will be understood to refer to the same elements features and structures. The relative size and depiction of these elements may be exaggerated for clarity illustration and convenience.

The following detailed description is provided to assist the reader in gaining a comprehensive understanding of the methods apparatuses and or systems described herein. Accordingly various changes modifications and equivalents of the systems apparatuses and or methods described herein will be suggested to those of ordinary skill in the art. The progression of processing steps and or operations described is an example however the sequence of steps and or operations is not limited to that set forth herein and may be changed as is known in the art with the exception of steps and or operations necessarily occurring in a certain order. Also description of well known functions and constructions may be omitted for increased clarity and conciseness.

According to in the network device generates content protection information simultaneously concurrently or while generating the content. The content protection information includes marking information indicating that a content name includes a policy regarding whether to allow access of other network devices with respect to the content and policy information indicating a disclosure range allowing permitting or enabling transmission of the content. The other network devices may include a network device associated with the same network domain an external network device not belonging to the same network domain a network device operatively connected through the Internet and the like.

The network device may generate the marking information as a character code or a number code and so on. The marking information may indicate whether to protect the content by a tag. Also the network device may generate the policy information as a character code a number code an offset and a list. Also the network device may generate the policy information in the form of a combination of at least one of a character code a number code an offset and a list and so on.

The content name may be a unique identifier ID for identifying a corresponding content in a contents centric network CCN . The content name may include a plurality of components and may have a hierarchical structure. For example assuming that an organization BBB of an AAA company generates a content called news.jpg a content name such as AAA.com BBB newsjpg may be generated. In this case the content name includes three components.

In addition the content name may indicate a name of content related information for example a network domain in which a content is generated or stored or include at least one selected from a unique content name content version information a content segment number and the content protection information. Each component may include a name of the content related information the unique content name the content version information the content segment number and the content protection information. For example the content name may indicate a hierarchical network domain structure or a content belonging to the hierarchical network domain.

The network device may generate the content name such that the content protection information is included in any one of the plurality of components.

In the network device the content protection information may be located in a random location in the content name according to the content protection policy. For example the network device may generate the content name such that the content protection information is located between a network domain component and a network domain component. Alternatively the network device may generate the content name such that the content protection information is located between a network domain component and a unique content name component. Also the network device may generate the content name such that the content protection information is located between a unique content name component and a content version information component.

The content protection information may be located within a range applying a digital signature generated from the content response message.

In addition the network device may generate the content name such that the content protection information is included in a random location in the content name. In this case the content protection information may be located within a content name range applying the digital signature generated from the content response message. Also an object of protection may be varied according to the location of the content protection information. For example when access of other network devices is not allowed with respect to a particular network domain and a content name belonging to the network domain the network device may generate the content name such that the content protection information is located sequentially after the name component of the network domain to be protected as shown in Table 1 below.

According to Table 1 when a request message related to the domain name to be protected or a content name including the domain name is received the network device may block transmitting of the domain name to another network device based on the content protection information. For example in the CCN a request message may be expressed as INTEREST.

When receiving the INTEREST requesting a network domain named AAA.xxx BBB CCC DDD or a content named AAA.xxx BBB CCC DDD EEE zzz according to the case of Table 1 the network device may recognize that the content protection information is located after the domain name AAA.xxx BBB CCC DDD. Accordingly the network device may block transmitting of the domain name or the content to another content device based on the content protection information. The network device may generate the content protection information per domain name. For example the network device may generate content protection information related to a domain BBB content protection information related to a domain CCC and content protection information related to a domain DDD respectively.

According to Table 1 the plurality of components constituting the content name and the network domain name may be classified into single components by each slash . For example when the content name or the network domain name is AAA.xxx BBB CCC DDD Security info AAA.xxx may refer to a first component BBB a second component CCC a third component DDD a fourth component and Security info a fifth component. Thus the domain name in Table 1 may include five components.

As another example when not allowing access of another network device with respect to a content having a particular content name the network device may generate the content name such that the content protection information is located after a content file name component to be protected as shown in Table 2.

According to Table 2 the domain name may be information hierarchically indicating a network domain in which a content is stored or generated. Here the content file name may be information indicating a name of a content generated by a content producer. The version information may be information indicating a version of the generated content. The segment number may be information indicating numbers allocated to a plurality of segments of the generated content.

In addition according to Table 2 the network device may generate the content name such that the content protection information is located in a component among the plurality of components corresponding to the range applying the digital signature with respect to the content. For example the network device may generate the content name such that the content protection information is located between the version information and the segment information that is where the digital signature is applied.

The content protection information may be located in any one of the plurality of components which corresponds to the range applying the digital signature. The component refers to a unit dividing respective information included in the content name. The content protection information may include a single component. When the domain name includes four hierarchical network domain names as shown in Table 2 the domain AAA.xxx the domain BBB the domain CCC and the domain DDD may each include a single component. In other words the domain name information may include four components. Additionally the content file name the version information and the segment number may each include a single component. The network device may generate the content name in such a manner that the content protection information is located after the content file name.

In the network device may receive the content request message. For example the network device may receive the content request message from a next hop network device to which the content response message is to be forwarded. The next hop network device to which the content response message is to be forwarded may be included in a higher level network domain.

The content request message may contain at least one of the content object the network domain name corresponding to the content a content list and information including contents belonging to a particular network domain and domain hierarchy information. The content object may refer to a file generated by the content producer. The domain hierarchy information may refer to information indicating a hierarchical relationship with at least one network domain.

For example the network device may receive the content request message requesting information related to the domain DDD as shown in Table 3.

According to Table 3 the content request message may use two protocol indicators to inform whether a content protection protocol is used in the network. For example the protocol indicator may be expressed as ccns Interest to inform that the network device that requests transmission of information related to the domain DDD such as sub domain lists or content lists is using the content protection protocol. Also the content request message may be expressed as ccn Interest to inform that the network device is not using the content protection protocol. In other words the network device may compatibly use ccn and ccns protocols as http and https protocols are used compatibly. The content protection protocol may define that the content is shared or not shared with other network devices based on the content protection information.

Next in the network device may determine whether to transmit a content response message responding to the content request message based on the content protection information.

Hereinafter a structure for determining whether to transmit the content response message will be described with reference to .

According to in operation the network device may confirm whether the content is stored by receiving a content request message.

For example the network device may confirm whether content corresponding to the content request message is stored in a content store CS . In one example the CS may be a cache that stores content. The network device may be provided with a separate data storage not shown storing at least one content.

Next when it is confirmed that the content is stored in the CS the network device may determine whether to transmit the content response message based on the content protection information corresponding to the stored content.

For this purpose first the network device may confirm marking information contained in the content protection information in . The network device may confirm whether the content is set for access protection. In this instance the marking information may be expressed by a tag in the form of a character code or a number code.

As an example when the marking information includes a character code S which means secure the network device may confirm that the content corresponding to the content request message is set for the access protection.

As another example when the marking information includes a character code NS which means non secure the network device may confirm that the content corresponding to the content request message is set for the access protection. That is the network device may confirm that access of other network devices to the content is permitted.

As still another example when the marking information includes a number 1 the network device may confirm that the content corresponding to the content request message is set for the access protection.

As yet another example when the marking information includes a number 0 the network device may confirm that the content corresponding to the content request message is allowed for access.

Next in when the marking information is confirmed the network device may confirm the policy information contained in the content protection information. That is the network device may confirm whether a next hop network device to which the response message is to be forwarded is included in a disclosure range based on the policy information. In one example the policy information may include an offset a character code a number code a pseudo code or a domain list showing a number or range of domains to disclose the content. The number of domains may refer to a number of highest level network domains to which the content belongs which is expressed by a root or a number of network domains hierarchically connected with reference to the content itself.

For example when a root domain that is the highest level network domain is the reference and the policy information includes an offset the network device may confirm that the content may be shared with or disclosed up to a second sub domain with reference to the root domain. That is when the content request message ccn Interest AAA.xxx BBB CCC DDD is received to the network device of the domain DDD and when the domain DDD is the network domain actually having the content protection policy the network device of the domain DDD may transmit the content response message in accordance with the content protection policy. Here a name of the domain DDD may be content protection information policy information of AAA.xxx BBB CCC DDD DDD. When the policy information of DDD includes the offset the network device may confirm that a hierarchy of the domain DDD cannot be shared with or disclosed to a network device and a root corresponding to the domain BBB which corresponds to the offset with reference to a root AAA.xxx but can be shared with or disclosed to a network device corresponding to the domain CCC.

In the network device may forward a content response message depending on whether the policy information is confirmed.

For example when it is confirmed that the next hop network device to which the content response message is to be forwarded is excluded from the disclosure range based on the policy information the network device may block transmitting of the content response message to the next hop network device. That is the network device may ignore and not respond to the content request message. Accordingly the content to be protected may be prevented from being transmitted to a network device undesired for sharing or disclosure of the content.

As another example when the next hop network device is included in the disclosure range based on the policy information the network device may transmit the content response message responding to the content request message to the network device corresponding to the higher level domain. In one example the content response message may include at least one of a domain name a content file name version information a segment number the content protection information and content data in the form of a file.

When the content protection information is set to be different according to network domains the network device may determine whether to share or disclose the content with respect to other networks based on a priority.

For example content protection information may be generated so that a sub domain name and contents are not shared with or disclosed to an external domain in a higher level domain. In addition content protection information may be generated so that contents belonging to a sub domain are shared with or disclosed to an external domain in the sub domain. In this case the content protection information related to the higher level domain may have a higher priority than the content protection information related to the sub domain. That is the network device may prevent sharing or disclosing of the content belonging to the sub domain with or to another network device belonging to the external domain.

With reference to it has been described that the network device determines whether to transmit the content response message by confirming the marking information. However since this is only an example embodiment the network device may determine whether to transmit the content response message based on presence of the marking information.

For example in the network device may confirm whether there is a component where the marking information is located among the plurality of components constituting the content name. In one configuration when the marking information is determined to be absent the network device may not need to execute a security policy and therefore directly determine to transmit the content response message. When the marking information is determined to be present the network device may confirm that data subsequent to the marking information is the policy information. Therefore the network device may have to execute the security policy according to the policy information. Accordingly the network device may confirm the disclosure range of the content based on the policy information and determine whether to transmit the content response message as described in and .

According to based on content protection information the network device may control whether to transmit content corresponding to a content request message to a network device corresponding to a higher level domain. In one configuration when a content request message related to content to be protected is generated the content request message may be transmitted to the network device storing the content. In addition the network device storing the content and all network devices corresponding to a root domain may control whether to transmit the content to the network device corresponding to a higher level domain or an external network device through the Internet based on the content protection information tag information in a forwarding information base FIB or tag information included in a CS. As aforementioned transmission of the content response message including the content may be determined per hierarchy from the network device storing the content to the network device corresponding to the root domain in a similar manner to Egress filtering performed by a firewall in an IP based network. Therefore when the Egress filtering is applied a network device storing a content and higher level domains of a network device storing a content may both receive the content request message. However the content request message is prevented from being shared with or disclosed to a network device not included in a disclosure range.

In a first network device corresponding to the root may receive a content request message requesting transmission of EEE.zzz in a file form through an Internet from an external network device. For example the first network device may receive a content request message in the form of ccns Interest AAA.xxx BBB CCC DDD EEE.zzz.

Next the first network device may confirm whether content corresponding to the content request message is stored in a first CS. When it is confirmed that the content is absent in the first CS the first network device may record a content request message in a pending interest table PIT in the first network device .

In addition the first network device may determine an interface corresponding to a second network device to which the content request message is to be transmitted by referring to a first FIB. In the CCN the interface may be referred to as a face and may include a port number. For example the first network device may determine the interface using longest matching between the content request message and messages recorded in the first FIB. Additionally the first network device may transmit the content request message to the second network device through the interface . Here the content response message in the CCN may be expressed as data.

In the same manner the second network device may transmit the content request message to a third network device which is a next hop network device. The third network device may transmit the content request message to a fourth network device and the fourth network device may transmit the content request message to a fifth network device . Accordingly the fourth network device may confirm whether the content corresponding to the content request message is stored in a fourth CS.

Here when it is confirmed that the content is stored in the fourth CS the fourth network device may confirm the disclosure range of the content based on tag information of the fourth CS.

For example when tag information corresponding to the content is set to 1 denoted by a reference numeral the fourth network device may confirm that the content corresponding to the content request message is set to be protected. Therefore the fourth network device may determine whether to transmit the content to the third network device based on content protection information related to the content.

For example when policy information corresponding to the content request message includes 3 the fourth network device may confirm that the content may be shared with or disclosed to the third network device corresponding to a third domain from the root.

Accordingly the fourth network device may transmit the content response message responding to the content request message to the third network device in .

Here the content response message may contain domain name content file name content protection information and content data. When the content data has various versions and is classified into a plurality of segments the content response message may further contain version information and segment information.

In the same manner the third network device may set tag information corresponding to the received content based on the content protection information designated by the content response message. When the received content is confirmed as the protected content the third network device may confirm that a disclosure range of the content extends up to the third network device corresponding to the third domain from the root. That is the third network device may confirm that the second network device is not included in the disclosure range of the content based on the policy information.

In this case the third network device may not transmit the content response message responding to the content request message to the second network device in operation . Thus since the content response message is not transmitted to the network device beyond the disclosure range of the content corresponding to the content request message the content that a content producer wants to protect may be protected.

According to the network device may control whether to transmit a content request message to a next hop network device based on an FIB or tag information included in the FIB. The next hop network device may refer to a network device included in a sub network domain.

When the content request message with respect to content to be protected is generated the next hop network device to which the content response message is to be forwarded may prevent transmission of the content request message to a next hop network device in a similar manner to Ingress filtering performed by a firewall in an IP based network. The next hop network device may refer to a network device included in a higher level network domain.

When the Ingress filtering is applied the network device storing the content corresponding to the content request message may be unaware of generation of the content request message.

In a first network device corresponding to a root may receive a content request message requesting transmission of EEE.zzz in a file form through an Internet from an external network device. For example the first network device may receive a content request message in the form of ccns Interest AAA.xxx BBB CCC DDD EEE.zzz.

Next the first network device may confirm whether content corresponding to the content request message is stored in a first CS.

When it is confirmed that the content is absent in the first CS the first network device may record the content request message in its first PIT.

In addition the first network device may determine an interface corresponding to a second network device to which the content request message is to be transmitted by referring to a first FIB. In the CCN the interface may be referred to as a face and may include a port number. For example the first network device may determine the interface using longest matching between the content request message and messages recorded in the first FIB.

In addition the first network device may determine whether to transmit the content request message to a second network device which is a next hop network device through the determined interface based on tag information corresponding to the determined interface . The next hop network device may refer to a network device included in a sub network domain. For example when the tag information corresponding to the interface is 0 the first network device may confirm that a domain name AAA.xxx BBB CCC is not set as protected content. Therefore the first network device may transmit the content request message through the interface to the second network device .

In the same manner when receiving the content request message the second network device may confirm whether the content corresponding to the content request message is stored in a second CS. When it is confirmed that the content is absent in the second CS the second network device may record the content request message in its second PIT. Next the second network device may determine an interface corresponding to a third network device to which the content request message is to be transmitted by referring to a second FIB. Also the second network device may transmit the content request message to the third network device through the determined interface .

In addition the second network device may determine whether to transmit the content request message to the third network device corresponding to a sub domain through the determined interface based on tag information corresponding to the determined interface . Here when the content request message is determined to be transmittable to the third network device the second network device may transmit the content request message to the third network device through the interface .

In the same manner the third network device may determine an interface corresponding to a fourth network device to which the content request message is to be transmitted using longest matching in a third FIB. In addition the third network device may determine whether to transmit the content request message to the fourth network device corresponding to a sub domain based on tag information corresponding to the determined interface .

For example in the third FIB when the tag information corresponding to the interface is set to 1 the third network device may confirm that AAA.xxx CCC DDD is content set to be protected. Therefore the third network device may not transmit the content request message to the fourth network device corresponding to the sub domain in operation . Thus since the third network device ignores the content request message based on the tag information in the fourth FIB and prevents transmitting of the content request message to the fourth network device the fourth network device may not receive the content request message or not transmit a content stored in the fourth network device . Accordingly the content corresponding to the content request message may be shared with or disclosed to only the fourth network device and the third network device that are included in a disclosure range of the content. That is a content may be prevented from being shared with or disclosed to other network devices beyond the disclosure range.

According to the network device includes a content protection information generation unit a content name generation unit a message receiving unit a determination unit and a CS .

The content protection information generation unit may generate content while also generating content protection information which includes marking information indicating whether the generated content is protected and policy information indicating a disclosure range of the content. The marking information may indicate that a content name contains a policy regarding whether to allow or prevent access of at least one of another network device and an external network device with respect to the content. The policy information may indicate the disclosure range allowing sharing and disclosure of the generated content among network devices corresponding to respective domains having a hierarchical structure. For example the content protection information generation unit may generate the policy information as an offset a number or character code a pseudo code or a domain list.

Based on the content protection information the content name generation unit may generate content name indicating a location that is a path of the content in the name based network. The content name may include at least one of domain name information content name information version information the content protection information and segment information.

In one configuration the content name may include a plurality of components. The content protection information may include one of the components. That is the content name generation unit may generate the content name such that the content protection information is included in one of the components. Specifically the content name generation unit may generate the content name such that the content protection information is located in a range applying a digital signature with respect to the content among the components.

For example to protect a domain name and a content name belonging to the domain the content name generation unit may generate the content name such that content protection information is located continuously after a component where the domain name information is located.

As another example to protect the content name the content name generation unit may generate the content name such that the content protection information is located after a component where content name information is located among the plurality of components. For example when the version information and the segment information with respect to the generated content are included the content name generation unit may generate the content name such that the content protection information is located between the version information and the segment information.

The message receiving unit may receive a content request message requesting transmission of content from another network device. For example the message receiving unit may receive the content request message from a next hop network device. For example the content request message may contain at least one of content data content name information domain name information domain hierarchy information and content list information.

Therefore the determination unit may determine whether to transmit a content response message responding to the content request message to another network device based on the content protection information. Here the determination unit may include a confirmation unit to confirm whether the content designated by the content request message is stored in the CS and a transmission determination unit to determine whether to transmit the content response message containing the content base on the content protection information.

For example when it is confirmed that the content is stored in the CS the confirmation unit may confirm whether the content is protected from access based on the marking information. When the content is confirmed to be protected information the confirmation unit may confirm the disclosure range of the content corresponding to the content request message. That is the confirmation unit confirms whether the network device is included in the disclosure range. When the network device is confirmed to be included in the disclosure range the transmission determination unit may transmit the content response message responding to the content request message to the network device corresponding to the higher level domain.

Conversely when it is confirmed that the network device corresponding to the higher level domain is not included in the disclosure range the transmission determination unit may determine to prevent transmitting of the content response message to the network device. The content response message may contain at least one of the domain name content name the content protection information the version information the segment information and the content data. Accordingly when the content response message is not transmitted to the network device based on the content protection information the content may be prevented from being shared with or disclosed to network devices not included in the disclosure range.

According to in the network device may receive a content request message requesting transmission of content. Here the content request message may include at least one of content data a content file name a domain name content list information including contents belonging to the domain and domain hierarchy information.

In the network device may determine whether to transmit the content request message using tag information set based on content protection information. The content protection information may include marking information indicating whether the content is protected and policy information indicating a disclosure range of the content. The network device may set tag information of a CS or tag information of an FIB. The tag information may set whether the content corresponding to the content request message is protected content according to the marking information.

For example the network device may confirm whether the content content request message the content request message is stored in the CS. When the content is confirmed to be absent the network device may record the content request message in its PIT. Next the network device may determine whether to transmit the content request message to a next hop network device based on the tag information of the FIB. The next hop network device may refer to a network device included in a sub network domain.

When the content is determined to be the protected content based on the tag information the network device may determine to prevent transmitting of the content request message to the network device corresponding to the sub domain. When the content is determined to be not the protected content based on the tag information the network device may determine to transmit the content request message to the next hop network device. Since ingress filtering performed in this manner is already described with reference to a detailed description thereof will be omitted for conciseness.

First the message receiving unit may receive the content request message requesting transmission of content. For example the message receiving unit may receive the content request message from a network device corresponding to a higher level domain.

The determination unit may determine whether to transmit the content request message to a next hop network device using tag information set based on content protection information. Here the content protection information may include marking information indicating whether the content is protected and policy information indicating a disclosure range of the content. The determination unit may include a confirmation unit and a transmission determination unit .

The transmission determination unit may determine whether to transmit the content request message based on the content protection information. As access protection with respect to the content is confirmed the transmission determination unit may determine whether the content request message needs to be transmitted to a next hop network device based on content protection information and policy information recorded in an FIB. The next hop network device may refer to a network device included in a sub network domain. As it is confirmed that a content designated by the content request message is absent the transmission determination unit may determine whether to transmit the content request message based on the content protection information.

When it is confirmed that the content request message does not need to be transmitted to the next hop network device the transmission determination unit may determine not to transmit the content request message to the next hop network device.

In addition when the content request message needs to be transmitted to the next hop network device or when it is not confirmed that transmission of the content request message is unnecessary the transmission determination unit may determine to transmit the content request message to the next hop device.

When receiving the content request message the confirmation unit may confirm whether the content corresponding to the content request message is stored in the CS . When the content is confirmed to be absent the network device may record the content request message in a PIT. In addition the confirmation unit may confirm whether the content is set for access protection based on the marking information.

Additionally when the content is confirmed to be absent the network device may determine whether to transmit the content request message to the next hop network device. Conversely when the content is confirmed to be stored the network device may determine whether to transmit the content request message to the next hop network device based on the tag information of the CS. Here the tag information may set whether the content corresponding to the content request message is protected content according to the marking information.

When the content corresponding to the content request message is the protected content the network device may determine to prevent transmitting of the content request message to the next hop network device. When the content is not the protected content the network device may determine to transmit the content request message to the network device corresponding to the sub domain. Since Ingress filtering performed in this manner is already described with reference to a detailed description thereof will be omitted for conciseness.

A structure where a network device that generated content controls sharing or disclosure of the content with at least one of another network device and an external network device using content protection information containing marking information and policy information has been described. Here the marking information may indicate that a content name contains a policy regarding whether to allow or prevent access of at least one of another network device or an external network device to the content.

That is the marking information may indicate not only whether the content is set as protected content or non protected content but also that a character string data and the like located after the marking information is the policy information.

For example when the content name is AAA.xxx BBB CCC SS policy 1  Version 2.0 the network device may parse the content name in units of slash . Here the content name may indicate an entire content name.

Therefore the network device may understand through parsing that AAA.xxx BBB and CCC are information indicating content name information and domain name information and that a content version is 2.0 since a number subsequent to  Version  is 2.0. In addition the network device may confirm through parsing that a policy 1 subsequent to  SS  is to be executed. Thus the marking information may inform the network device that the character string and data located subsequent to the marking information are to be used as the policy information.

In other words the network device may determine whether to execute or not a security policy based on presence of the marking information in the content name. Accordingly when a component containing the marking information is absent in the content name the network device may not execute the security policy for protection of the content. When a component containing the marking information is present the network device may confirm that the data located subsequent to the marking information is the policy information and execute the security policy for protection of the content.

As aforementioned according to the example embodiments by controlling access to content based on content protection information a content producer may protect the content from sharing or disclosure with respect to an undesired user or network device.

The methods according to the above described example embodiments may be recorded in non transitory computer readable media including program instructions to implement various operations embodied by a computer. The media may also include alone or in combination with the program instructions data files data structures and the like. The program instructions recorded on the media may be those specially designed and constructed for the purposes of the example embodiments or they may be of the kind well known and available to those having skill in the computer software arts.

A number of examples have been described above. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made. For example suitable results may be achieved if the described techniques are performed in a different order and or if components in a described system architecture device or circuit are combined in a different manner and or replaced or supplemented by other components or their equivalents. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

