---

title: Central information management system
abstract: A network device is configured to send information identifying a frequency at which an application, downloaded on a user device, is to send geographic location information to the network device. The network device is configured further to receive personal information associated with a plurality of social networking applications from the application on the user device. The network device is configured further to receive the geographic location information from the application; and send the personal information and the geographic location information to a plurality of social networking servers associated with a plurality of social networking applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09609495&OS=09609495&RS=09609495
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09609495
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121116
---
A user may use multiple social networking applications on a user device. Each social networking application may receive at different times location information of the user device from the user device. Each social networking application may send the location information at different times to a server associated with the social networking application.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

Systems and or methods described herein may permit an application downloaded on a user device to control when location information of the user device can be sent from the user device through a network to a network device. The application may also receive personal information e.g. update messages photos etc. from one or more social networking applications on user device and may send the personal information to the network device. The network device may receive the location information and the personal information associated with one or more social networking applications. The network device may send the location information to one or more servers associated with the social networking applications and the network device may send the personal information from a social networking application to the respective server of the social networking application. Further the network device may provide the user with recommendations e.g. concerning a restaurant a movie theater an event etc. based on the location information and the personal information.

Additionally social networking application may send personal information to social networking server and social networking application may send personal information to social networking server . The personal information may be any information associated with the user s account with a particular social networking application. This may include wall postings photos status updates user likes dislikes demographic information birthplace of user current employer male female etc. and or any other type of information that may be sent from the social networking application to its respective server.

Each time the location information is sent from the user device this results in the reduction of user device resources such as draining the battery life of the user device which may lead to an undesirable user experience.

Any information that social networking application and social networking application sends from the user device is sent from each social networking application through the proxy application. Assume that the user logs into the proxy application. Upon logging into the proxy application the proxy application may communicate based on stored instructions with social networking server and . Social networking server may receive a message that the user is logged into social networking application and social networking server may receive a message that the user is logged into social networking application .

With the user logged into the proxy application the location information and the personal information received by the proxy application is sent via the network to the proxy gateway. The proxy gateway is a network device that receives the location information and the personal information from social networking application and social networking application via the proxy application. The proxy gateway may send the location information to social networking application server and social networking application server . Further the proxy gateway send the personal information received from the proxy application associated with social networking application to social networking server and the personal information associated with social networking application to social networking server .

Assume that the proxy application has stored instructions to send the location information of the user device to the proxy gateway every minute instead of multiple social networking applications sending the location information every three or five seconds as described with regard to . Because user device resources such as the user device battery are used by the user device to send information through the network sending the location information every minute instead of every three and five seconds the amount of user device resources dedicated to sending location information is reduced. Further since the location information is sent every minute instead every three and five seconds the amount of network resources associated with the network used to forward the location information is also reduced.

The proxy gateway may also store the location information and the personal information associated with social networking application and social networking application to determine a recommendation e.g. a service such as yoga a business such as a restaurant an event such as a concert and or other types of information which the proxy gateway sends to the proxy application. The proxy application may receive the recommendation and display the recommendation on the user device to the user.

As a result controlling the frequency of time during which the location information of the user device is sent from the user device may reduce the amount of user device resources and or reduce the amount of network resources being used to send the location information since less location information is being sent from the user device. Further using a network device e.g. such as the proxy gateway to receive information from multiple social networking applications may permit the network to provide recommendations that may be of interest to the user of the user device.

Environment may include an evolved packet system EPS that includes an LTE network and or an evolved packet core EPC that operate based on a third generation partnership project 3GPP wireless communication standard. The LTE network may be a radio access network RAN that includes one or more base stations such as eNodeBs eNBs via which user device communicates with the EPC. The EPC may include SGW MME PGW and proxy gateway that enables device to communicate with network and or an Internet protocol IP multimedia subsystem IMS core. The IMS core may include HSS AAA server and or CSCF server and may manage authentication session initiation account information a user profile etc. associated with user device . The combination of the access network the EPC and the IMS core may be defined as a long term evolution LTE network. The access network may include multiple base stations and the EPC may include multiple SGWs MMEs PGWs proxy gateways . The IMS core may include multiple HSS AAA servers and or CSCF servers .

In some implementations the LTE network described above may be replaced with another type of network such as a network similar to network .

Proxy application may include an application that is capable of receiving information from one or more social networking applications downloaded and executing on user device . Proxy application may send the information associated with the one or more social networking applications to proxy gateway . Proxy application may receive information from one or more social networking applications associated with one or more social networking servers and may send the information to proxy gateway . Proxy application may receive location information of the user device from user device and may control when the location information may be sent from proxy application to proxy gateway .

User device may include any mobile user device that is capable of communicating with a network e.g. network . For example user device may include a radiotelephone a personal communications system PCS terminal e.g. that may combine a cellular radiotelephone with data processing and data communications capabilities a personal digital assistant PDA e.g. that can include a radiotelephone a pager Internet intranet access etc. a smart phone a laptop a tablet computer or any other type of mobile user device.

User device may include a variety of applications such as for example a social networking application a photo sharing application an e mail application a telephone application a camera application a video application a multi media application a music player application a visual voicemail application a contacts application a data organizer application a calendar application an instant messaging application a texting application a web browsing application a location based application e.g. a global positioning system GPS based application a blogging application and or other types of applications e.g. a word processing application a spreadsheet application etc. .

Base station may include one or more network devices that receive process and or transmit traffic such as audio video text and or other data destined for and or received from user device . In an example implementation base station may be an eNB device and may be part of the LTE network. Base station may receive traffic from and or send traffic to network via SGW and PGW . Base station may send traffic to and or receive traffic from user device via an air interface. One or more of base stations may be associated with a RAN such as the LTE network.

SGW may include one or more data processing and or traffic transfer devices such as a gateway a router a modem a switch a firewall a network interface card NIC a hub a bridge a proxy server an optical add drop multiplexer OADM or some other type of device that processes and or transfers traffic. SGW may for example aggregate traffic received from one or more base stations and may send the aggregated traffic to network via PGW . In one example implementation SGW may route and forward user data packets may act as a mobility anchor for a user plane during inter base station handovers and may act as an anchor for mobility between LTE and other 3GPP technologies.

MME may include one or more network devices that gather process search store and or provide information in a manner described herein. For example MME may perform operations associated with a handoff to and or from the EPS. MME may perform operations to register user device with the EPS to hand off user device from the EPS to another network to hand off user device from the other network to the EPS and or to perform other operations. MME may perform policing operations for traffic destined for and or received from user device .

PGW may include one or more data processing and or traffic transfer devices such as a gateway a router a modem a switch a firewall a NIC a hub a bridge a proxy server an OADM or some other type of device that processes and or transfers traffic. PGW may for example provide connectivity of user device to external packet data networks by being a traffic exit entry point for user device . PGW may perform policy enforcement packet filtering charging support lawful intercept and packet screening. PGW may also act as an anchor for mobility between 3GPP and non 3GPP technologies.

HSS AAA server may include one or more network devices or other types of computation or communication devices that gather process search store and or provide information in a manner described herein. For example HSS AAA server may manage authenticate update and or store in a memory associated with HSS AAA server profile information associated with user device that identifies applications and or services that are permitted for and or accessible by device bandwidth or data rate thresholds associated with the applications or services information associated with a user of user device e.g. a username a password a personal identification number PIN etc. rate information minutes allowed and or other information. Additionally or alternatively HSS AAA server may include a device that performs authentication authorization and or accounting AAA operations associated with a communication session with user device .

CSCF server may include one or more network devices or other types of computation or communication devices that gather process search store and or provide information in a manner described herein. CSCF server may process and or route calls to and from user device via the EPC. For example CSCF server may process and manage sessions that are associated with audio communications multimedia calls video streaming communications and or other types of communications that are received from network and that are destined for user device . In another example CSCF server may process and manage sessions as described above received from user device that are destined for network .

Proxy gateway may include one or more network devices that may receive information from proxy application associated with one or more social networking applications downloaded on user device . Proxy gateway may receive location information of user device from proxy application . Proxy gateway may send the location information to one or more social networking servers associated with the one or more social networking applications. Proxy gateway may send information associated a particular social networking application on user device to a particular social networking server that is associated with the particular social networking application. Proxy gateway may use the location information and the information associated with the one or more social networking applications to determine recommendations for the user of user device .

Network may include one or more wired and or wireless networks. For example network may include a cellular network a public land mobile network PLMN a second generation 2G network a third generation 3G network a fourth generation 4G network a fifth generation 5G network and or another network. Additionally or alternatively network may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan network MAN a telephone network e.g. the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN an ad hoc network a managed IP network a virtual private network VPN an intranet the Internet a fiber optic based network and or combination of these or other types of networks.

Social networking server may include one or more network devices that provide a social networking application that may be used on user device . Social networking server may provide and or interface with a social networking application such as Facebook Foursquare Loopt and or a service related to the social networking application. Social networking server may provide a social networking application that can be used on user device to communicate any media stream such as a video stream an audio stream a textual stream and or any other type or form of content. Social networking server may provide a social networking application that includes services such as games scripts and or messaging services that may be used on device .

The quantity of devices and or networks illustrated in is provided for explanatory purposes only. In practice there may be additional devices and or networks fewer devices and or networks different devices and or networks and differently arranged devices and or networks than illustrated in . Also in some implementations one or more of the devices of environment may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another one or more of the devices of environment . Devices of environment may interconnect via wired connections wireless connections or a combination of wired and wireless connections.

As shown in device may include a bus a processor a memory an input component an output component and a communication interface . In other implementations device may contain fewer components additional components different components or differently arranged components than depicted in . Additionally or alternatively one or more components of device may perform one or more tasks described as being performed by one or more other components of device .

Bus may include a path that permits communication among the components of device . Processor may include one or more processors microprocessors or processing logic e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC that interprets and executes instructions. Memory may include any type of dynamic storage device that stores information and instructions for execution by processor and or any type of non volatile storage device that stores information for use by processor .

Input component may include a component that permits a user to input information to device such as a keyboard a keypad a button a microphone a switch etc. Output component may include a component that outputs information to the user such as a display a speaker one or more light emitting diodes LEDs etc.

Communication interface may include any transceiver like mechanism that enables device to communicate with other devices and or systems. For example communication interface may include an Ethernet interface an optical interface a coaxial interface a wireless interface or the like.

In another implementation communication interface may include for example a transmitter that may convert baseband signals from processor to radio frequency RF signals and or a receiver that may convert RF signals to baseband signals. Alternatively communication interface may include a transceiver to perform functions of both a transmitter and a receiver of wireless communications e.g. radio frequency infrared visual optics etc. wired communications e.g. conductive wire twisted pair cable coaxial cable transmission line fiber optic cable waveguide etc. or a combination of wireless and wired communications.

Communication interface may connect to an antenna assembly not shown in for transmission and or reception of the RF signals. The antenna assembly may include one or more antennas to transmit and or receive RF signals over the air. The antenna assembly may for example receive RF signals from communication interface and transmit the RF signals over the air and receive RF signals over the air and provide the RF signals to communication interface . In one implementation for example communication interface may communicate with network and or devices connected to network .

As will be described in detail below device may perform certain operations. Device may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions e.g. computer program s contained in a computer readable medium such as memory a secondary storage device e.g. hard disk CD ROM etc. or other forms of RAM or ROM. A computer readable medium may be defined as a non transitory memory device. A memory device may include memory space within a single physical storage device or memory space spread across multiple physical storage devices. The software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device. The software instructions contained in memory may cause processor to perform processes described herein. Alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

Process may include receiving configuration information block . For example proxy application may receive instructions on what information proxy application is permitted to access. Proxy application may be downloaded on user device prior to the activation of user device and may be implemented in the memory of user device . Alternatively the user may download and install proxy application on user device .

Proxy application may display a message to the user of user device requesting permission from the user for access of location information of user device and or personal information from social networking applications associated with different social networking servers downloaded on user device . The location information may be received from user device via a GPS receiver a radio device and or any other device within user device that can provide the location information e.g. the geographic location of user device .

The message may include information about how proxy application may provide the user with the capability to use login information to obtain admission to multiple social networking applications downloaded on user device . The login information may be a user name and password biometric information fingerprint information a unique code and or any other type of login information. The login information may be associated with an identifier associated with user device such as the international mobile subscriber identifier hereinafter referred to as IMSI the mobile subscriber integrated services digital network MSISDN the mobile device number hereinafter referred to as MDN or any other device identifier associated with user device . The login information may be stored by proxy application for future validations or proxy application may send the login information to a network device e.g. proxy gateway HSS AAA server etc. so that the network device may store and use the login information for future validations.

The message may include information regarding how the user may use proxy application for social networking applications downloaded on user device . The message may include a list of applications that the user may use in conjunction with proxy application . The user may select one or more social networking applications from the list of social networking applications. For each selected social networking application the user may provide proxy application particular login information for each selected social networking application. Upon the user entering in the login information for proxy application proxy application may use the particular login information to log into a social networking server associated with a social networking application. Alternatively upon the user entering in the login information for proxy application proxy application may send the login information to proxy gateway and proxy gateway may store the particular login information associated with a social networking application. Proxy gateway may use that login information to log into a social networking server associated with a social networking application. Social networking server may validate the particular login information associated with a social networking application as if social networking server received particular login information from the user logging into the social networking application.

At a later time the user may decide to no longer use proxy application and the user may deselect social networking applications being used in conjunction with user device . For example the user may use proxy application to act as a proxy application to log into a first social networking application and a second social networking application. At a later time the user may decide to stop sending information from the first social networking application via proxy application . The user may opt out of using proxy application to receive information from the first social networking application.

The message may include providing the user with the option to configure when the location information may be sent from proxy application . For example the user may be given the option to select the frequency of time e.g. every 10 seconds 5 seconds 2 minutes etc. when the location information may be sent from proxy application . Alternatively proxy application may have stored pre configuration information that instructs proxy application to send information during a particular frequency of time.

Alternatively proxy application may receive instructions from proxy gateway regarding when proxy application is to receive location information from user device and send the location information to proxy gateway . Proxy application may receive additional instructions to change the frequency of time e.g. change from every 10 seconds to every 5 seconds at which the location information may be sent from user device . Proxy gateway may send the additional instructions based on changes to the amount of network traffic at a particular time e.g. proxy gateway sends instructions at the busy hour on particular day to send location information every 20 seconds during the busy hour on the particular day .

Alternatively proxy application may store instructions that when the battery power of user device reaches a certain level e.g. the battery power is at 50 then proxy application may automatically change the frequency of time at which the location information may be sent from user device .

Alternatively proxy application may store instructions that when user device is being used at a particular time of the day e.g. 10 00 a.m. 1 00 p.m. 5 00 a.m. etc. proxy application may automatically change the frequency of time at which the location information may be sent from user device .

The message may include providing the user with options for configuring when recommendation information may be provided to user device . The user may be provided with the option to determine when recommendations may be sent to user device . The user may have the option to receive recommendations only when the user is using a particular social networking application. The user may have the option to receive recommendations only during a specified time such as recommendations may only be sent to user device on a particular day e.g. only on Saturday and or at a particular time e.g. from 9 00 a.m. to 1 00 p.m. . The user may have the option to disable receiving recommendations during a period of time e.g. the user is going on vacation for two weeks and does not want any recommendations sent during the two week period .

The message may include providing the user with an option regarding how long information associated with the location and or personal information may be stored by proxy gateway . The message may include providing the user with the option regarding which information e.g. photos status updates etc. may be stored by proxy gateway . For example the user may have the option to only permit personal information associated with a particular social networking application selected by the user to be stored. Additionally the user may have the option to permit location information to be stored for a particular period of time e.g. 1 day 30 days 1 hour etc. .

Process may include receiving location and personal information block . The user may log into proxy application by using valid login information. In one example implementation proxy application may validate the login information. Proxy application may use particular stored login information described with regard to block associated with the particular social networking application and send the particular login information to social networking server . Since social networking server has information stored regarding validating the particular login information associated with a particular social networking application social networking server validates the particular login information as if social networking server is receiving the particular login information directly from the social networking application.

In another example implementation proxy application may send the login information to a network device e.g. proxy gateway . The network device may receive the login information from user device via proxy application validate the login information and send a message to proxy application that the user is permitted to use proxy application . Proxy gateway may use particular stored login information described with regard to block associated with the particular social networking application and send the particular login information to social networking server . Since social networking server has information stored regarding validating the particular login information associated with a particular social networking application social networking server validates the particular login information as if social networking server is receiving the particular login information directly from the social networking application.

In either of the above example implementations the social networking application may store information received from social networking server that the social networking application is to send personal information to proxy application . Further in either of the above example implementations if the login information is not valid then the user may still be able to log into one or more social networking applications associated with one or more social networking servers downloaded on user device . The social networking application may communicate with social networking server without using proxy application and or proxy gateway .

With the user logged into proxy application social networking applications downloaded on user device may send personal information to proxy application . The information being sent is based upon the configuration information described with regard to block . Additionally proxy application may request and receive location information from user device based on the configuration information described in block . The location information may be received based upon a radio device a GPS receiver and or any other device within user device that can communicate with another device e.g. a base station a satellite system etc. to receive location information for user device .

Process may include determining when to send the location and personal information block . For example upon receiving the personal information from one or more social networking applications proxy application may send the personal information to proxy gateway .

Proxy application may have instructions that determine when to send location information from user device to proxy gateway . The instructions may be received from the user of user device proxy gateway or the instructions may be pre configured within proxy application as described with regard to block . The instructions may for example determine that location information is to be sent after a period of time e.g. send location information every 5 minutes 10 seconds 1 minute etc. to prevent a large amount of location data from being continuously sent through the network.

Additionally or alternatively the instructions may determine that location information is to be sent when one or more of the social networking applications downloaded on user device are being used. For example proxy application may send location information only when a first social networking application is being used for an interval of time greater than a threshold level of usage e.g. the user is using the social networking application for more than 10 minutes 1 minute 5 minutes etc. .

Proxy gateway may receive the location information and the personal information from user device via proxy application . Proxy application may communicate with proxy gateway by using an application programming interface hereinafter referred to as API . Proxy gateway may send the location information and the personal information to a particular social networking servers associated with a social networking application downloaded on user device associated with the particular social networking server .

Process may include receiving recommendation information block . For example proxy application may receive recommendation information from proxy gateway . The recommendation information may include recommendations to the user based on the location information and the personal information sent from user device to proxy gateway as described above.

The recommendation information may include information recommending businesses near the user s location assuming that the user is using user device based on personal information. For example assume that the personal information relates to books. In this case the recommendation information may recommend a bookstore within a particular geographic distance e.g. 2 miles 1 mile 3 miles etc. of the user s location.

Proxy application may display a message on user device . The message may include the recommendation information received from proxy gateway . The message may include an option for the user to receive additional information regarding the recommendation and an additional option to ignore any further notifications regarding the recommendation.

While a series of blocks has been described with regard to the blocks and or the order of the blocks may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel.

Process may include receiving configuration information block . For example proxy gateway may receive configuration information from proxy application described with regard to block in . Proxy gateway may use the configuration information for one or more different purposes. In some implementations proxy gateway may use the configuration information to determine what information may be stored by proxy gateway and for how long the information may be stored by proxy gateway . For example the configuration information may indicate a preference by the user of user device to permit location information and personal information to be stored for no more than a specified time e.g. personal information cannot be stored for more than 14 days 19 days 7 days etc. . Further the proxy gateway may based on the configuration information store information based on the user s interests friends contacts photos videos and or other types of personal information.

Process may include receiving login information block . For example proxy gateway may receive the login information associated with proxy application . Proxy gateway may validate the login information based upon matching the received login information with valid login information stored by proxy gateway . Alternatively proxy gateway may send the login information to another network device e.g. HSS AAA server and request the other network device to validate the login information. Once the other network device validates the login information the other network device may send a message to proxy gateway that the login information is valid.

Process may include receiving location and personal information block . For example proxy gateway may receive from user device the location information of user device and the personal information associated with social networking applications downloaded on user device as described with regard to . Proxy gateway may send the location information and the personal information to social networking servers associated with one or more social networking applications downloaded on user device . Additionally proxy gateway may receive information associated with a request from the user of user device requesting a recommendation and or other types of information.

Process may include determining recommendation information block . Proxy gateway may determine a recommendation based on a request by the user or by information stored by proxy gateway to send recommendations based on the configuration information described with regard to .

Proxy gateway may use different types of information stored by proxy gateway to make one or more recommendations based on the user s levels of permission and preferences within the configuration information described with regard to . For example proxy gateway may use information received from proxy application and stored by proxy gateway associated with locations that the user has recently visited within a period of time e.g. in the last week the previous month the last 2 days etc. .

Additionally or alternatively proxy gateway may use information associated with communications between the user and the user s friends e.g. communication information received from one or more social networking applications via proxy application which may include information about a friend s location shared interests shared experiences such as music concert etc. . Additionally or alternatively proxy gateway may use information received from one or more social networking applications via proxy application and stored by proxy gateway associated with the user s interests such as the user s interest in different types of music television programs concerts movies politics sports and or other types of interests. Additionally or alternatively proxy gateway may use information received from one or more social networking applications via proxy application and stored by proxy gateway associated with the user s status such as whether the user is married single dating and or any other type of status.

Proxy gateway may receive and use location information to determine the recommendation. For example assume that proxy gateway determines based upon the above information that the user may be interested in an ice cream store. In one example implementation proxy gateway may have access to a library and or database of information regarding businesses and other types of organizations e.g. schools government facilities etc. and the location of the businesses that proxy gateway may use to find an ice cream store near the location of user device . In another example implementation proxy gateway may communicate with another network device to request and receive the information.

In either of the above example implementations proxy gateway and or another network device may store a hierarchical list of businesses and or other organizations. Businesses and or other organizations may pay a fee to the network service provider associated with proxy gateway to be selected by proxy gateway and or another network device by being listed at a higher level in the hierarchical list than the other similar businesses and or organizations. For example a bookstore located in Miami may pay a fee to the network service provider to be selected instead of other bookstores in Miami if proxy gateway is making a recommendation based on the user s personal information and the location of user device for bookstores in Miami.

Process may include sending the recommendation information block . For example proxy gateway may send the recommendation information to proxy application .

While a series of blocks has been described with regard to the blocks and or the order of the blocks may be modified in other implementations. Further non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel.

An example of LTE network may correspond to one or more devices e.g. base station SGW MME PGW and CSCF server that make up the access EPS and IMS core segments described with regard to . An example of College Buddies server and an example of Career Buddies server may each correspond to social networking server described with regard to .

As shown in Ben is using College Buddies and Career Buddies. Ben is using College Buddies to communicate with his fellow alumni at Top College. Ben is using Career Buddies to communicate with former co workers about the best pubs in Houston. As Ben is using College Buddies and Career Buddies Ben is visiting Houston. Proxy application not shown in may receive information from College Buddies and Career Buddies and send the information via LTE network to proxy gateway . Additionally proxy application may receive the location information via a GPS receiver within user device . Assume that proxy application has instructions to send location information every 5 minutes while Ben is using the College Buddies application or the Career Buddies application. Proxy application may send the location information via LTE network to proxy gateway . By sending the location information every 5 minutes instead of each social networking application sending its own location information from user device the amount of resources of user device dedicated to sending location information is reduced since location information is being sent less frequently than would occur if each social networking application sent its own location information.

Proxy gateway may receive the personal information associated with the College Buddies application and the Career Buddies application and the location information. Proxy gateway may send information associated with College Buddies to College Buddies server and send information associated with Career Buddies to Career Buddies server . Additionally proxy gateway may store the personal and location information and determine based on the personal and location information to send a recommendation to user device that may be relevant to Ben.

As shown in proxy gateway may send the recommendation to proxy application . Proxy application may receive the message and display the message on user device to Ben. The message may include information about a football match between Top College and their rival Second College that is being televised at an event at Mark s Tavern. Mark s Tavern is a pub located 3 miles from Ben s current location. The message may provide Ben the option to either obtain the location and other information about the event or the option to ignore the information if Ben is not interested in going to Mark s Tavern.

Systems and or methods described herein may permit an application downloaded on a user device to control when location information of the user device can be sent from the user device through a network to a network device. As a result controlling the frequency of time during which the location information of the user device is sent from the user device may reduce the amount of user device resources and or reduce the amount of network resources being used to send the location information since less location information is being sent from the user device.

The foregoing description of implementations provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice of the implementations.

It will be apparent that example aspects as described above may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these aspects should not be construed as limiting. Thus the operation and behavior of the aspects were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware could be designed to implement the aspects based on the description herein.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of the possible implementations. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one other claim the disclosure of the possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

No element act or instruction used in the present application should be construed as critical or essential unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the article a is intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with one or more. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with reference to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of the invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

