---

title: Managing, directing, and queuing communication events using near-field communications
abstract: Embodiments of a system and method are disclosed for initiating a call-back sequence using NFC technology. Embodiments include capturing an image using an NFC reader determining an identification of active queues, displaying an indication of the active queues on a display screen using a session queuing component, obtaining a user selection of a queue as a selected queue using the session queuing component, sending a request to a communication system in a data format for an expected wait time associated with the selected queue, receiving the expected wait time from the communication system, and sending a confirmation to the communication system in a data format for a call-back.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09516168&OS=09516168&RS=09516168
owner: Virtual Hold Technology, LLC
number: 09516168
owner_city: Akron
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121019
---
The systems and methods relate to managing the queuing of clients waiting to be connected by telephone to a service agent of a business communication center. More particularly the systems and methods relate to enabling clients to be added to a queue utilizing web service messaging and relate to establishing a telephony connection between clients and service agents on an automated basis and in an order maintained by a queue.

Many businesses use groups of service representatives for communicating with clients who initiate communications with the business such as by telephone calls. To most efficiently use the time and skills of each service representative the service representatives may be organized into groups based on a skill set. For example the groupings may be based on the representative s ability to handle client issues such as the opening of new accounts billing issues and customer service issues on existing accounts.

Typically if a client calls such a business voice prompt menu choices enable the calling client to identify the issue for which the client requires service and the client is then queued for a service agent capable of handling the identified issue. As such it is expected that clients who identify the purpose of their call as a billing issue will be queued for and connected to a service representative with the ability to handle billing issues. Similarly it is expected that clients who identify the purpose of their call as a customer service issue will be queued for and connected to a service representative with the ability to handle customer service issues.

There are problems with existing communications systems such as contact centers including the following two problems. First the voice prompt menus that are used to channel callers to the queue for the appropriate group of service agents are exasperating to a client at best. It takes significant time to navigate the layered menus of voice prompts.

Second waiting on hold while the telephone connection is maintained in queue for connection to a service agent is also exacerbating to a client at best.

In an effort to reduce customer exacerbation caused by having to maintain a connection while on hold in queue secondary queue systems have been developed. A typical secondary queue system obtains a telephone number at which the calling client can be reached when a service representative is available i.e. a call back number . The client disconnects and then at the proper time a call back system establishes a connection to the client utilizing the call back number and couples the client to an available representative without waiting on hold in queue. One exemplary system is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 563 921 to Williams et al. which is commonly assigned with the present application.

While such a system may make the experience of waiting for a connection to a service representative slightly less frustrating it does not address the inconvenience of having to navigate an irritatingly slow and usually complicated voice prompt menu to enter the queue.

Embodiments of the present disclosure include an apparatus for initiating a voice call back sequence using near field communication NFC technology. The apparatus includes an NFC reader that captures information from an NFC tag and a processor configured to execute a device application. The device application includes a routine that captures information from the NFC tag. The device application further includes a routine such as a session queuing component that causes an indication of the one or more active queues to be displayed on a display screen of the apparatus and obtains a selection of a queue as a selected queue. The session queuing component resides within the apparatus. In some embodiments the device application determines an identification of the one or more active queues to be displayed based at least in part on the information captured from the NFC tag. The device application further includes a routine that sends a message in a data format to a communication system the message being related to a voice connection. In some embodiments the message comprises one of a call back confirmation a direct connection request a scheduled call back request and a cancellation.

Embodiments of the present disclosure also include a method for initiating a call back sequence using NFC technology. The method includes capturing information from an NFC tag displaying an indication of the one or more active queues on a display screen of a communication device using a session queuing component that resides within the device. In some embodiments the method includes determining an identification of one or more active queues based at least in part on the information captured from the NFC tag. The method further includes obtaining a selection of a queue as a selected queue using the session queuing component and sending a message in a data format to a communication system the message being related to a voice connection. In some embodiments the message comprises one of a call back confirmation a direct connection request a scheduled call back request and a cancellation.

Embodiments also include a non transitory computer readable medium comprising computer executable instructions for initiating a call back sequence using NFC technology. The computer executable instructions include instructions for capturing information using an NFC reader displaying an indication of one or more active queues on a display screen of a communication device using a session queuing component that resides within the device obtaining a selection of a queue as a selected queue using the session queuing component and sending a message to a communication system in a data format the message being related to a voice connection. In some embodiments the message comprises one of a call back confirmation a direct connection request a scheduled call back request and a cancellation. In some embodiments the computer executable instructions further comprise instructions for determining identification of the one or more active queues based at least in part on the information captured from the NFC tag.

One of the embodiments of the present disclosure is a communication device comprising an NFC reader. The device may be a cell phone a smartphone a tablet or laptop computer or the like. The device also includes a processor and a memory comprising application software executable by the processor including an application for reading information from an NFC tag and initiating various types of voice communication. When executed the application retrieves information from the NFC tag uses the retrieved information to display a plurality of voice communication options including a voice call back. In some embodiments the application may also request receive and display wait information for the voice call back along with one or more additional options such as confirm the voice call back cancel the voice call back schedule a voice call back or establish an immediate connection. In some embodiments the wait information may comprise the expected wait time. In some embodiments the wait information may comprise the number of callers currently waiting. In some embodiments the additional options displayed depend on the expected wait time or the number of callers waiting. The application sends a message based on a received selection from among the displayed options.

Embodiments of the present disclosure will now be described in detail with reference to the drawings. In the drawings each element with a reference number is similar to other elements with the same reference number independent of any letter designation following the reference number. In the text a reference number with a specific letter designation following the reference number refers to the specific element with the number and letter designation and a reference number without a specific letter designation refers to all elements with the same reference number independent of any letter designation following the reference number in the drawings.

It should also be appreciated that many of the elements discussed in this specification may be implemented in a hardware circuit s a processor executing software code which is encoded within computer readable media accessible to the processor or a combination of a hardware circuit s and a processor or control block of an integrated circuit executing machine readable code encoded within a computer readable media. As such the term circuit module server or other equivalent description of an element as used throughout this specification is intended to encompass a hardware circuit whether discrete elements or an integrated circuit block a processor or control block executing code encoded in a computer readable media or a combination of a hardware circuit s and a processor and or control block executing such code.

It should also be appreciated that the table structures represented in this application are exemplary only and intended to show the mapping of relationships between various data elements. Other table structures may store similar data elements in various manners. Further the applicant s use of the term plurality is intended to indicate not just at least one but one two three or any other quantity. The applicant s use of the term group is intended to indicate not just at least one but two three or more of the items within the group.

The system assigns a placeholder for a communication device or an identifier for a communication device such as its telephone number or other unique network identifier in a selected queue not shown in of the queue component . The system uses a sequence component to execute a call back sequence to a communication receiving device . When prompted the call back component places an outgoing call to a communication receiving device . The outgoing call attempts to establish a voice connection with the communication receiving device .

The communication receiving device may be any device that can receive a telephone call. In some embodiments the communication receiving device may be the communication device that sent the initial data requesting a telephone connection. When used herein to describe the target device for receiving a call back communication the term communication device or communication device shall include either the device used for making the initial request or another device that is capable of receiving the call back communication such as a telephone call.

In some embodiments prior to allowing communication between a communication device and the system the system performs one or more security checks. These security checks can be performed for a variety of purposes including ensuring that the software on the communication device is authentic and valid for use on the device and that the device is authorized. Various software routines may be used by the system and the communication device to perform security checks. Encryption keys may be assigned to the communication devices and used for the security check.

In an embodiment the identifier for a communication device is an encryption key. Each software application for communicating with the system on a communication device may have one or more unique encryption keys that are recognized by the system .

The network depicted by a cloud can be any one or more of a variety of networks. The system shown can support many communication devices of various types and many queues not shown in . The communication device may communicate with the other components through the network using available techniques.

The communication device may be a mobile communication device such as a cellular telephone. The communication device may also be a non mobile device such as a home entertainment device a kiosk or a point of purchase device.

Referring now to shown is a flow chart of an exemplary embodiment of a method for initiating a call back sequence in a communication system such as a call center or contact center for example. The method includes receiving data from a communication device determining a queue for the data determining the expected wait time in the queue for the data and sending the expected wait time in the queue to a communication device . The method further includes assigning a placeholder for the data in the queue . If a call back request is received from the communication device the method includes initiating a call back to a communication receiving device . The method further includes placing an outgoing call to a communication receiving device . The steps of the method may be performed in various different orders or chronology. In some embodiments blocks and may comprise determining the number of clients currently waiting in the queue and sending the number of waiting clients respectively instead of or in addition to the expected wait time in the queue.

As noted above the communication receiving device may be any device that can receive a telephone call. The communication receiving device may be the communication device that sent the initial data requesting a telephone connection or a different communication device.

The method further includes active provider routine sending a list of active providers to the communication device via an active providers message . More particularly the provider client routine in the session queuing component receives active providers message .

The method further includes receiving a request for active queues in the queue component via an active queue remote processing call from the communication device . The active queue remote processing call serves as a request for a listing of active queues associated with the selected provider to an active queue routine or process of the sequence component . The listing is populated into the service control of the session queuing component .

The exemplary method of further includes sending active queues via an active queues message from active queue routine to service client routine . The service client routine in this example is resident on the communication device . The active queues message includes active queues wherein an identifier of a communication device or other communication receiving device may be placed.

The method further includes receiving a request for the expected wait time for receiving a call back from a provider. The expected wait time may be received via an expected wait time call from the communication device . Upon the user selecting a queue using the service control the expected wait time client generates an expected wait time call to the sequence component . The method includes the expected wait time routine sending a request for the expected wait time to the expected wait time component within the queue component and receiving the expected wait time from the expected wait time component . In some embodiments request may comprise a request for the number of clients currently waiting in the queue. In some embodiments expected wait time may comprise the number of clients waiting in the queue.

With continuing reference to the method further includes sending an expected wait time message to the communication device . More particularly the expected wait time message is sent from the expected wait time routine of the sequence component to an expected wait time client of the session queuing component . In some embodiments expected wait time message may comprise the number of clients currently waiting in the queue. The method further includes receiving a confirmation call from the communication device . More particularly the confirmation call originates from confirmation client part of the session queuing component and is sent to the confirmation routine of the sequence component . The method further includes sending a request via a message to the queue component to add user s identifier to the selected queue .

With continuing reference to each business communication center using business communication center for reference may be associated with a company and comprise a group of service agents . Each of the service agents may be a service representative system for enabling a service representative to service a client. More specifically the service representative may participate in an audio or audio video session with a communication device and service the requests of each client or routine of the session queuing component . The service agents may be organized in a single service agent set grouped into multiple service agent sets based on the skill set of service agent operators e.g. the operators of the service agents at a communication system .

In an embodiment the business communication center has at least one computer system including a processor operating the queue component and memory. In general the queue component is adapted to maintain a group of queues with each queue being associated with one of sets of the group of service agents . For example the set of service agents may be associated with queue while the second set of service agents may be associated with queue

In an embodiment the queue component identifies a sequential order of the devices and which are queued for connection to one of the service agents .

In some embodiments expected wait time component is adapted to determine an expected wait time value representing the time at which service agents within the particular service agent group are expected to be available to service a client. The expected wait time can be calculated or determined in a number of different ways. In some embodiments expected wait time component may be adapted to determine other information associated with a particular queue such as the number of clients currently waiting.

The expected wait time value may represent an estimated wait time calculated using primary estimated wait time techniques such as projecting a wait time based on the quantity of clients in the queue and any of a historical present or projected time allotment for handling each such queued client. Alternatively the expected wait time value may be a function of both a primary estimated wait time calculation and a wait time augmentation calculation made based on service agent availability and or scheduled change in service agent availability as disclosed in co pending patent application Ser. No. 11 143 857 filed on Jun. 2 2005 and assigned to the same assignee as the present application. Such patent application is incorporated herein by reference.

The sequence component may be embodied as a web services server. In one embodiment the sequence component is connected to the internet and includes appropriate web services messaging systems i.e. Simple Object Access Protocol or SOAP for communicating with the session queuing component on the devices . In an embodiment the sequence component communicates with queue component .

The sequence component may include a processor not shown for executing the web services messaging systems as well as other applications stored on a memory not shown . Such other applications may comprise an active provider routine an active queue routine an expected wait time routine and a confirmation routine .

The session queuing component may include a number of routines including for example a provider client a company or provider control a queue or service client a queue or service control an expected wait time client a confirmation control and a confirmation client .

It should be appreciated that each of the routines of the session queuing component are exemplary and for illustrative purposes. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the systems and functions of each routine described herein may be implemented by way of other permutations of components and sub systems.

In an embodiment the session queuing component may be an embedded application of a communication device . In another embodiment the session queuing component may be a java script ActiveX or other similar structure downloaded and executed by a browser and an applicable browser plug in executing on the communication device . In this embodiment the session queuing component may include a combination of the java script or ActiveX control and components of the browser and or the plug in which in combination drive operation of the session queuing component .

In an embodiment the session queuing component communicates with the sequence component using web service messages and well known Internet protocols for example IP TCP UDP HTTP etc. In an embodiment the session queuing component obtains user selection of a provider from a group of providers with which the user desires to communicate via a telephone communication session. The session queuing component may also obtain user selection of a service of the selected provider from a group of services and may present an estimated wait time representing a duration of time the user can be expected to wait until connecting to the selected services. In some embodiments the session queuing component may present the number of clients currently waiting in a queue. After presenting the expected wait time and or the number of waiting clients to the user session queuing component confirms that the user desires to connect to a service agent . More specifically it confirms that the user wishes to speak with a particular type of service agent . The session queuing component assists in placing the user in a queue for the user to receive a call back from the service agent at a connection time.

The connection time may be when the user reaches the first position in the queue i.e. after other clients in the selected queue prior to the client have all been connected to available service agents or abandoned their position in the queue selected and a service agent becomes available or at a specific scheduled time. The specific scheduled time may be a time calculated by adding the expected wait time to the time at which the expected wait time was presented to the user. The specific scheduled time may also be a time selected by the user. The expected wait time may be rounded for example rounded to the nearest one two or five minute interval.

The term provider is used interchangeably with the term business communication center or the provider s business communication center within this application and the term queue is used interchangeably with the term service or the queue for connection to a service agent providing the selected service. 

In some embodiments the session queuing component may perform additional functions. For example session queuing component may obtain user selection of one of several different connection options including but not limited to being placed in a queue to receive a voice call back. For example session queuing component may obtain user selection from among additional options including establishing an immediate connection to a service agent of the selected provider cancelling the user s request for a voice call back from the selected provider and requesting a scheduled call back from the selected provider at a user selected date and or time. Moreover session queuing component may assist the user with the selected option by for example initiating the sending of message s to the appropriate entity associated with the selected provider.

The primary queue may be embodied in a primary automated call director ACD . In an embodiment the ACD places in a queue client telephone connections which are on hold waiting for a service agent . Such an ACD may use known technology adapted to 1 receive incoming calls from the communication device e.g. establishing a client connection with each 2 identify which group of service agents the caller desires to connect including using primary voice prompts and 3 place the call in a queue for connection to the identified service agent group. If one of the service agents within a service agent group becomes available the ACD connects a next client connection from the queue to the available service agent .

The secondary queue component may be coupled to a primary queue as an accessory device. The secondary queue component maintains the queue position of the communication device in a manner that does not require the communication device to remain on hold or otherwise maintain an active telephone connection with the primary queue . More specifically for a communication device calling the communication center utilizing the primary queue the secondary queue component may 1 obtain a network address for communication device e.g. a telephone network call back telephone number or other telephone network address and 2 write the network address of the telephone connection to a record of the queuing table for example record in the event a user of communication device calls the communication center in a primary manner . Further the secondary queue component may at the appropriate connection time 3 induce the call back system to establish a connection to the communication device utilizing the call back number. Inducing the call back system to establish the connection may include generating a call back message to the call back system .

The secondary queue component may also e.g. communication devices being added to a queue utilizing telephone system obtain a network address of a telephone connection to the communication device e.g. a telephone network call back telephone number or other telephone network address via the messaging discussed above with respect to messages and in . The secondary queue component may write the network address of the telephone connection to a record of the queuing table for example record in the event a user of communication device utilizing system for being added to queue and at the appropriate connection time induce the call back system to establish a connection to a communication device utilizing the call back number. Inducing the call back system to establish the connection may include generating a call back message to the call back system . The call back message may include identification of the telephone number to which the call back system is to establish a telephone connection and identifying the queue and or service agent group to which the telephone connection is to be connected.

After the call back system has established a connection with the communication device it may generate a priority connection to the available service agent within the appropriate service agent group 

The priority connection may be a transfer of the communication device connection to the primary queue . Transfer may occur via a command such that the primary queue connects the client to the next available one of the service agents within the required service agent group e.g. places the client at the front of the queue . The priority connection may also be a connection directly to the next available service agent bypassing primary queue .

The secondary queue system may comprise a secondary queue application and a secondary queue table . The secondary queue table maintains for each communication device being handled by the secondary queue component call back information. In more detail secondary queue table may comprise a plurality of records . Each record associates a client identifier with a call back telephone number or other network identifier to which a telephone connection may be established with the subject communication device or other communication receiving device at a connection time . Secondary queue table may also include a service agent ID identifying the service agent or subset of the group of service agents to which the client is to be connected.

In one aspect the secondary queue application monitors the passage of time and upon determining that time has advanced to the connection time of one of the records of the secondary queue table drives the call back system to establish a telephony connection to the subject client. Again the telephony connection may be a primary PSTN connection or a telephony connection using an alternative technology such as VoIP.

After establishing the telephony connection the priority connection to a service agent within the required service agent group is generated.

The expected wait time component may be part of the secondary queue system part of the primary queue ACD or a separate accessory system interoperating with the secondary queue system and the primary queue ACD .

In addition to the communication device a communication receiving device may be used with the system to establish a voice connection.

Program memory further comprises software code executed by processor to control the functions of device including configuring and controlling various components such as radio transceiver user interface and or host interface . Program memory may also comprise various application programs that provide portions of the functionality of device as described herein when executed by processor . In some embodiments program memory may comprise a browser with one or more plug in modules capable of utilizing Java script ActiveX or other downloadable code when executed by processor . Program memory may further comprise a protocol stack for data communication with external devices and systems including IP TCP HTTP RTP RTSP and other standardized or proprietary protocols known to persons of ordinary skill in the art. Program memory may further comprise protocols and applications e.g. a telephone communication application for signaling establishing and maintaining audio communications e.g. telephone calls with external devices and systems. The software code comprising program memory may be specified or written using any known or future developed programming language such as e.g. Java C C Objective C HTML XHTML and assembler as long as the desired functionality is preserved.

Data memory may comprise memory area for processor to store variables used in protocols configuration control and other functions of device including the display of one or more of the exemplary screen displays shown and or described herein. As such program memory and data memory may comprise non volatile memory e.g. flash memory volatile memory e.g. static or dynamic RAM or a combination thereof. Furthermore data memory may comprise a memory slot by which removable memory cards in one or more formats e.g. SD Card Memory Stick and Compact Flash may be inserted and removed. Persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that processor may comprise multiple individual processors not shown each of which implements a portion of the functionality described above. In such case multiple individual processors may be commonly connected to program memory and data memory or individually connected to multiple individual program memories and or data memories. More generally persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that various protocols and other functions of device may be implemented in many different combinations of hardware and software including but not limited to application processors signal processors general purpose processors multi core processors ASICs fixed digital circuitry programmable digital circuitry analog baseband circuitry radio frequency circuitry software firmware and middleware.

Radio transceiver may comprise various radio frequency transmitter and or receiver functionality including any necessary antennas that enables device to communicate with other equipment supporting like wireless communication standards. In some embodiments radio transceiver may include an LTE transmitter and receiver that enable device to communicate with various Long Term Evolution LTE networks also known as 4G according to standards promulgated by 3GPP. In some embodiments radio transceiver includes circuitry firmware etc. necessary for device to communicate with various UMTS and or GSM EDGE networks also according to 3GPP standards. In some embodiments radio transceiver includes circuitry firmware etc. necessary for device to communicate with various CDMA2000 networks according to 3GPP2 standards. In some embodiments radio transceiver is capable of communicating using radio technologies that operate in unlicensed frequency bands such as IEEE 802.11 WiFi that operates in the ISM bands in the regions of 2.4 and 5.6 GHz. In some embodiments radio transceiver may comprise a transceiver that is capable of wired communication such as by using IEEE 802.3 Ethernet technology. The functionality particular to each of these embodiments may be coupled with or controlled by other circuitry in device such as processor executing protocol program code stored in program memory .

Device further comprises an NFC transceiver which comprises an NFC reader and in some embodiments an NFC writer that is capable of altering the memory contents of a programmable NFC tag. In some embodiments NFC transceiver may be removably connected to device e.g. via a port connector etc. In some embodiments NFC transceiver may be communicably coupled to device via a wired or wireless connection e.g. a short range wireless connection such as Bluetooth. In such embodiments bus may comprise additional circuitry necessary for interfacing NFC transceiver with processor and other components of device .

Since NFC technology is well known in the art only a brief description of this technology is presented here for context. Further information is available for example in NFC Data Exchange Format NDEF Technical Specification NFC Record Type Definition RTD Technical Specification NFC Text RTD Technical Specification NFC URI RTD Technical Specification all dated Jul. 24 2006 NFC Type 1 Tag Operation Specification dated Apr. 13 2011 all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties as well as other specifications published by the NFC Forum. NFC is a short range wireless connectivity technology that uses magnetic field induction to permit devices to share information with each other. NFC transceivers typically operate in the 13.56 MHz frequency spectrum and may transfer data at rates up to 848 kilobits second. Communication between two NFC capable devices occurs when they are brought into contact or at least within sufficiently close physical proximity of each other. Typical operational distance is between 0 and 4 centimeters although the distance can be as great as 20 centimeters in some embodiments.

NFC devices may or may not include their own source of power. Some NFC devices e.g. a mobile phone may draw power from an integrated battery while some NFC devices e.g. an NFC enabled kiosk may draw power from an external power mains e.g. via an AC to DC converter. Those NFC devices having a source of power that enables them to transmit NFC signals are commonly referred to as active devices while those devices that do not include their own source of power are commonly known as passive devices or tags. NFC tags utilize a magnetic field radiated by an active NFC device such as an NFC reader for power. Once the active NFC device is close enough to the NFC tag the energy from the magnetic field powers the passive NFC tag so that it can establish an NFC communication link and communicate data with the active NFC device.

NFC transceiver of comprises an active transceiver circuit capable of communicating information and data with an external NFC capable device such as a passive NFC tag. NFC interface may include its own power supply or draw power from a battery associated with device such that it is capable of powering a passive NFC tag when brought into sufficient proximity. Once an NFC link is established the NFC tag transmits information and or data stored in its memory to NFC transceiver . However NFC transceiver is not limited to communicating information and data solely with passive NFC tags. In some embodiments NFC transceiver may be capable of operating in a peer mode with other external active NFC devices. Once the two devices are placed within sufficient physical proximity of each other the data exchange between the two devices is bidirectional. In some embodiments NFC transceiver may be capable of operating in a tag emulation mode. In this mode NFC transceiver sleeps until it detects magnetic energy from another external NFC device such as an NFC reader which triggers NFC transceiver to wake up and operate like a programmable tag to communicate data to from the external NFC device.

User interface may take various forms depending on the particular embodiment of device . In some embodiments device is a mobile phone in which case user interface may comprise a microphone a loudspeaker slidable buttons depressable buttons a display a touchscreen display a mechanical or virtual keypad a mechanical or virtual keyboard and or any other user interface features commonly found on mobile phones. In such mobile phone embodiments the particular features comprising the device may depend on whether the device is a smartphone feature phone or other type of mobile phone. In other embodiments device is a tablet computing device such as an iPad sold by Apple Inc. comprising a touchscreen display that is much larger than touchscreen displays found on mobile phones. In such tablet embodiments one or more of the mechanical features of user interface may be replaced by comparable or functionally equivalent virtual user interface features e.g. virtual keypad virtual buttons etc. implemented using the touchscreen display of device as familiar to persons of ordinary skill in the art. In other embodiments device may be a digital computing device such as a laptop computer desktop computer workstation etc. that comprises a mechanical keyboard that may be integrated detached or detachable depending on the particular embodiment.

In embodiments where device comprises a touch screen display the user may select a display element by touching an area on the touch screen display that corresponds to relates to or is associated with that display element. In these embodiments the user may select an item from a single menu or hierarchical series of menus and or sub menus by dragging a finger along the screen area corresponding to the displayed menus then releasing it in the area corresponding to the final selection. Other ways of manipulating information in touch screen display embodiments will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art.

In other embodiments of device user interface may comprise a non touch screen display and one or more user input devices that are physically separate from the display such as a keyboard a mouse a trackpad a joystick etc. In these embodiments the user may select a display element for example by using the mouse to position a cursor over the desired element and clicking a button on the mouse to select the element as known to persons of ordinary skill in the art. Similarly the user may select an item from a single menu or hierarchical series of menus and or sub menus by dragging a finger along the screen area corresponding to the displayed menus then releasing it in the area corresponding to the final selection. Other ways of manipulating information in non touch screen display embodiments will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art.

In some embodiments user interface may comprise a speech recognition module that translates words or phrases spoken by the user into inputs and or commands for device . Such embodiments may utilize the speaker of device to provide a message tone etc. prompting the user for input then utilize the microphone and associated circuitry to capture and digitize an audio signal comprising the user s speech. The audio signal then can be analyzed by speech recognition software executing on processor to extract the user s inputs or commands contained therein. Finally these inputs and or commands can be sent to another application executing on device e.g. as search term inputs for a search engine client application or for selection of the display element corresponding to the user s speech.

In some embodiments device may comprise an orientation sensor which can be used to sense when the user has changed the physical orientation of the device s display. An indication signal from the orientation sensor may be available to any application program executing on device such that an application program may change the orientation of a screen display e.g. from portrait to landscape automatically when the indication signal shows a 90 degree change in physical orientation of the device. In this manner the application program can maintain the screen display in a manner that is readable by the user regardless of the physical orientation of the device.

Host interface of device also may take various forms depending on the particular embodiment of device . In embodiments where device is a mobile phone host interface may comprise a USB interface an HDMI interface or the like. In some embodiments device may comprise more functionality than is shown in . In some embodiments device may also comprise functionality such as a video and or still image camera microphone media player etc. Moreover radio transceiver may include circuitry necessary to communicate using additional radio frequency communication standards including Bluetooth GPS and or others. Persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize the above list of features and radio frequency communication standards is merely exemplary and not limiting to the scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly processor may execute software code stored in program memory to control such additional functionality.

The applications encoded in program memory may include a telephone communication application and or appropriate systems adapted to drive operation of the user interface and the session queuing component . As mentioned above a telephone communication application may be adapted to signal establish and maintain an audio communication session either as the session initiator or receiver with remote endpoint devices over compatible networks e.g. PSTNs PLMNs packet based networks etc. utilized for audio communications. According to the diagram shown in the endpoint devices may include for example business communication center systems for signaling establishing and maintaining audio communication sessions between each service agent and the business clients each of which may utilize one of the communication devices for communication with the business.

Program memory may further comprise a session queuing component . The session queuing component may include a launch object rendered by processor as an icon on the display screen comprising user interface . User selection of the icon associated with the launch object may cause device to launch operation of the session queuing component .

Referring now to for purposes of performing the above described functions visible objects of the session queuing component following activation by selection of the icon associated with the launch object include a provider control a service control and a confirmation control . The confirmation control may include a window for confirming the identifier of a communication device i.e. the call back telephone number utilized to establish an inbound telephone call to the communication device or other unique call back identifier used to establish an audio session with the communication device an accept control object and a cancel control object

In an exemplary embodiment the telephone number of the communication device may be pre populated to the window object with the window object being active to enable the user to modify the telephone number in the event he or she desires the call back to be to a communication receiving device that is different than communication device . The cancel control object may be a selection button adapted to detect user selection. Upon detecting user selection cancel control object may be adapted to terminate operation of the session queuing component. The accept control object may be a selection button adapted to launch the confirmation client upon user selection. Upon launch of the session queuing component the visible objects of the session queuing component may be rendered on the display screen as depicted in .

The provider control may be rendered in an active state with the group of providers populated into its drop down menu. From this menu the user may select providers from the selected business communication center. The service control is shown in an active state. The service control and the confirmation control may be rendered in an inactive state i.e. rendered with no populated data inoperable and rendered with a gray tint to indicate the inactive state . In an embodiment the provider client shown in populates the provider control with a listing of the providers from the group of providers .

Referring now to shown is an illustration of the provider control . The provider control may be a drop down menu control which displays a group of providers . From this menu the user may select a provider from the selected business communication center.

The service control may be a drop down menu control as represented by which displays for the selected provider the services queues of a group of services queues associated with the selected provider s business communication center. A user may select a service from this menu.

Exemplary providers include Company A and Company B. For purposes of illustration Company A may be a utility company and its services queues associated with its business communication center may include a service queue for reporting loss of services a service queue for handling billing matters and a default service queue for handling other matters.

Company B for illustration may be a bank and its services queues associated with its business communication center may include a service for handling of checking savings or other deposit accounts a service for handling credit card accounts a service for handling mortgage accounts and a default service for handling other matters.

The remote processing call may be encapsulated within appropriate TCP IP and HTTP headers and other transport layer information such as source IP address and source port number of the requesting device and destination IP address and destination port number of the sequence component . Such combination may be encapsulated within appropriate media layer protocols for transmission across physical communication media via various physical layer segments interconnecting the requesting device and the sequence component .

More specifically referring to and the active provider routine includes a looking up at step in an active providers data store a list of active providers associated with the user. The active providers data store and may include a group of records with each record associating a user ID with identification of a group of active providers associated with user ID . Step represents building an active providers message shown in for return to the device generating the active providers remote processing call shown in .

It should be appreciated that the above described structure and processes for populating the provider control is exemplary only. Those skilled in the art will also recognize that the list of providers could be obtained and stored within the communication device . A list of providers stored within the communication device may then be used for populating both the provider control and the active queue control . Upon receiving a selection of a provider from the list of active providers rendered or shown within the provider control the service client routine requests a listing of active queues from the active queue routine or process of the sequence component . The service client routine populates the service control with a listing of active queues associated with the selected provider.

More specifically referring to the active queue routine or process includes looking up at step in an active queues data store a list of active queues associated with the selected provider. The active queues data store may include a group of records with each record associating a company ID identifying a provider with identification of a group of active queues associated with the company ID . The build active queues list step represents building an active queues message described above for return to the device generating the active queue remote processing call described above . Upon receipt of the active queues message by service client routine the service control is populated by the list of active queues as discussed with respect to .

It should be appreciated that the above described structure and processes for populating the service control is exemplary only. Those skilled in the art will also recognize that lists of active queues for each provider could be obtained and stored within the communication device utilizing one or more remote processing calls prior to user selection. As such list of providers and active queues stored within the communication device may then be used to populate both the provider control and the active queue control . It is further envisioned that both the provider control and the service control may be combined within a single control listing combinations of a provider and a service.

More specifically referring to the expected wait time routine or process includes obtaining at step from the expected wait time component associated with the selected queue of the selected provider the expected wait time for the selected queue. Such step may include sending a remote processing call to the expected wait time component with data arguments of the remote processing call including identification of the selected queue. In some embodiments the operations of steps may comprise obtaining the number of clients currently waiting in the selected queue. The return expected wait time to calling device step represents the expected wait time component building an expected wait time message . The expected wait time message can then be sent to the device generating the expected wait time remote processing call . In some embodiments the operations of step may comprise building and sending an expected wait time message comprising the number of clients currently waiting in the selected queue.

Referring back to upon receipt of the expected wait time response message the expected wait time value identifying the expected wait time duration of time is rendered on the display screen as depicted by reference numeral . In some embodiments not shown the number of clients currently waiting in the selected queue is rendered on the display screen. Following display of the identification of the duration of time or the number of clients as the case may be the confirmation control may be activated for obtaining user input.

As discussed the confirmation control may include a window for confirming a telephone number of the communication device or the communication receiving device i.e. the telephone number utilized to establish an inbound telephone call to the communication device or the communication receiving device a confirmation control and a cancel control

In an exemplary embodiment the telephone number of the communication device may be pre populated to the window object with the window object being active to enable the user to modify the telephone number in the event he or she desires the call back to be to a communication receiving device that is different from communication device . The accept control object may be a selection button adapted to launch the confirmation client upon user selection. The cancel control may be a selection button adapted to detect user selection. Upon detecting user selection the cancel control object may be adapted to terminate operation of the session queuing component.

The confirmation client shown in may be adapted to send a confirmation remote processing call to the sequence component via the message structure described above. In this instance the data arguments may include at least the identification of a telephone number or other telephone network address of the communication receiving device or communication device that the user desires for use in the connection to the service agent. Typically such identification will be a PSTN or PLMN telephone number that the provider systems will use as a call back number to establish a telephone connection between the user and a service agent at the appropriate call back time.

Further the arguments of the confirmation remote processing call may include identification of the selected provider and selected queue which the user desires to join. Alternatively the arguments may include a session ID matched to previous remote processing calls such that the sequence component may determine the selected provider and selected queue which the user desires to join.

More specifically referring to the confirmation routine or process includes at step generating an add to queue instruction . The instruction may include for example a queue ID of the selected queue and the call back number e.g. the telephone network identifier of the communication receiving device in a format compatible for transmission to the selected business communication center s systems. The step of passing the add to queue instruction to the queue component of the selected provider is shown in . This step includes packaging the SOAP formatted add to queue instruction with applicable transport layer and media layer for transmission as discussed above. Upon receipt the queue component of the selected provider may add the user to the selected queue.

NFC tags may contain a wide variety of information with the amount constrained only by the capacity of the particular tag. Currently the NFC Forum has standardized four different tag formats known as Types 1 through 4 respectively. Type 1 and Type 2 tags are based on ISO IEC standard 14443 part A and are capable during operation of being read written and or write protected by a compatible NFC reader. A Type 1 Tag can hold at least 48 bytes of data while a Type 2 tag can hold at least 96 bytes of user data although they are allowed to hold up to 2 kbytes. Type 3 tags are based on the Japanese Industrial Standard JIS X 6319 4 while Type 4 tags are compatible with ISO IEC 14443 parts A and B both are manufactured to be either read only or readable re writable. The data capacities of Type 3 and Type 4 tags are 1 Mbyte and 32 kbytes respectively although neither has a minimum data capacity. Unless otherwise specified usage of the term NFC tag herein encompasses both a passive NFC tag and an active NFC device operating in tag emulation mode as described above in more detail.

Various higher layer communication protocols and message formats can be used for communication between an NFC tag and an NFC reader. For example the NFC Forum has standardized the NFC Forum Data Exchange Format NDEF which is a lightweight binary message encapsulation format that can be used to encapsulate one or more application specific payloads of arbitrary type and size into a single message exchanged between two NFC devices e.g. an NFC reader and an NFC tag. Each NDEF payload is accompanied and described by type length and optional identifier parameters. Payload types include for example absolute Universal Resource Identifiers URIs such as defined in RFC3986 Multipurpose Internet Mail Extension MIME media types such as defined in RFC2046 e.g. image jpeg NFC specific types and NFC external types which can be defined according to the needs of a specific application. For example a payload comprising an eXtensible Markup Language XML document according to RFC3023 may be indicated by a payload type of application xml charset utf 16 . An NDEF message contains one or more NDEF records each of which may carry a payload of arbitrary type. Within an NDEF message the records may be placed in either a flat called association by reference or a hierarchical called association by containment arrangement in accordance with the NFC RTD Specification.

When two NFC capable devices are brought into sufficient proximity to each other an NDEF message may be transmitted across an NFC radio link from the source device to the destination device. Subsequently two different scenarios may occur at the destination device. In the case where the source is an NFC tag and the destination is an NFC reader the destination device will parse or deconstruct the NDEF message and pass the various NDEF payload s contained therein to one or more user application s activating such applications as necessary. In the case where the source is an NFC reader and the destination an NFC tag the NDEF message may be written to the NFC tag provided that the tag memory is write enabled.

Further information regarding NDEF RTDs and other aspects of exchanging information between two NFC capable devices e.g. an NFC tag and an NFC reader is available in the NFC specifications incorporated herein by reference as well as others published by the NFC Forum or other relevant standards organizations. The person of ordinary skill will understand that an NFC tag can contain nearly any type of information usable with respect to embodiments of the present disclosure. Moreover the person of ordinary skill will understand that an application can understandably read the information contained within an NFC tag via a compatible NFC reader e.g. an NFC tag and reader compliant with the same NFC Forum specifications.

An embodiment of a system and method for managing directing and queuing communication events captures information from an NFC tag associated with an item using an NFC reader e.g. an NFC reader contained within a mobile device. The information in the NFC tag can be any type of identifying information associated with the item or its provider e.g. one or more universal resource identifiers URIs of web pages one or more documents comprising web pages one or more phone numbers and or queue identifiers one or more actions one or more messages or a combination of any of the above depending on the embodiment. The captured information is used to determine potential queues and or phone numbers the user may wish to use. This can be done in various ways depending on the embodiment. In some embodiments determining may involve retrieving a web page comprising information related to the queues and or phone numbers. The web page may be stored on the NFC tag or on a remote server.

In some embodiments determining may comprise retrieving the phone numbers and or queue identifiers from the NFC tag. In some embodiments determining may comprise executing one or more actions read from the NFC tag. The determined phone numbers may correspond to a contact center associated with the item at which the individuals groups or divisions may be subject matter experts or those who have knowledge for answering questions or providing information or assistance to customers or requestors. These individuals groups or divisions may be arranged in one or more queues which may be further subdivided according to the particular type of service or assistance provided e.g. sales billing repair scheduling etc. .

Generally the method using call back information has several steps for example it may include two or more of the following steps a capture information from an NFC tag b determine one or more phone numbers queues or sets of queues based on the captured information c present the phone numbers or queues to a user who initiated capturing the information d receive a selection of one or more presented queues or phone numbers e display estimated wait time f request a call back or schedule a call back and g initiate a callback. The method can be used with a variety of hardware configurations including communication devices with NFC readers.

Embodiments of the system and method for managing directing and queuing communication events eliminate the need to find and dial a phone number associated with a product service provider organization etc. when one is not readily available. When the need arises a user can simply capture information from an NFC tag associated with an item using an NFC reader e.g. an NFC reader contained within a mobile device. The information in the NFC tag can be any type of identifying information associated with the item or its provider e.g. one or more documents comprising web pages one or more URIs of web pages stored on a remote server one or more phone numbers and or queue identifiers one or more actions one or more messages or a combination of any of the above depending on the embodiment. One or more phone numbers queues or sets of queues may be determined based on the captured information a callback may be initiated and the parties connected.

One skilled in the art will appreciate that NFC reader can be part of any type of communication device such as a mobile communication device a stationary scanner device a handheld scanning device or a kiosk. Various configurations of NFC readers are known to persons of ordinary skill in the art. The user may cause NFC reader of communication device to come in contact with or in sufficiently close proximity to NFC tag e.g. by moving NFC reader and or NFC tag so as to energize NFC tag for communicating the information contained therein to communication device which may display such information to the user in various forms. This information may comprise various information about item e.g. model number serial number etc. and or the provider or organization associated with item e.g. manufacturer name retailer name location etc. . The information captured from NFC tag may also comprise or relate to various available queues divisions or individual contacts.

In some embodiments the information captured from NFC tag may be used to render a display on communication device . In some embodiments the information comprises a URI from which a web page can be retrieved prior to rendering. The URI may be a universal resource locator URL or a universal resource name URN as known by persons of ordinary skill in the art. The URI may refer to a resource stored at a remote location e.g. a remote web server to a resource stored in the NFC tag or to a resource stored in the device itself. The information may further comprise metadata related to the URI such as a title actions etc. In some embodiments the information comprises a document e.g. an HTML XHTML or XML document that can be used to render an information display either by itself or in combination with other information e.g. a form stored on the device or captured from NFC tag . In other embodiments the information may comprise phone numbers and information identifying queues e.g. Sales Repairs associated with the phone numbers. In some embodiments the phone number may comprise a URI. These various types of information captured from NFC tag may be used by an application e.g. session queuing component stored in program memory of device as described above with reference to to render a display of information related to an item provider or organization including for example call back information.

An exemplary page of information rendered on display of communication device based on information captured from NFC tag is shown in . In this example item is a product and the exemplary web page comprises provider identifier e.g. company name product or service type identifier e.g. model name or number and optional item identifier e.g. product serial number fields. The information displayed in fields and may be captured from NFC tag . In addition the exemplary page comprises user selectable action controls and . If selected by the user action control causes communication device to place a telephone call to a phone number associated with the Accessory Sales organization of the provider of item . Similarly selection of action control by the user causes the communication device to access the provider s customer service web page and render that web page in display .

If action control is selected by the user this will cause the communication device to submit a request for a call back from the Customer Service organization of the provider of item . The request may be submitted by an application executing on device e.g. session queuing component and in some embodiments may comprise an identifier associated with device such as a phone number or network address. In some embodiments the application may automatically read the identifier from a known storage location e.g. phone number from the subscriber identity module or by using known methods associated with an interface e.g. an application programming interface . In other embodiments not shown the application may prompt the user to enter a device identifier for the call back which will then be included in the request. In other embodiments the request does not include an identifier.

Upon receiving the call back request the system for managing directing and queuing communication events for the provider s Customer Service organization determines wait information for the call back and sends a response to communication device comprising the wait information. In some embodiments an application executing in communication device displays an indication of the wait information to the user on display . In some embodiments the application prompts the user to confirm the call back and if the user does so sends a confirmation message to the system. An exemplary display comprising these and other elements is shown in . Display of device comprises a wait notification and a confirmation action button that if selected by the user will cause the application to send a call back confirmation message to the system. The user may also select the cancel action button which will cause the application to send a cancellation message to the system. Alternately the user may schedule a call back at a preferred time and date by entering appropriate values in time entry field and date entry field respectively. In some embodiments user selection of time entry field may cause the application to display a plurality of times e.g. 15 minute increments during the business day from which the user may select the preferred time. In some embodiments user selection of date entry field may cause the application to display a plurality of dates e.g. in a monthly calendar format from which the user may select the preferred date for the scheduled call back.

In some embodiments the user may enter a phone number to be used for the scheduled call back in number entry field . In case the user leaves field blank the application may assume that the user wishes to be called back at the number associated with device . After entering such information the user may select schedule action button which causes the application to send a scheduled call back request comprising such information to the system. In the event that the user leaves number field blank the application may automatically include an identifier associated with device in the scheduled call back request in the manner discussed above with reference to .

In some embodiments the exemplary display of will be shown to a user only if the indication value comprising the wait notification is greater than or equal to a predetermined duration. Otherwise an alternate display may be shown to the user. For example if the indication value comprises an expected wait time the display of may be shown to a user only if the expected wait time is greater than or equal to two 2 minutes. If the expected wait time is less than two 2 minutes the exemplary display of may be shown to the user. Here exemplary display of device comprises a wait notification and a direct connection action button e.g. Connect now that if selected by the user will cause the application to attempt to establish an immediate telephone connection with the system. The user may also select the cancel action button which will cause the application to send a cancellation message to the system. Alternately the user may schedule a call back at a preferred time and date in the same manner as shown in and described above in reference to . Depending on the embodiment display may comprise various combinations of action buttons and and entry fields and including all of the above.

After the expected wait time or an approximately equivalent time has elapsed or the waiting clients have been served as the case may be the system places an outgoing call to communication device . Alternatively an embodiment of the system places an outgoing call to another communication receiving device not shown having a phone number provided by the user e.g. in the call back request. One skilled in the art will appreciate that the expected wait time may be very brief substantially zero or less than a predetermined threshold in which case a call may be placed immediately connecting the user to a person or group of people eligible to provide information or answer questions. In such cases an immediate call may be placed based on user input such as described above with reference to or automatically without user intervention.

In some embodiments the displays of may comprise an indication of the number of clients waiting in the selected queue. In other words wait notifications shown in and shown in may comprise the number of clients waiting in the selected queue instead of or in addition to the expected wait times shown in the figures. These embodiments may otherwise have the same functionality as described above including presenting a display similar to display in when the number of waiting clients is greater than or equal to a predetermined value and presenting a display similar to display in when the number of waiting clients is less than a predetermined value.

Embodiments of the system and method for managing directing and queuing communication events eliminate the need for a user to research locate and find a specialist of a company to provide information or to answer questions regarding a product. When a question about a product or service arises a user can simply capture information from an NFC tag that is located in a store on a brochure on a coupon or on an actual product and initiate a callback from a specialist who can answer questions provide information or complete an order to be shipped. A specialist or other resource may be in any location including for example a contact center in the same store or in a different store. Thus a purchaser can obtain information about a particular product he is contemplating on purchasing while viewing a product at a store.

As described above in some embodiments information captured from an NFC tag affixed to or contained within a card may be used to locate one or more available queues suitable for a user. The information comprising the NFC tag on or in the card may be associated either directly or indirectly to queues or groups of resources. In other words the card may be associated directly to queues or with particular people or a business group of people. Those people or groups of people typically correspond to or are related to available queues. In some embodiments queues may be created and populated de novo for each specific information based request depending on business rules established by a company. Virtually any type of card may be used with the system including for example plastic paper magnetic metal cards and the like credit cards store cards VIP cards money cards gift cards point cards award cards library card cards associated with products or devices such as a doll s ID card or an automobile card and cards associated with services.

As discussed above an NFC reader may be used to capture information from the NFC tag affixed to or contained within the card. In some embodiments at least a portion of the captured information may be sent to a central location which relates it to one or more queues or groups of resources. Information about queues or groups may be sent to the user. In other embodiments the information captured from the NFC tag comprises information about the queues or groups. In either case a session queuing component displays the associated queues to the user. Estimated wait time information may or may not be made available to the user. Using this queue information the user is able to select a desired queue or queues. A callback or scheduled call can then be arranged. As with the other embodiments the card reader may be portable handheld or stationary. Various types of card readers and card combinations may be used.

The operation of block can be performed in various ways depending on the embodiment. In some embodiments the operation may involve retrieving and or parsing a document e.g. an HTML XHTML or XML document that can be used to render a display page comprising information related to the persons queues and or phone numbers. In some embodiments the entire document may be stored on and retrieved from the NFC tag in block . In some embodiments the document may be retrieved from a resource specified by a URI that is captured from the NFC tag in block . In some embodiments the captured URI may be combined with other information captured in block to form a combined URI. For example a provider identifier a model identifier an item identifier a base URI and an action may be captured from the NFC tag in block . Subsequently in block the base URI is combined with the provider model and item identifiers according to the action to form a combined URI. The resource specified by the combined URI is then accessed as a database query which returns a document e.g. HTML document .

In some embodiments the operation of block may comprise combining certain information captured from the NFC tag in block retrieving other information from another resource specified by a URI that is captured from the NFC tag in block and combining the captured and retrieved information. For example a provider identifier a model identifier an item identifier and a form URI may be captured from the NFC tag in block . Subsequently in block the form URI is accessed to retrieve a form e.g. an HTML or XML form then combined with the provider model and item identifiers to create a document e.g. HTML or XML document that can be used to render a display page.

In other embodiments the operation of block may comprise combining certain information captured from the NFC tag in block with other information stored on the communication device associated with the NFC reader. For example the information captured in block may comprise phone numbers and information identifying queues e.g. Sales Repairs associated with the phone numbers. In some embodiments the phone number may comprise a URI. The information stored on the communication device may be a form e.g. an HTML or XML form which may be associated with an application. The application may combine the captured information and the form to create a document that can be used to render a display page.

In block an application displays identification of the one or more active queues on a display screen of the communication device. The application may comprise a session queuing component that resides within the communication device. Next in block an application obtains a selection e.g. from a user of one of the one or more active queues as a selected queue. The application may comprise a session queuing component that resides within the communication device. In block a request for wait information for the selected queue is sent to the communication system in a data format. In block wait information is received from the communication system. In block a call back confirmation is sent to the communication system in a data format.

The above described system represents an exemplary embodiment of a connection system for sequencing communication device identifiers in a selected queue for connection to a service agent of a group of service agents at a business communication center. The present disclosure includes all such equivalents and modifications and is limited only by the scope of the following claims.

