---

title: Control of light-emitting-diode backlight illumination through frame insertion
abstract: System(s) and methode s) are provided to regulate backlighting in a light emitting diode (LED)-based display through a sequence of alternate pulse-width-modulation (PWM) frame or sub-frame insertions. Alternate PWM frames or sub-frames can be black or non-black. A plurality of pixels in the display is partitioned into at least one zone including one or more rows of pixels; the at least one zone determines sub-frame period based on refresh frequency of the display. A sequence of alternate PWM sub-frames includes at least one alternate sub-frame and at least one normal sub-frame. Alternate PWM frames or alternate PWM sub-frames include a phase delay during which a backlight unit is turned off, and a PWM sequence in which the backlight unit is turned on with a finite duty cycle for the remainder of the PWM frame or sub-frame.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08547323&OS=08547323&RS=08547323
owner: Atmel Corporation
number: 08547323
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120323
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 688 742 entitled Control of Light Emitting Diode Backlight Illumination Through Frame Insertion filed on Jan. 15 2010 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The subject disclosure relates to illumination systems that include light emitting diode LED technology and more specifically to regulation of backlight unit operation in a display based in part on insertion of black or non black sub frames or frames.

Backlights are used to illuminate liquid crystal displays LCDs . LCDs with backlights are used in small displays for cell phones and personal digital assistants PDAs as well as in large displays for computer monitors and televisions. Often the light source for the backlight includes one or more cold cathode fluorescent lamps CCFLs . The light source for the backlight can also be an incandescent light bulb an electroluminescent panel ELP or one or more hot cathode fluorescent lamps HCFLs .

The display industry is enthusiastically pursuing the use of light emitting diodes LEDs as the light source in backlight display technology because CCFLs have many shortcomings For instance CCFLs do not easily ignite in cold temperatures they require adequate idle time to ignite and they require delicate handling. Moreover LEDs generally have a higher ratio of light generated to power consumed than other backlight sources. Accordingly displays with LED backlights can consume less power than other displays which renders LED based displays more sustainable. LED backlighting has traditionally been used in small inexpensive LCD panels. However LED backlighting is becoming more common in large displays such as those installed in computers and television sets. In large displays multiple LEDs are required to provide adequate backlight for the LCD display.

In LCD displays electrostatic response of a plurality of pixels to applied voltages associated with data provision can vary substantially within the display locus as a result of raster mechanism employed to configure the data in each of the plurality of pixels. In particular conventional approaches to frame to frame update typically cease display e.g. backlight unit is turned off for frames or sub frames that are newly update and expected not to have settled a voltage associated with supplied data. Such black out can cause image artifacts and can limit utilization of at least a portion of pixels in the plurality of pixels comprising the LCD display with ensuing operation inefficiency thereof.

The following presents a simplified summary of the subject disclosure in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects thereof. This summary is not an extensive overview of the various embodiments of the subject disclosure. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements nor delineate any scope. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

One or more embodiments provide system s and method s to regulate backlighting in a light emitting diode LED based liquid crystal display LCD through a sequence of alternate pulse width modulation PWM frames or sub frames. Alternate frames can be black or non black. Likewise an alternate sub frame can be black or non black. A sequence of alternate PWM sub frames includes at least one alternate sub frame and at least one normal sub frame. Likewise a sequence of alternate PWM frames includes at least one alternate frame and at least one normal frame. A plurality of pixels in the LCD display is partitioned into at least one zone including one or more rows of pixels. The number of zones in a partition determines sub frame period based on refresh frequency of the LCD display. Alternate PWM frames or alternate PWM sub frames include a phase delay during which a backlight unit is turned off and a PWM sequence in which the backlight unit is turned on with a finite duty cycle for the remainder of the sub frame. Normal PWM frames or sub frames also include a phase delay that is smaller than the phase delay for an alternate PWM frame or sub frame in a same insertion sequence. Backlight unit remains off during phase delay interval and is turned on according to a PWM sequence with finite duty cycle. A sequence of alternate PWM sub frames can be configured internally or externally. Internal configuration exploits a multiplied instance of a reference clock signal whereas external configuration relies on an external reference signal. Internal configuration leads to a periodic sequence of alternate PWM sub frame insertions whereas external configuration results in an asynchronous sequence of PWM sub frame insertions.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more aspects comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more aspects. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various aspects may be employed and this description is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

The subject disclosure is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It may be evident however that the various embodiments of the subject disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the present disclosure.

As employed in this specification and annexed drawings the terms component system interface controller multiplier and the like are intended to include a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein the entity can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. One or more of such entities are also referred to as functional elements. As an example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or a firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that provides at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components. While the foregoing examples are directed to aspects of a component the exemplified aspects or features also apply to a system interface multiplier and the like.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Furthermore the term set as employed herein excludes the empty set e.g. the set with no elements therein. Thus a set in the subject disclosure includes one or more elements or entities. As an illustration a set of LED strings includes one or more LED strings a set of frames in includes one or more frames etc.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches also can be used.

Display controller includes a timing signal generator component also referred herein and in annexed drawings as timing generator which produces clock signals utilized to scan the plurality of pixels in pixel circuitry . The clock signals can include vertical synchronization VSYNC signal and gate shift clock GSC signal. Timing signal generator also can multiply the frequency of the clock signals to generate timing signals with higher frequency. Through multiplication of the frequency of at least one of the clock signals the timing signal generator can produce a timing signal that defines a sub frame period for scanning a plurality of pixels that is part of pixel circuitry. Moreover timing signal generator can scale or divide the amplitude of one or more of the clock signals. In an example embodiment e.g. illustrated in timing signal generator includes a phase multiplier control also referred to as phase multiplier control component that can output an M bit with M a natural number multiplier for the a reference clock signal e.g. VSYNC. In embodiment M is equal to 5 bits and thus the can be multiplied up to a factor of 2 32. The M bit output is collected by digital locked loop DLL rate multiplier which produces the multiplied version of M . In addition in example embodiment timing signal generator includes GSC multiplier control component also referred to as GSC multiplier control which supplies a P bit with P a natural number register that allows multiplication of the GSC signal for a factor ranging from 1 to 2 in example embodiment P equals 5 bits. GSC DLL rate multiplier supplies a multiplied version of GSC signal e.g. P GSC to GSC prescaler counter component also referred to as GSC prescaler counter component which collects N bit output from GSC prescaler control component also referred to as GSC prescaler control and divides the multiplied signal by 2. In an aspect N equals 4 bit and the GSC signal can be divided by a factor of up to 16.

Timing signal generator supplies processed e.g. multiplied or scaled clock signals to PWM counter component also referred to herein as PWM counter component . Example embodiment in includes a set of one or more PWM counter s . If a multiplier greater than 1 is applied to clock signal such processed clock signal can be employed to determine a sub frame structure for rendering data in example display . In addition processed e.g. multiplied clock signal can be employed to internally configure a sequence of alternate sub frame insertions or a sequence of alternate frame insertions as described in greater detail below.

In an aspect of the subject innovation alternate signal selector can convey an indication e.g. a data packet a multi bit word a command . . . to timing signal generator to configure or select or define internal generation of a sequence of PWM sub frame insertions or a sequence of alternate PWM frame insertions. Such indication can be a request to timing signal generator to generate an internal selection or control signal and supply such signal to PWM counter . In addition alternate signal selector can select a specific waveform e.g. period in periodic waveform amplitudes and various ON or OFF time intervals in a non periodic waveform . . . for the internal selection signal and convey the selected waveform as part of the indication to timing signal generator . Alternate signal selector can receive an external signal to externally select or define a sequence of alternate sub frame insertions or a sequence of alternate frame insertions. External signal can be received in response to a request from alternate signal selector to an external clock source e.g. an external timing signal generator not shown . Alternate signal selector can access configuration data within memory in order to establish whether alternate PWM frame insertions or alternate PWM sub frame insertions are defined through rising signal or lowering signal that are part of the selected internal control signal or the received external signal .

In another aspect of the subject disclosure for either internally or externally selected or configured sequences of alternate PWM sub frame insertions or alternate PWM frame insertions alternate signal selector can access one or more registers in memory to extract a phase delay for an alternate sub frame or an alternate frame and a phase delay for a normal sub frame or frame. In addition for an alternate sub frame or frame and a normal sub frame or frame phase signal generator component can access memory and extract from one or more registers at least one value of one or more duty cycles for backlight illumination of the plurality of pixels in pixel circuitry. Phase signal generator component is also referred to herein and annexed drawings as phase signal generator . In example embodiment one or more phase delay register s can embody a set of one or more register s and include at least one value of phase delay for at least one normal sub frame or frame. Likewise one or more alternate phase delay register s can embody a set of one or more register s and include at least one value of phase delay for at least one alternate sub frame or frame. In addition one or more PWM duty register s and one or more alternate PWM duty register s embody a set of one or more register s and determine respectively at least one value for a duty cycle of backlight illumination for at least one normal frame or sub frame and at least one alternate sub frame or frame.

In an aspect of the subject disclosure driver controller supply one or more values of alternate and normal phase delays and duty cycles to PWM counter and implement in part one or more sequences of alternate sub frame insertions or one or more sequences of alternate frame insertions. In addition driver controller can apply voltage s to backlight circuitry and strings of LEDs therein to turn on or off illumination in accordance with aspects described herein. In addition based in part on one or more register s e.g. current control register in example embodiment driver controller can supply currents to backlight circuitry and one or more LED strings therein to vary intensity of emitted light in the one or more LED strings when those turned on.

Features of alternate and normal sub frames and frames are discussed next. illustrates a diagram of two sub frames sub frame 0 and sub frame 1 for rendering of an image in accordance with aspects described herein. In an aspect of the subject innovation backlight for each sub frame is regulated differently as illustrated in diagram which presents a LED string pulse width output setting. For sub frame 0 data associated with an image settles in a longer time scale than in subsequent sub frames e.g. sub frame 1. In particular though not exclusively for an applied voltage in a data line driving the capacitor associated with the pixel voltage drop at the capacitor is established in a longer time span for the first sub frame e.g. sub frame 0 than for a subsequent sub frame e.g. sub frame 1. As an illustration a time to nearly fully establish a voltage across the capacitor in a pixel can be substantially 3.47 s.

In contrast to conventional backlight illumination approaches which turn off backlight illumination of the first sub frame for the duration of the sub frame in an aspect of the subject disclosure the first sub frame e.g. sub frame 0 backlight illumination is turned off for a portion of the first sub frame while backlight illumination is turned on for the remainder of the duration of the sub frame. As illustrated in diagrams and in an embodiment in which backlight illumination is implemented via one or more LED strings LEDs and regulated through PWM sequence e.g. for sub frame 0 the one or more LED strings are turned off for an interval and turned on for an interval wherein the time to fully settle or nearly fully settle a pixel image or data voltage is . In addition for sub frames subsequent to sub frame 0 for example sub frame 1 in which the image voltage to be rendered settled is generally a variation of the image rendered in sub frame 0 backlight illumination is turned off for an interval and turned on for an interval wherein the time to settle satisfy or substantially satisfy . In an aspect when backlight unit e.g. set of LED strings and associated driver s backlight circuitry is on current supplied to one or more strings of LEDs can be adjusted e.g. increased or decreased to a desired value based on various factors such as content e.g. if low red content in data to be rendered then string of red LEDs can be supplied with a low current to establish a low intensity. In the subject disclosure each of the values and is termed phase delay and the ratio amongst such delays satisfy 

In an example embodiment 3.47 s or 3.47 s such values are suitable for a single pixel. Other values of are contemplated in the subject disclosure. In an aspect such as alternative or additional values are dictated by a number of pixel lines or gating lines. In typical LCD displays spatial scale of a pixel is substantially smaller than typical length scale of backlight sources. In LED based LCD displays a single set of red green and blue LEDs can illuminate a plurality of pixels. In such scenario insertion of alternate sub frames or alternate frames see below is applied to one or more zones each including a plurality of pixels. represent various example zone partitions of a display area or panel in accordance with aspects described herein. LED string PWM output setting can thus be applied to a set of one or more LED strings that illuminate a set of one or more pixel lines or gating lines. Diagram illustrates a partition in P 5 zones each including n N 5 pixel lines wherein N e.g. 1200 is the total number of pixel lines in the display. The illustrated display has a refresh frequency which leads to a frame period . Accordingly when inserting alternated a PWM sub frames to regulate backlighting the sub frame period can be dictated by k which correspond to time necessary to scan a zone. In an example for 240 Hz 4.167 ms. Similarly diagram illustrates a partition in eight zones which results in regulation of backlight illumination of a smaller number of pixels. In such scenarios backlight unit e.g. set of one or more LED strings is turned on after all pixels or substantially all pixels in a zone e.g. zone 1 are settled.

Diagrams and present partitions in four and 16 tiles respectively. Such partition allows regulation of backlight illumination in accordance with alternate sub frame insertion described herein for sub set of LED strings. In particular though not exclusively phase delays and duty cycles for alternate and normal sub frames can vary from tile to tile. It should be appreciated that sub frame time period in the presence of a tiled partition is determined by the number of vertical tiles For example in diagram sub frame period is 4 which for 240 Hz nearly equals 0.833 ms.

In an aspect the larger the number P of zones in which the display area is divided the higher the efficiency of the display with respect to duty cycle of the backlight unit e.g. a set of LED strings and associated driver s in the display. As discussed supra at the single pixel level which is electrostatically equivalent to a single line of pixels duty cycle is 100 after phase delay elapses. As examples for N 1000 K 5 results in effective duty cycle of substantially 80 while for K 8 the effective duty cycle is substantially 87.5 .

It should be appreciated that in one or more embodiments in which Q 1 with Q an natural number greater than unity subsequent sub frames are included not shown each of the sub frames 1 2 3 . . . Q 1 can have respective phase delays . . . . In an aspect 

In the subject disclosure sub frame 0 with phase delay is termed an alternate sub frame or grey sub frame whereas sub frame 1 is termed a normal sub frame. In the annexed drawings such as alternate sub frames are represented as dashed rectangles e.g. and normal sub frames are represented with grey rectangles e.g. . Accordingly in the subject disclosure rendering of an image is based on insertion of an alternate sub frame instead of a black sub frame a sub frame in which backlight is turned off for the duration of the sub frame . Yet it should be appreciated that in an aspect of the subject disclosure an alternate sub frame or an alternate frame see below also can be configured to be a black sub frame. An image or data associated therewith to be rendered determines if an alternate frame or sub frame is to be configured as a black sub frame for instance if data is zero an alternate frame or sub frame can be configured to be black whereas non black or grey alternate frames or sub frames are configured and utilized when data is finite or non null. Alternate frame s also can be configured to be black frame s based at least in part on data.

In the subject disclosure for a set of Q sub frames the set of respective Q phase delays . . . are configurable and can be static e.g. fixed for a rendering session such as a video session or dynamic e.g. variable throughout a video session. In an aspect in a panel such as in diagram each string of LEDs that are part of backlight circuitry typically illuminates a zone in the panel consecutive zones of the panel can have different phase delays associated with the spatial location of the string of LEDs within the panel . Duty cycle associated with LED string PWM output setting also can be configurable adopting static value s or dynamic values s . Duty cycle of LED string PWM output setting for normal sub frame can be different from duty cycle of LED string PWM output setting for alternate sub frame. It is noted that in the subject disclosure duty cycle is defined as the duty cycle of a PWM train of pulses after a phase delay is applied in this manner in an aspect the duty cycle thus refer to duty cycle of backlight illumination. In the example depicted in diagram alternate sub frame duty cycle is 100 and so is the duty cycle of normal frame .

In one or more embodiments or scenarios a sequence of alternate sub frames can be implemented in internal mode wherein the first sub frame in a set of one or more Q sub frames is automatically configured as an alternate sub frame. For example automatic configuration of the first sub frame as an alternate sub frame can be accomplished through an alternate PWM phase signal in which first input rise e.g. voltage rise in a PWM sequence can enable configuration of the first sub frame as an alternate sub frame. In one or more scenarios an internal alternate sub frame selection or control signal can configure the first sub frame as an alternate sub frame as discussed supra such internal alternate sub frame selection or control signal can be selected by alternate signal selector and issued or generated by timing signal generator . illustrates a sequence of inserted PWM sub frames in internal mode. Raster reference signal is multiplied by a factor of 3 to lead to a multiplied raster PWM signal 3 which provides reference signal 3 for rendering content with a 3 sub frame structure . As discussed supra internal alternate sub frame selection or control signal configures the first sub frame in multiplied reference signal 3 as an alternate sub frame while second and third sub frames are normal sub frames. Similarly in a reference signal e.g. VSYNC is multiplied by a factor of 4 to lead to a multiplied raster PWM signal 4 which provides reference signal 4 for rendering content with a 4 sub frame structure . Signal is an internal alternate sub frame selection or control signal that configures automatically a sequence of alternate sub frames in LED string PWM output setting in which the first sub frame in a frame is an alternate sub frame.

In additional or alternative one or more scenarios a sequence of alternate sub frames can be implemented in external mode wherein one or more sub frames in a set of one or more Q sub frames is configured as an alternate sub frame based on an external alternate PWM phase signal. For example e.g. for ON state of the external alternate PWM phase signal enables e.g. triggers configuration of a sub sequent sub frame as an alternate sub frame. For example displays a diagram of an example sequence of inserted PWM sub frames in external mode in accordance with aspects described herein. In diagram a reference signal 3 establishes a rendering timing signal with 3 sub frame structure e.g. illustrated with contiguous arrows . External alternate sub frame selection or control signal produces a sequence of inserted alternate PWM sub frames which is not periodic and wherein alternate sub frames represented as dashed rectangles are configured when the external phase signal is ON or High value and the frame configured to alternate frame is subsequent to a normal frame. In an aspect the illustrated external alternate sub frame selection or control signal leads to multiple contiguous alternate sub frames each of such contiguous sub frames can be associated with rendering of new data in a display that exploits insertion of alternate sub frames as described herein.

It should be appreciated that insertion of alternate PWM sub frame can be adjusted for implementation in one or more scenarios in which image rendering does not rely on sub frame rendering. In such scenarios or embodiments an alternate frame can be inserted amongst a sequence of normal frames wherein as in the case of alternate sub frames an alternate frame includes a phase delay and a PWM trains of pulses with duty cycle while a normal frame includes a phase delay and an associated duty cycle . illustrates an example scenario in which rendering of image s does not rely at least in part on a sub frame structure. In diagram a raster reference PWM signal e.g. vertical synchronization VSYNC signal is multiplied by a unity multiplier which results in a raster PWM signal 1 without sub frames in view of the unity multiplier . Note that in diagram the unity multiplied raster PWM signal 1 . In addition in diagram sequence of alternate frames includes a single alternate frame which is the first frame in a scan if new content e.g. a new data is rendered. As illustrated in diagram in a similar scenario with a raster reference signal the first frame is an alternate frame represented with a PWM output setting with a phase delay and duty cycle of 50 while subsequent frames are normal frames with phase delay etc. and duty cycle of 50 as well. While as illustrated in diagram and duty cycle is 75 in one or more embodiments can be different from . Similarly can be different from . As discussed for rendering scenarios that rely on sub frames duty cycle of an alternate frame or a normal frame is configurable and so is the phase delay of an alternate frame or a normal frame. In an aspect such duty cycle or phase delay can be configured to be static or dynamic.

For example displays a diagram of an example sequence of inserted PWM frames in external mode in accordance with aspects described herein. In diagram a reference signal 1 establishes a rendering timing signal without sub frame structure. External phase signal results in a sequence of inserted PWM frames which is not periodic and wherein alternate frames represented as dashed rectangles as indicated supra are configured when the external phase signal is ON or High value and the frame configured to alternate frame is subsequent to a normal frame.

To implement the various features or aspects described supra display controller includes processor s . In addition display controller also can include input output I O component s not shown that can enable configuration of various registers and other values of display controller through exchange of data such as external signal . In an aspect processor s can be configured to provide or can provide at least in part the described functionality of display controller or one or more functional elements e.g. components therein. In an aspect to provide such functionality processor s can exploit bus to exchange data or any other information amongst functional elements components multipliers etc. within display controller and memory or elements therein such as register s . Bus can be embodied in at least one of a memory bus a system bus an address bus a message bus or any other conduit protocol or mechanism for data or information exchange among components that execute a process or are part of execution of a process. The exchanged information can include at least one of code instructions code structure s data structures or the like.

Processor s also can execute code instructions not shown stored in memory to implement or provide at least part of the described functionality of display controller . Such code instructions can include program modules or software or firmware applications that implement specific tasks which can be accomplished through one or more of the methods described in the subject specification and that are associated at least in part with functionality or operation of example display . In one or more alternative or additional embodiment s processor s can be distributed amongst one or more functional elements components multipliers counters etc. of display controller. Further in some embodiments one or more of the functional elements of display controller can be implement as software or firmware and can reside within memory as one or more sets of code instructions that when executed by processor s implement such functional elements components multipliers counters etc. and described functionality thereof.

In one or more embodiments display controller can be either a general microcomputer or a special purpose microcomputer. Display controller can be implemented on a single integrated circuit IC chip or on multiple IC chips. In addition through provision of code instructions to memory display controller can be programmable. In the alternative display controller can be non programmable and operate in accordance with aspects herein as established at manufacturing time. In view of the foregoing it is readily appreciated that the display controller can be implemented in hardware software or firmware.

As described herein at least an advantage of insertion of alternate sub frame is efficient utilization of image data in a display. At least another advantage is mitigation of image motion blur without insertion of a black sub frame. In addition as described herein at least one advantage of insertion of an alternate frame in scenarios in which no sub frame structure is implemented is the mitigation of flickering of static images rendered in an LCD display.

In view of the example system s described above example method s that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter can be better appreciated with reference to flowchart in . For purposes of simplicity of explanation example methods disclosed herein are presented and described as a series of acts however it is to be understood and appreciated that the disclosed subject matter is not limited by the order of acts as some acts may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example one or more example methods disclosed herein can alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover interaction diagram s may represent methods in accordance with the disclosed subject matter when disparate entities enact disparate portions of the methodologies. Furthermore not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a described example method in accordance with the subject specification. Further yet two or more of the disclosed example methods can be implemented in combination with each other to accomplish one or more features or advantages described herein.

Method s disclosed throughout the subject specification and annexed drawings are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such method s to computers or chipsets with processing capability ies for execution and thus implementation by a processor or for storage in a memory. In an aspect one or more processors that enact method s described herein can be employed to execute code instructions retained in a memory or any computer or machine readable medium to implement method s described herein the code instructions when executed by the one or more processor implement or carry out the various acts in the method s described herein. The code instructions provide a computer or machine executable framework to enact the method s described herein.

At act based on the selection in act a sequence of alternate PWM frame insertions based on the alternate PWM frame control signal or a sequence of alternate PWM sub frame insertions based on the alternate PWM sub frame control signal is configured. Internally or externally established alternate PWM frame or alternate PWM sub frame control signals can be utilized to configure at least one of the alternate PWM frame insertions sequence or alternate PWM sub frame insertions sequence. At act a set of phase delays and a set of duty cycles that regulate backlighting for i at least one of an alternate PWM frame insertion or an alternate PWM sub frame insertion and ii at least one of a normal PWM sub frame or a normal PWM frame are determined. At act backlighting in a display is regulated based at least in part on a the sequence of alternate PWM frame insertions or alternate PWM sub frame insertions or b the set of phase delays and the set of duty cycles.

Various aspects of the subject disclosure can be automated via at least in part artificial intelligence AI methodologies which enable inference e.g. reasoning and conclusion synthesis based upon a set of metrics arguments or known outcomes in controlled scenarios or training sets of data of various parameters e.g. phase delay s duty cycles suitable number of zones for backlight regulation or the like. Artificial intelligence methods or techniques referred to herein typically apply advanced mathematical algorithms e.g. decision trees neural networks regression analysis principal component analysis PCA for feature and pattern extraction cluster analysis genetic algorithm or reinforced learning to a data set. Such methodologies can be retained in memory . As an example Hidden Markov Models HMMs and related prototypical dependency models can be employed. General probabilistic graphical models such as Dempster Shafer networks and Bayesian networks like those created by structure search using a Bayesian model score or approximation can also be utilized. In addition linear classifiers such as support vector machines SVMs non linear classifiers like methods referred to as neural network methodologies fuzzy logic methodologies can also be employed. Moreover game theoretic models e.g. game trees game matrices pure and mixed strategies utility algorithms Nash equilibria evolutionary game theory etc. and other approaches that perform data fusion etc. can be exploited.

As used herein the term relative to means that a value A established relative to a value B signifies that A is a function of the value B. The functional relationship between A and B can be established mathematically or by reference to a theoretical or empirical relationship. As used herein coupled means directly or indirectly connected in series by wires traces or other connecting elements. Coupled elements may receive signals from each other.

In the subject specification terms such as store data store data storage and substantially any term s that convey other information storage component s relevant to operation and functionality of a functional element or component described herein refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. The memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of further illustration and not limitation RAM can be available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

The various illustrative logics logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration. Additionally at least one processor may comprise one or more modules operable to perform one or more of the steps and or actions described above.

Further the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm described in connection with the aspects disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers a hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium may be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. Further in some aspects the processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. Additionally the ASIC may reside in a user terminal In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal. Additionally in some aspects the steps and or actions of a method or algorithm may reside as one or any combination or set of codes and or instructions on a machine readable medium and or computer readable medium which may be incorporated into a computer program product.

In one or more aspects the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored or transmitted as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection may be termed a computer readable medium. For example if software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs usually reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure discusses illustrative aspects and or embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described aspects and or embodiments as defined by the appended claims. In addition although elements of the described aspects and or embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated. Moreover all or a portion of any aspect and or embodiment may be utilized with all or a portion of any other aspect and or embodiment unless stated otherwise. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has possesses and the like are used in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

