---

title: Systems and methods for providing warning of anomalous alarm clock settings
abstract: Systems and methods relate to managing an alarm clock function of a device. The systems and methods for compare a time setting of a new alarm by a user to one or more previous times settings that the alarm has been set to determine whether to warn the user about and/or require the user to confirm the time setting of the new alarm. The systems and methods can detect a user input indicating a first time setting for the alarm clock function. Further, the systems and methods can examine the one or more previous time settings associated with the alarm clock function determine, based on the one or more previous time settings, whether to query the user to confirm an activation of the alarm clock function at the first time setting.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08838412&OS=08838412&RS=08838412
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08838412
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121016
---
Mobile device users often use the alarm clock setting of their mobile devices to set alarms. For example the users can in the evening or at night set an alarm to go off for the next morning. For further example the users can set a daytime alarm to remind the user of an appointment or obligation. However in some cases the user can mistakenly set an alarm. For example the user can set an alarm for 7 30 PM when a 7 30 AM alarm is intended. In these cases the alarms will not activate at the intended time and the user may fail to wake up miss a meeting or experience other consequences.

Accordingly there is a need for to provide methods and systems for reducing occurrences of mistakenly set alarms.

Implementations of the present teachings relate to computer implemented methods of managing an alarm clock function of a device. The methods include receiving at the device an input indicating a first time associated with the alarm clock function. The methods also include determining whether the first time differs by more than a threshold amount from one or more previous times associated with the alarm clock function. Additionally the methods include outputting a notification if the first time differs by more than the threshold amount from the one or more previous times.

Implementations of the present teachings also relate to computer readable storage media storing instructions. The instructions cause one or more processor to perform methods. The methods include identifying at a device a first time associated with an alarm clock function. The methods also include determining whether the first time differs by more than a threshold amount from one or more previous times associated with the alarm clock function. The methods also include outputting a notification if the first time differs by more than the threshold amount from the one or more previous times.

Implementations of the present teachings also relate devices for managing an alarm clock function. The devices include one or more memory devices storing instructions and one or more processors coupled to the one or more memory devices. The one or more processors are configured to execute the instructions to perform methods. The methods include receiving an input indicating a first time associated with the alarm clock function. The methods also include determining whether the first time differs by more than a threshold amount from one or more previous times associated with the alarm clock function. Additionally the methods include outputting a notification if the first time differs by more than the threshold amount from the one or more previous times.

For simplicity and illustrative purposes the principles of the present teachings are described by referring mainly to examples of various implementations thereof. However one of ordinary skill in the art would readily recognize that the same principles are equally applicable to and can be implemented in all types of information and systems and that any such variations do not depart from the true spirit and scope of the present teachings. Moreover in the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying figures which illustrate specific examples of various implementations. Electrical mechanical logical and structural changes can be made to the examples of the various implementations without departing from the spirit and scope of the present teachings. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present teachings is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Implementations of the present teachings relate to systems and methods for managing an alarm clock function of a device. More particularly implementations relate to systems and methods for comparing a time setting of a new alarm by a user to one or more previous time settings that the alarm has been set to determine whether to warn the user about and or require the user to confirm the setting of the new alarm time. An alarm application and or associated logic or services of a device can detect a user input indicating a first time setting for the alarm clock function. Further the alarm application and or associated logic or services can examine the one or more previous time settings associated with the alarm clock function and determine based on the one or more previous time settings whether to query the user to confirm an activation of the alarm clock function at the first time setting.

These and other implementations described herein provide a device user with an opportunity to confirm a potentially mistakenly set alarm time. Users may therefore avoid consequences associated with a mistakenly set alarm time such as for example failing to wake up missing a meeting or appointment failing to be reminded of an occurrence and or other consequences.

As illustrated in the device can include a display . The display can be configured to display information output from the device . The display can also be configured to receive input from a user of the device . In implementations the display can be a touch screen display of any type such as for example an LED LCD CRT plasma electrostatic imaging or any other type of display that can be configured to display images and receive input by interaction with a user. Various other types of input capturing screens can be used for the display e.g. voice activated screens screens cooperating with optical sensors configured to track register movement of a user stylus pointer etc. without necessarily relying on anything touching the display . In some implementations the display can be a projection onto an external surface and the user may interact with the projected images to provide input to the device . For purposes of illustration however display will be described herein as a touch screen display but is not to be considered limiting unless otherwise expressly stated herein.

The device can also include a speaker . The speaker can be configured to emit audible sound from the device . The speaker can be any type of hardware software and combination thereof that is configured to produce sound emitted from the device . The device can also include a microphone . The microphone can be configured to capture and input sound into the device . The microphone can be any type of hardware software and combination thereof that is configured to capture and input sound into the device .

The device can also include an operating system . The operating system can be configured to provide an execution environment on the device . For example the operating system can provide an execution environment for one or more application programs that can be stored and executed on the device . The operating system can provide services to the one or more application programs to access utilize and interact with the components of the device such as the display the speaker and storage . The operating system can be any type of open source or propriety operating system. The one or more applications programs can include for example a word processing application a web browser browser implemented application messaging application electronic mail application or the like.

The device can also include one or more types of storage . The storage can be any type of storage that provides permanent storage and or temporary storage in the device . The storage can be configured to store copies of software programs such as the operating system and the one or more applications programs. The storage can also be configured to store data and information used and accessed by the operating system and the one or more applications programs. The device can also utilize remote storage via one or more networks accessible by the device . The remote storage can be any type of storage that is accessible by the device such as remote server computers cloud storage and the like. The remote storage can store any of the software programs used by the device and any of the data and information used and accessed by the operating system and the one or more applications programs.

In implementations the device can include an alarm clock application . The alarm clock application can be configured to perform the alarm clock functions as described herein. As described herein alarm clock functions refer to processes and procedures for specifying a time at which the device will provide an alarm for example an audible sound emitted from the speaker a physical indication by the device e.g. vibrating of the device and or a visual indication from the display e.g. flashing indication from the display indicating that the time has been reached. The alarm clock application can be a standalone application program that is configured to perform the alai in clock functions. Likewise the alarm clock application can be a program module that is part of another application or program such as the operating system . The alarm clock application can be implemented as software hardware or combination of both.

To allow users to utilize the alarm clock functions the alarm clock application can be configured to generate and output an interface. The interface can be any type of interface such as a graphical user interface GUI and or command line interface that allows a user to interact with the alarm clock application. For example shows a front view of the device in which an example of an interface is displayed on the display . As illustrated the interface can include various widgets text boxes and other fields that allow a user to create an alarm view existing alarms and modifying existing alarms. For instance the interface can include a widget that allows a user to create a new alarm. The interface can also include widgets that allow a user to view and modify existing alarms. As illustrated the widgets can display the current settings of the existing alarms such as date and time and whether the alarm is enabled. By selecting the widgets the user can modify the existing alarm.

Additionally for example shows a front view of the device in which an example of an interface is displayed on the display . As illustrated the interface can include various widgets text boxes and other fields for setting and initiating an alarm clock function configured to execute on the device . For instance the alarm clock application can generate and display the interface in response to a user selecting the widget or widgets in the interface . The interface can include a widget that allows the user to input a time associated with a desired alarm. Further the interface can include a widget that allows the user to specify either AM or PM when setting the alarm. The interface can include a widget that allows the user to select the day on which the alarm will be active. The interface can include other widgets that allow the user to select other parameters such as the type and volume of audible sound played when the alarm clock function is activated. In addition the interface can include a set button that allows the user to set the alarm and a cancel button that allows the user to cancel the alarm.

In implementations in addition to interfaces the alarm clock application can be controlled by other channels. For example the alarm clock application can be configured to be controlled by voice commands. As such the alarm clock application can be configured to receive sound input into the microphone and interpret the sounds in order to create an alarm view existing alarms and modifying existing alarms. Likewise the alarm clock application can be controlled by other software programs. As such the alarm clock application can be configured to receive commands via interfaces such as application programming interfaces APIs .

In implementations the alarm clock application can determine whether the user may have mistakenly set the alarm. For example the user could have mistakenly selected P.M. while intending the alarm to go off in the morning e.g. A.M. For further example the user could have mistakenly set a time that is significantly later than a time the user normally sets. Further for example the user could have set a time for a day of the week that is inconsistent with alarms that were previously set for that particular day of the week. It should be appreciated that other scenarios are envisioned. In implementations the alarm clock application as described herein can analyze or examine an alarm history associated with the device to determine whether the user may have mistakenly set the alarm. More particularly the alarm history can comprise a listing of one or more previous times that the alarm clock function has been set.

In implementations the alarm clock application can store the alarm history in any type of storage accessible by the device . For example the alarm clock application can store the alarm history in the storage . Likewise the alarm clock application can store the alarm history in remote storage such as remote server computers cloud storage and the like.

In the process can begin. In the alarm clock application can be initiated. The alarm clock application can be initiated by a user interacting with the device . For example a user of the device can initiate the alarm clock application from a home screen of the device via a keystroke sequence or via other channels.

In the alarm clock application can generate and output an interface that allows a user to set an alarm. The alarm clock application can generate an interface that allows the user to create a new alarm or modify an existing alarm and pass the interface to the display for viewing by the user. For instance the alarm clock application can generate an interface and or as described above.

In the alarm clock application can receive input that indicates the parameters of the current alarm to be set. The parameters received can include a time and date for the current alarm and other parameters such as type and volume of an audible sound to be emitted upon the occurrence of the alarm. The alarm clock application can receive the input from the user via the interfaces displayed on the display .

In the alarm clock application can determine whether the alarm parameters for the current alarm are unusual compared to previously set alarms. The alarm clock application can access an alarm history and retrieve the parameters of previously set alarms such as time and date. The alarm clock application can compare the parameters of the current alarm to the previously set alarms and utilize various mathematical and statistical methods to determine whether the current alarm is unusual compared to the previously set alarms from the alarm history. C and D illustrate three examples of processes that the alarm clock application can utilize to determine if the alarm is unusual. In implementations the alarm clock application can utilize the example processes separately to determine if the alarm is unusual. Likewise the alarm clock application can utilize the example processes in combination to determine if the alarm is unusual.

In the alarm clock application can determine a mean and a standard deviation of the number of minutes past midnight for each previously set alarm in the alarm history. The alarm clock application can utilize the following equation to calculate the mean 

For example the mean is 457 minutes and the standard deviation is 20.3 for the alarm history . It should be appreciated that other techniques for calculating a mean and standard deviation of the previously set alarms in the alarm history are envisioned. For example instead of calculating the mean and standard deviation from the number of minutes past midnight the mean and standard deviation can be calculated from a number of minutes from noon or from other benchmarks.

In the alarm clock application can calculate the number of standard deviations the current alarm is from the mean of the previously set alarms. For example using the alarm history if an 8 00 AM alarm is attempted to be set by the user the alarm clock application can determine that the alarm is 1.13 standard deviations away from the mean. If a 9 00 AM alarm is attempted to be set by the user the alarm clock application can determine that the alarm is 4.01 standard deviations away from the mean. If a 7 00 PM alarm is attempted to be set by the user the alarm clock application can determine that the alarm is 33.6 standard deviations away from the mean.

In the alarm clock application can compare the calculated standard deviations to threshold values to determine if the alarm attempted to be set can be construed as usual unusual very unusual or other classification conventions. It should be appreciated that any threshold values as well as classification conventions can be incorporated in the systems and methods as described herein. For example a usual alarm can be considered an alarm that is between 0 and 2 standard deviations away from the mean an unusual alarm can be considered an alarm that is between 2 and 5 standard deviations away from the mean and a very unusual alarm can be considered an alarm that is over 5 standard deviations away from the mean.

For instance referring to the above examples if the alarm is 1.13 standard deviations away from the mean the alarm clock application can determine that the alarm is a usual alarm. If the alarm is 4.01 standard deviations away from the mean the alarm clock application can determine that the alarm is an unusual alarm. If the alarm is 33.6 standard deviations away from the mean the alarm clock application can determine that the alarm a very unusual alarm. If the alarm clock application determines that the alarm is usual the alarm clock application can proceed to . If the alarm clock application determines that the alarm is unusual the alarm clock application can proceed to .

In the alarm clock application can calculate a mean and a standard deviation of the difference in minutes. The alarm clock application can calculate the mean and standard deviation utilizing the equations described above. For example referring to the difference in minutes from the alarm history in the mean is 449 minutes and the standard deviation is 133.6.

In the alarm clock application can calculate the number of standard deviations the difference in minutes for the current alarm is from the mean of the previously set alai ins. For example referring to alarm history if the user is proposing at 11 20 PM to set an alarm for 7 15 AM 475 minutes then the alarm clock application can calculate that 475 is 0.23 standard deviations away from the mean. Further for example if the current alarm is 300 minutes after the current alarm is set then the alarm clock application can calculate that 300 is 1.31 standard deviations away from the mean. If the current alarm is 1200 minutes after the current alarm is set then the alarm clock application can calculate that 1200 is 5.62 standard deviations away from the mean.

In the alarm clock application can compare the standard deviations for the current alarm to threshold values to determine if the proposed alarms can be construed as usual unusual very unusual or other classification conventions. For example a usual alarm can be considered an alarm that is between 0 and 1 standard deviations away from the mean an unusual alarm can be considered an alarm that is between 1 and 3 standard deviations away from the mean and a very unusual alarm can be considered an alarm that is over 3 standard deviations away from the mean.

For example referring to above examples if the current alarm is 0.23 standard deviations away from the mean the alarm clock application can determine a usual alarm. If the current alarm is 1.31 standard deviations away from the mean the alarm clock application can determine an unusual alarm. If the current alarm is 5.62 standard deviations away from the mean the alarm clock application can determine a very unusual alarm. If the alarm clock application determines that the alarm is usual the alarm clock application can proceed to . If the alarm clock application determines that the alarm is unusual the alarm clock application can proceed to .

In the alarm clock application can determine the frequency of previously set alarms in the interval corresponding to the current alarm. For example if the user attempts to set an alarm for 7 30 PM Interval 4 then the alarm clock application can examine the alarm history and can determine that only 20 of previously set alarms have been set in Interval 4.

In the alarm clock application can determine if the frequency is less than a threshold value. For example if the current alarm is 7 30 PM the alarm clock application can determine the frequency is 20 which is less than a threshold value for a usual alarm. For further example if the user attempts to set an alarm for 7 30 AM Interval 2 then the application or logic can determine that 65 of previously set alarms have been set in Interval 2 can determine that 65 meets or exceeds a threshold value for a usual alarm. If the alarm clock application determines that the alarm is usual the alarm clock application can proceed to . If the alarm clock application determines that the alarm is unusual the alarm clock application can proceed to .

In some implementations the alarm clock application can determine alarms that are usual or unusual based on the day of the week on which previous alarms have been set or not set. More particularly an alarm history of the alarm clock function can be examined to determine the day of the week e.g. Monday Tuesday etc. on which the alarms of the alarm history were set. Similar to the functionality as discussed with respect to the alarm clock application can determine frequencies associated with the ala is. For example the alarm history can indicate that alarms have been set on 95 of the previous n Mondays 98 of the previous n Tuesdays 15 of the previous n Sundays and so on. If on a Saturday night there is an alarm set for Sunday morning and the Sunday morning alarm frequency is 5 and the threshold is under 10 then the alarm clock application can notify the user that there is a currently set Sunday alarm and can prompt the user to confirm the alarm.

In if the alarm clock application determines that the current alarm is unusual the alarm clock application can notify the user that the current alarm is unusual. The alarm clock application can provide any type of notification that informs the user that the current alarm is unusual. For example the alarm clock application can provide a visual notification on the display and or an audible notification emitted from the speaker .

The particular type of notification can depend on the degree of unusualness based on the threshold. More particularly interface can display LATE or other indications that can inform the user of the potential unusualness of the alarm that is attempting to be set. The determination of the degree to which the attempted alarm is usual unusual can be made upon the user entering the time of the alarm upon the user setting the alarm and or at other times or stages. For example if the current alarm is determined to be unusual the alarm clock application can provide the text notification in the interface as illustrated in . If the current alarm is determined to be very unusual the alarm clock application can provide text box which requires the user to confirm or decline the much later or much earlier alarm.

In the alarm clock application can receive a confirmation from the user that the alarm is correct. The confirmation can be received via any of the interfaces provided by the alarm clock application . If the user confirms the current alarm the alarm clock application proceeds to . If the user declines the current alarm the alarm clock application proceeds to .

In the alarm clock application can set the current alarm and store the parameters of the current alarm in the alarm history. In the process can end return to any point or repeat.

In the processes described above the alarm clock application can notify a user attempting to set a current alarm that the alarm is unusual. Likewise using similar processes described above the alarm clock application can utilize the alarm history to notify a user if an alarm that is usual set at a time and date is not current set. The alarm clock application can examine the alarm history and determine the date and times alarms are typically set and notify a user if the alarm is not current set. For example the alarm clock application can examine the weekday alarm frequencies to determine whether to notify the user about unset alarm. More particularly the alarm clock application can compare the frequencies to established thresholds to determine whether to provide the notification. For example if on a Monday night there is no currently set alarm for Tuesday morning when the Tuesday morning alarm frequency is 95 and the threshold is 90 the alarm clock application can notify the user that there is no Tuesday alarm currently set and can prompt the user to set a Tuesday alarm. It should be appreciated that alternative anomalous alarm clock notifications are envisioned.

In the examples of the processes described above the alarm clock application can be initiated and controlled using an interface displayed on the display . In other examples of the processes described above the alarm clock application can be initiated and controlled using other channels. For example the alarm clock application can be configured to be controlled by voice commands. As such the alarm clock application can be configured to receive sound input into the microphone and interpret the sounds in order to create an alarm view existing alarms and modifying existing alarms. Likewise the alarm clock application can be controlled by other software programs. As such the alarm clock application can be configured to receive commands via interfaces such APIs.

In the examples of the processes described above the alarm clock application can provide a notification that includes text indicating that an alarm may be anomalous. In other examples of the processes described above the alarm clock application can utilize any type of notification indicating that an alarm may be anomalous. For example the alarm clock application can provide other visual indications such as a flashing indication on the display . Additionally for example the alarm clock application can generate and emit from the speaker an audible notification that the alarm may be anomalous. Also for example the alarm clock application can provide a physical notification such as vibration in the device . Any of the notification described above can be used in combination or separately.

As illustrated in the device can include one or more processors of varying core configurations and clock frequencies. The device can also include one or more memory devices that serve as a main memory during the operation of the computing device . The device can also include one or more peripheral interfaces such as keyboards mice touchpads computer screens touchscreens etc. for enabling human interaction with and manipulation of the device .

The device can also include one or more network interfaces for communicating via one or more networks such as Ethernet adapters wireless transceivers or serial network components for communicating over wired or wireless media using protocols such as Ethernet wireless Ethernet Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE etc. The device can also include one or more storage device of varying physical dimensions and storage capacities such as flash drives hard drives random access memory etc. for storing data such as images files and program instructions for execution by the one or more processors .

Additionally the device can include one or more software programs such as the operating system and the alarm clock application . The one or more software programs can include instructions that cause the one or more processors to perform the processes described. The one or more software programs can be stored in the one or more memory devices and or on in the one or more storage devices which correspond to the storage described above.

In implementations the components of the device need not be enclosed within a single enclosure or even located in close proximity to one another. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the above described componentry are examples only as the device can include any type of hardware componentry including any necessary accompanying firmware or software for performing the disclosed implementations. The device can also be implemented in part or in whole by electronic circuit components or processors such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs .

In situations in which the systems and methods discussed here store or share data of the user s computing device the data can be treated in one or more ways before it is stored or used so that personally identifiable information is removed. For example a user s identify can be treated so that no personally identifiable information can be determined for the user or a user s geographic location can be generalized where location information is shared so that a particular location of a user cannot be determined. Thus the user can have control over how data about the user is collected stored or shared.

Certain implementations described above can be performed as a computer applications or programs. The computer program can exist in a variety of forms both active and inactive. For example the computer program can exist as one or more software programs software modules or both that can be comprised of program instructions in source code object code executable code or other formats firmware program s or hardware description language HDL files. Any of the above can be embodied on a computer readable medium which include computer readable storage devices and media and signals in compressed or uncompressed form. Examples of computer readable storage devices and media include conventional computer system RAM random access memory ROM read only memory EPROM erasable programmable ROM EEPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM and magnetic or optical disks or tapes. Examples of computer readable signals whether modulated using a carrier or not are signals that a computer system hosting or running the present teachings can be configured to access including signals downloaded through the Internet or other networks. Concrete examples of the foregoing include distribution of executable software program s of the computer program on a CD ROM or via Internet download. In a sense the Internet itself as an abstract entity is a computer readable medium. The same is true of computer networks in general.

While the teachings have been described with reference to examples of the implementations thereof those skilled in the art will be able to make various modifications to the described implementations without departing from the true spirit and scope. The terms and descriptions used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. In particular although the method has been described by examples the steps of the method may be performed in a different order than illustrated or simultaneously. Furthermore to the extent that the terms including includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description and the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. As used herein the terms one or more of and at least one of with respect to a listing of items such as for example A and B means A alone B alone or A and B. Further unless specified otherwise the term set should be interpreted as one or more. Those skilled in the art will recognize that these and other variations are possible within the spirit and scope as defined in the following claims and their equivalents.

