---

title: Transformation of industrial data into useful cloud information
abstract: A cloud-compatible industrial device is provided. The industrial device generates or collects raw industrial data in connection with monitoring and/or controlling an automation system, and includes a cloud interface that couples the industrial device to one or more cloud-based services running on a cloud platform. To reduce consumption of cloud-based resources such as bandwidth and storage utilization, the industrial device can transform the raw industrial data into refined data that is amenable for cloud-based storage, computing, or analysis. Exemplary transformations include filtering, pruning, re-formatting, compressing, summarizing. In one or more embodiments, the industrial device can also add contextual metadata to the raw data prior to delivery to the cloud.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09565275&OS=09565275&RS=09565275
owner: ROCKWELL AUTOMATION TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
number: 09565275
owner_city: Mayfield Heights
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120910
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 587 531 filed on Feb. 9 2012 and entitled INDUSTRIAL AUTOMATION CLOUD COMPUTING SYSTEMS AND METHODS. This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 162 315 filed on Jun. 4 2002 which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 151 966 on Dec. 19 2006 and entitled SYSTEM AND METHODOLOGY PROVIDING OPEN INTERFACE AND DISTRIBUTED PROCESSING IN AN INDUSTRIAL CONTROLLER ENVIRONMENT. The entireties of these applications are incorporated herein by reference.

The subject application relates generally to industrial automation and more particularly to transformation of industrial data into refined data amenable for cloud based storage computing or analysis.

Industrial controllers and their associated I O devices are central to the operation of modem automation systems. These controllers interact with field devices on the plant floor to control automated processes relating to such objectives as product manufacture material handling batch processing supervisory control and other such applications. Industrial controllers store and execute user defined control programs to effect decision making in connection with the controlled process. Such programs can include but are not limited to ladder logic sequential function charts function block diagrams structured text or other such programming structures.

Unlike general purpose computing devices industrial automation devices often generate vast amounts of real time data. This is due in part to the large number of system variables that must be monitored and controlled in real time for a given automation system. In addition to production statistics data relating to machine health alarm statuses operator feedback e.g. manually entered reason codes associated with a downtime condition electrical or mechanical load over time and the like must be monitored and in some cases recorded on a continuous basis. This data is generated by the many industrial devices that can make up a given automation system including the industrial controller and its associated I O telemetry devices for real time metering motion control devices e.g. drives for controlling the motors that make up a motion system visualization applications lot traceability systems e.g. barcode tracking etc. Moreover since many industrial facilities operate on a 24 hour basis their associated automation systems can generate a vast amount of potentially useful data at high rates. For an enterprise with multiple plant facilities for which data is to be collated the amount of generated automation data increases even more.

The large quantity of data continuously generated by today s industrial automation systems may render cloud based storage and analysis of this data cost prohibitive due to bandwidth storage and processing constraints.

The above described deficiencies of today s industrial control and business systems are merely intended to provide an overview of some of the problems of conventional systems and are not intended to be exhaustive. Other problems with conventional systems and corresponding benefits of the various non limiting embodiments described herein may become further apparent upon review of the following description.

The following presents a simplified summary in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects described herein. This summary is not an extensive overview nor is intended to identify key critical elements or to delineate the scope of the various aspects described herein. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

One or more embodiments of the present disclosure relate to cloud compatible industrial devices that can transform their stored or generated data into refined data that is amenable for cloud based storage computing analysis or other cloud based services. To this end an industrial device e.g. industrial controller sensor meter drive or the like can include an interface for coupling the device to a web based cloud allowing the device to exchange data with cloud based applications such as data processing tools storage Services remote visualization applications or other cloud based services. The industrial device can also include a transformation component configured to transform data collected by and or stored on the industrial device into a refined set of data that can be pushed to the cloud for storage analysis etc. while circumventing inherent bandwidth cost storage or processing constraints. Using the transformation component the industrial device can filter prune re format combine summarize or compress its data prior to moving the data to the cloud. In some embodiments the industrial device can select a particular transformation based on a determined need or limitation of the cloud or cloud based application that will consume the data. The industrial device can also receive a request from a cloud based application for a subset of data to be delivered in a specified format and transform the requested data to the specified format before sending the data to the cloud.

One or more embodiments can also contextualize data within the industrial devices prior to pushing the data to the cloud. This can include tagging the data with contextual metadata such as a time a quality indicator a production area a machine or process state personnel identifications or other information that provides additional context for the data. This appended contextual data can be leveraged by cloud based analysis tools or can be used internally by the industrial device s transformation component in connection with aggregating filtering or summarizing the data for cloud based storage or analysis.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends certain illustrative aspects are described herein in connection with the following description and the annexed drawings. These aspects are indicative of various ways which can be practiced all of which are intended to be covered herein. Other advantages and novel features may become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The subject disclosure is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding thereof. It may be evident however that the subject disclosure can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate a description thereof.

As used in this application the terms component system platform layer controller terminal station node interface are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to or that is part of an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein such entities can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor a hard disk drive multiple storage drives of optical or magnetic storage medium including affixed e.g. screwed or bolted or removably affixed solid state storage drives an object an executable a thread of execution a computer executable program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also components as described herein can execute from various computer readable storage media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or a firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that provides at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components. While the foregoing examples are directed to aspects of a component the exemplified aspects or features also apply to a system platform interface layer controller terminal and the like.

As used herein the terms to infer and inference refer generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or user from a set of observations as captured via events and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

Furthermore the term set as employed herein excludes the empty set e.g. the set with no elements therein. Thus a set in the subject disclosure includes one or more elements or entities. As an illustration a set of controllers includes one or more controllers a set of data resources includes one or more data resources etc. Likewise the term group as utilized herein refers to a collection of one or more entities e.g. a group of nodes refers to one or more nodes.

Various aspects or features will be presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. It is to be understood and appreciated that the various systems may include additional devices components modules etc. and or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the figures. A combination of these approaches also can be used.

Exemplary automation systems can include one or more industrial controllers that facilitate monitoring and control of their respective processes. The controllers exchange data with the field devices using native hardwired I O or via a plant network such as Ethernet IP Data Highway Plus ControlNet Devicenet or the like. A given controller typically receives any combination of digital or analog signals from the field devices indicating a current state of the devices and their associated processes e.g. temperature position part presence or absence fluid level etc. and executes a user defined control program that performs automated decision making for the controlled processes based on the received signals. The controller then outputs appropriate digital and or analog control signaling to the field devices in accordance with the decisions made by the control program. These outputs can include device actuation signals temperature or position control signals operational commands to a machining or material handling robot mixer control signals motion control signals and the like. The control program can comprise any suitable type of code used to process input signals read into the controller and to control output signals generated by the controller including but not limited to ladder logic sequential function charts function block diagrams structured text or other such platforms.

Although the exemplary overview illustrated in depicts the industrial devices and as residing in stationary industrial facilities the industrial devices may also be part of a mobile control application such as a system contained in a truck or other service vehicle.

According to one or more embodiments of this disclosure industrial devices and can be coupled to a cloud platform to leverage cloud based applications. That is the industrial device and can be configured to discover and interact with cloud based computing services hosted by cloud platform . Cloud platform can be any infrastructure that allows shared computing services to be accessed and utilized by cloud capable devices. Cloud platform can be a public cloud accessible via the Internet by devices having Internet connectivity and appropriate authorizations to utilize the services. Alternatively cloud can be a private cloud operated internally by the enterprise. An exemplary private cloud can comprise a set of servers hosting the cloud services and residing on a corporate network protected by a firewall.

Cloud services can include but are not limited to data storage data analysis control applications e.g. applications that can generate and deliver control instructions to industrial devices and based on analysis of real time system data or other factors visualization applications such as cloud based HMIs reporting applications Enterprise Resource Planning ERP applications notification services or other such applications. If cloud platform is a web based cloud industrial devices and at the respective industrial facilities may interact with cloud services via the Internet. In an exemplary configuration industrial devices and may access the cloud services through separate cloud gateways at the respective industrial facilities where the industrial devices and connect to the cloud gateways through a physical or wireless local area network or radio link. In another exemplary configuration the industrial devices may access the cloud platform directly using an integrated cloud interface.

Providing industrial devices with cloud capability can offer a number of advantages particular to industrial automation. For one cloud based storage offered by the cloud platform can be easily scaled to accommodate the large quantities of data generated daily by an industrial enterprise. Moreover multiple industrial facilities at different geographical locations can migrate their respective automation data to the cloud for aggregation collation collective analysis and enterprise level reporting without the need to establish a private network between the facilities. Industrial devices and having smart configuration capability can be configured to automatically detect and communicate with the cloud platform upon installation at any facility simplifying integration with existing cloud based data storage analysis or reporting applications used by the enterprise. In another exemplary application cloud based diagnostic applications can monitor the health of respective automation systems or their associated industrial devices across an entire plant or across multiple industrial facilities that make up an enterprise. Cloud based lot control applications can be used to track a unit of product through its stages of production and collect production data for each unit as it passes through each stage e.g. barcode identifier production statistics for each stage of production quality test data abnormal flags etc. . These industrial cloud computing applications are only intended to be exemplary and the systems and methods described herein are not limited to these particular applications. The cloud platform can allow software vendors to provide software as a service removing the burden of software maintenance upgrading and backup from their customers.

While there are considerable advantages to be gained by leveraging cloud computing in an industrial environment there are a number of inherent constraints that may impact the ability of an industrial enterprise to take full advantage of the cloud. For example bandwidth or the rate at which data can be transferred between the device and the cloud is a common performance bottleneck associated with cloud computing. Given the large amount of data generated by an industrial enterprise on a continuous basis the cloud platform provider s maximum bandwidth may limit the speed of data exchange between an automation system and the cloud resulting in performance delays or rendering some applications impractical. Moreover the cost of cloud computing to an end user is often a function of the amount of data storage or processing load required. Consequently the volume of data generated by an industrial enterprise can render cloud based storage and analysis cost prohibitive.

To mitigate these constraints one or more embodiments of the present disclosure incorporates a cloud data refinement system in an industrial device that can transform data collected or generated by the device into refined data that is better suited to cloud based storage computing or analysis. is a block diagram of an exemplary cloud data refinement system that can be used to transform industrial data to refined data amenable to cloud computing. Aspects of the systems apparatuses or processes explained in this disclosure can constitute machine executable components embodied within machine s e.g. embodied in one or more computer readable mediums or media associated with one or more machines. Such components when executed by one or more machines e.g. computer s computing device s automation device s virtual machine s etc. can cause the machine s to perform the operations described.

Cloud data refinement system can include a transformation component having a requirements component and a refinement component a user interface component a cloud interface component one or more processors and memory . In various embodiments one or more of the transformation component requirements component refinement component user interface component cloud interface component the one or more processors and memory can be electrically and or communicatively coupled to one another to perform one or more of the functions of the cloud data refinement system . In some embodiments components and can comprise software instructions stored on memory and executed by processor s . The cloud data refinement system may also interact with other hardware and or software components not depicted in . For example processor s may interact with one or more external user interface devices such as a keyboard a mouse a display monitor a touchscreen or other such interface devices.

User interface component can be configured to receive user input and to render output to the user in any suitable format e.g. visual audio tactile etc. . User input can be for example defined criteria for transforming raw industrial data into refined data for migration to the cloud. As used in this disclosure the term raw data is intended to refer to any industrial data that has not been transformed by transformation component . This can include but is not limited to data that has been collected generated and or processed by an industrial device e.g. a programmable logic controller automation controller human machine interface network infrastructure device enterprise resource planning system etc. data stored on an industrial device or data historian data generated by field devices e.g. sensors meters etc. or other such data.

Transform component can be configured to transform raw industrial data in accordance with defined transform profiles associated with an industrial device which can be configured using input received via the user interface component in some embodiments. To this end a requirements component can determine one or more requirements for migration of data to the cloud e.g. a bandwidth or storage limitation a cost limitation contextual requirements a user preference specified in a transform profile etc. and refinement component can transform the data in accordance with the determined requirement. Cloud interface component can be configured to couple an industrial device to a web based or private cloud. In one or more embodiments the cloud interface component can be configured to automatically provide identification and context information relating to its associated industrial device upon connection to the cloud. This information may be used by some cloud based applications to facilitate integrating the industrial device and its associated data with the larger plant level or enterprise level system. The one or more processors can perform one or more of the functions described herein with reference to the systems and or methods disclosed. Memory can be a computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions and or information for performing the functions described herein with reference to the systems and or methods disclosed.

Industrial controller can exchange data with the controlled processes through I O which can comprise one or more local or remote input and or output modules that communicate with one or more field devices to effect control of the controlled processes . The input and or output modules can include digital modules that send and receive discrete voltage signals to and from the field devices or analog modules that transmit and receive analog voltage or current signals to and from the devices. The input and or output modules can communicate with the controller processor over a backplane or network such that the digital and analog signals are read into and controlled by the control program . Industrial controller can also communicate with field devices over a network using for example a communication module or an integrated networking port. Exemplary networks over which controller can communicate with field devices can include the Internet Intranets Ethernet Ethernet IP DeviceNet ControlNet Data Highway and Data Highway Plus DH DH Remote I O Fieldbus Modbus Profibus wireless networks serial protocols and the like. It is to be appreciated that industrial controller is not limited to the above specifications and can be any suitable controller used to control an industrial process.

During operation industrial controller generates or collects real time data relating to controlled processes such as part counts temperatures motor speeds or loads vibration data weights quality test results alarms machine states operator feedback or other such information. Some of this data is read by the industrial controller directly from field devices e.g. telemetry devices associated with the processes themselves while some data can be generated by control program based on measured process values. The data collected or generated by industrial controller data raw data can be stored in non volatile memory associated with the industrial controller or may only exist on a transient basis e.g. real time machine state data that only exists within the controller as long as the machine remains in the indicated state but is not stored in non volatile memory .

Industrial controller is configured to be cloud capable allowing it to connect to a web based or private cloud platform and utilize cloud based services hosted thereon e.g. data storage analysis processing etc. . To this end industrial controller can include a cloud interface component that couples the industrial controller to the cloud. Cloud interface component can be configured to access the cloud through any suitable hardwired or wireless connection to the Internet e.g. through a network connection to an Internet server or through cloud gateway of . In one or more embodiments cloud interface component can execute an auto configuration routine that facilitates connection of industrial controller to the cloud. In accordance with this auto configuration routine the cloud interface component can provide information to the cloud services about the industrial controller and its context within the overall enterprise or plant hierarchy. For example when the industrial controller initially interfaces with the cloud during deployment the cloud interface component can provide such information as a device identifier for the controller a geographic location of the controller a location of the controller relative to the greater automation system plant or hierarchy to which the controller belongs indications of other devices or systems in proximity to the controller e.g. devices communicatively coupled to the controller diagnostic information for the controller or other such information that can be used by the cloud services to facilitate integration of the controller within the plant wide or enterprise wide system. Once configured the cloud interface component can push controller data to the cloud and receive data from the cloud services.

The vast amounts of real time production data often generated by modern industrial facilities which can operate multiple automation systems having many industrial controllers can drive up the cost of cloud based storage or processing applications or even render some cloud based industrial applications unfeasible. To overcome or mitigate these constraints industrial controller can include a transformation component configured to transform raw data generated or collected by the industrial controller into refined data that consumes fewer cloud resources thereby reducing costs and latency associated with such cloud based applications. In accordance with determined requirements of the cloud applications being utilized the transformation component can filter prune re format aggregate summarize or compress the raw data to yield refined data . In one or more embodiments the transformation component can modify the raw data based on an explicit or inferred requirement of the cloud application user defined transform profiles instructing how various categories of raw data are to be transformed prior to being pushed to the cloud and or contextual metadata that provides context for the raw data. Once the raw data has been modified by the transformation component the cloud interface component can push the refined data to the cloud for storage or for processing by one or more cloud based applications.

Although illustrates certain aspects of the present disclosure in connection with an industrial controller it is to be appreciated that the transformation component and cloud interface component can be implemented on any suitable industrial device that generates or collects data in connection with monitoring or controlling an industrial process. For example a variable frequency drive VFD used in a motor control application can be provided with cloud interface capabilities so that motion control data e.g. motor speeds electrical draw motor positions overload conditions etc. can be pushed to the cloud for storage or analysis. Accordingly such VFDs can include a transformation component that massages and or contextualizes the data prior to uploading the data to the cloud. Similarly telemetry devices e.g. flow meters weigh scales voltage meters pressure meters sensors etc. can be configured to refine their respective metered data for upload to the cloud. Moreover in some embodiments an industrial device can be configured to serve as a proxy for other industrial devices wherein the proxy device receives raw data from other devices comprising an automation system aggregates filters or summarizes the collected data and uploads the results to the cloud. In this way redundant data collected by multiple devices can be identified and streamlined by the proxy device prior to pushing the data to the cloud reducing bandwidth and storage consumption. These and other exemplary embodiments will be described in more detail below.

Accordingly transformation component can include a refining component that performs the desired transformation on raw data in accordance with one or more requirements of the cloud based application. The transformation component can include a requirements component that determines or infers the transformation requirements based on user defined transformation instructions requirements specified by the cloud based application and or an inferred requirement or limitation of the cloud. Exemplary transformation requirements can include a required data format or size a bandwidth limit e.g. a not to exceed bandwidth value a storage limit a summarization format a required update frequency a metadata requirement e.g. contextual data that must be added to the data before uploading a security requirement or other such criteria. Once the requirements component has determined the user defined or cloud side requirements the requirements component can instruct the refining component to transform the raw data in a manner that satisfies the requirements.

In one or more embodiments user defined transformation requirements can be stored as one or more transform profiles which encode sets of transformation requirements that can be read by requirements component . A designer can configure the transform profiles via user interface component similar to user interface component of . Through user interface a user can specify data filtering criteria data aggregation criteria a limit on cloud bandwidth a cost limit e.g. a daily weekly or monthly not to exceed cost associated with cloud bandwidth storage or processing usage a storage limit a data upload frequency or other such transformation considerations. Transform profiles can also specify category specific data transformations to be applied to respective categories of industrial data as will be explained in more detail below.

Refining component can be configured to select one or more suitable transformations to be applied to the raw data from a plurality of transformation types. To this end transformation component can include one or more of a compression component an aggregation component an encryption component a filter component a formatting component or a context component . Compression component can compress the raw data using any suitable data compression algorithm. This can include detection and deletion of redundant data bits truncation of precision bits or other suitable compression operations. Aggregation component can combine related data from multiple sources. For example data from multiple sensors measuring related aspects of an automation system can be identified and aggregated into a single cloud upload packet by aggregation component . Encryption component can encrypt sensitive data prior to upload to the cloud. Filter component can filter the raw data according to any specified filtering criterion defined in the transform profiles . For example a transform profile can indicate that pressure values exceeding a defined setpoint are to be filtered out prior to uploading the pressure values to the cloud.

Formatting component can transform any specified subset of the raw data from a first format to a second format in accordance with a requirement of the cloud based application. For example a cloud based reporting application may require measured values in ASCII format. Accordingly refining component can leverage formatting component to convert a selected subset of the raw data from floating point format to ASCII prior to pushing the data to the cloud based reporting application. Converting the raw data at the industrial device before uploading to the cloud rather than requiring this transformation to be performed on the cloud can reduce the amount of processing load on the cloud side. Context component can append contextual metadata to the raw data thereby providing the cloud based services with useful context information for the industrial data. Context metadata can include but is not limited to a time date stamp a quality value a location associated with the data e.g. a geographical location a production area etc. machine statuses at the time the data was generated or other such contextual information.

Refining component can select one or more of the components in connection with transforming raw data into refined data based on determined requirements of the cloud based services and or user defined instructions as determined by requirements component . It is to be appreciated that transformation component is not limited to the transformation operations described above in connection with components and that any suitable data transformation is within the scope of certain embodiments of this disclosure.

An exemplary non limiting transform profile is illustrated in . Transform profile can include one or both of cloud requirements or data specific transformations . Cloud requirements define data requirements or constraints inherent to the cloud platform or cloud based application with which the industrial device will interact. These can include defined or inferred limits on bandwidth storage cost or other factors. The cloud requirements can be configured manually specified by the cloud or cloud based application or inferred by the cloud data refinement system. In certain embodiments the transformation component can determine an appropriate data transformation strategy based on the cloud requirements . For example based on a determined volume of data required by the cloud service and the specified bandwidth or storage limits the transformation component can select an appropriate compression filtering summarization or aggregation strategy that allows the required data to be sent to the cloud without violating the defined constraints.

The cost limit defined in cloud requirements can be used to ensure that the cloud bandwidth and or storage being utilized by the industrial device does not exceed a specified cost. For example if a cost associated with different levels of cloud bandwidth or storage utilization is known the cost limit can be compared with an actual or expected amount of cloud resource usage by the industrial device. The expected usage can be determined based on a current or historical rate at which data is being pushed to the cloud. The transformation component can in some embodiments calculate an expected cost associated with the present rate of resource consumption compare this expected cost with the cost limit defined in cloud requirements and adjust the data transformation strategy based on whether the cost limit is expected to be exceeded.

Transform profile can also define one or more data specific transformations . That is the transform profile can allow separate transformation strategies to be associated with different categories of data. The exemplary data specific transformations comprise a set of user defined data categories and their respective transformation strategies . In the illustrated example alarm messages are configured to be encrypted and compressed prior to being uploaded to the cloud. Part count data for production lines 6 9 are to be aggregated into a group entitled Group 1 a lot number is to be appended to the part count data and the data is to be compressed. Leak test pressure data is to be filtered according to defined filtering criteria the unnecessary precision bits of the pressure values are to be truncated and a lot number is to be applied. Robot diagnostic data is to be transformed by appending a date time stamp and a machine mode at the time the diagnostic data was generated. Motor current data is to be truncated and compressed before being pushed to the cloud. By allowing separate transformation strategies to be defined according to data type the transform profile can allow industrial data to be massaged and customized for cloud computing applications with a considerable degree of flexibility.

In the present example automation data generated or collected by the Industrial device is stored locally in a data storage area . Industrial device can push data to and receive data from the cloud platform via cloud interface component similar to cloud interface components and . A cloud based application can be configured to request and receive data from industrial device for storage processing and or analysis. In some scenarios cloud based application can be a cloud based software or storage service made available to an owner of industrial device by a service provider. For example cloud based application may be a virtual machine residing on the cloud platform designed to collect production data from the industrial device and perform analytics on the data. Depending on the application the cloud based application can use the results of such analysis to generate reports providing supplemental control data to the industrial device visualization the production data on other cloud capable devices thereby serving as a cloud based HMI or perform other suitable tasks. In general cloud based application can take the place of local applications that are typically executed on the plant floor or office level of an industrial enterprise and maintained by plant personnel. Providing such applications as a cloud based service can shift the burden of maintaining these applications e.g. performing data backups maintaining backup executables version control etc. from the plant personnel to the software service provider providing value to the end user.

As in previous examples transformation component can include a refining component configured to apply a suitable transformation to raw industrial data to yield refined data . As in the example depicted in the refining component selects a suitable transformation based on requirements determined by requirements component . In the example depicted in requirements component receives an indication of the cloud side requirements from the cloud itself via cloud interface component . For example cloud based application may issue a data request requesting a subset of the stored automation data from the industrial device . This cloud side data request can include an indication of a particular data format required by the cloud based application . In some cases the cloud based application may require data to be of a particular type e.g. ASCII floating point real etc. . In other examples the cloud based application may request that the data be encrypted prior to being sent to the cloud may request that the data be enhanced with specific contextual information e.g. a time stamp a production line from which the data originated a machine status or alarm condition in effect at the time the data was generated etc. for use by the cloud based application . The requirements component can receive such requirements from the cloud based application via the cloud interface component and instruct the refining component to transform the requested raw data accordingly. The cloud interface component can then send the resulting refined data to the cloud based application in response to the initial request.

In the configuration depicted in industrial device acts as a proxy for industrial devices whereby raw data from devices is sent to the cloud via proxy industrial device . Industrial devices can deliver their raw data to proxy industrial device over plant network or backplane e.g. a Common Industrial Protocol CIP network or other suitable network protocol . Using such a configuration it is only necessary to interface one industrial device to the cloud via cloud interface component . Accordingly proxy industrial device can include a transformation component for applying suitable transformations to the collective raw data collected from industrial devices as well as its own control data. The transformed data can then be pushed to the cloud as refined data via cloud interface component .

Since data is being gathered from multiple industrial devices according to this configuration there is a possibility that redundant data may be provided to industrial device from more than one source. Accordingly transformation component may be configured to filter such redundant data e.g. using filter component depicted in prior to delivering the refined data to the cloud based application. Transformation component may also be configured to summarize the gathered data according to defined summarization criteria prior to delivery to the cloud.

While the proxy device illustrated in is depicted as an industrial device that itself performs monitoring and or control of a portion of controlled process es other types of devices can also be configured to serve as a cloud proxies for multiple industrial devices according to one or more embodiments of this disclosure. For example illustrates an embodiment in which a firewall box serves as a cloud proxy for a set of industrial devices . Firewall box can act as a network infrastructure device that allows plant network to access an outside network such as the Internet while also providing firewall protection that prevents unauthorized access to the plant network from the Internet. In addition to these firewall functions the firewall box can include a cloud interface component that interfaces the firewall box with one or more cloud based services. In a similar manner to proxy industrial device of the firewall box can collect raw industrial data from industrial devices which monitor and control respective portions of controlled process es . Firewall box can also include a transformation component which applies suitable transformations to the gathered raw data prior to pushing the data to the cloud based application as refined data . As described in previous examples these transformations can include but are not limited to compression truncation summarization filtering aggregation addition of contextual metadata or other such transformations in accordance with user defined or cloud defined requirements. Beneficially the firewall box depicted in can allow industrial devices to interact with the cloud platform without directly exposing the industrial devices to the Internet.

In one or more embodiments the cloud interface component can also receive data from the cloud based application and route this data to one or more of the industrial devices . For example the cloud based service may be an enterprise resource management ERP system that analyzes production data in view of one or more defined business goals and generates production schedule information based on the analysis. Accordingly firewall box can receive the required production data from industrial devices as raw data transform the production data using transformation component and provide the production data to the cloud based ERP system as refined data . In response the cloud based ERP system can analyze the production data and generate updated production schedule information designed to ensure that one or more defined business goals are met e.g. fulfill a given customer order maintain total plant energy usage below a defined peak demand etc. . The cloud based ERP system can provide this scheduling information to the firewall box via cloud interface component which can then route the scheduling information to the appropriate industrial devices .

The context component can append contextual information or metadata to the raw data. The contextual information provides context for the data which can be leveraged by subsequent transformation steps or used by the cloud based application in connection with cloud side analysis. Turning briefly to an exemplary context component for transforming raw data into contextualized data is illustrated. Context component receives raw production data and enhances the raw data with one or more pieces of context data to yield contextualized data . For example context component can apply a time stamp to the raw data indicating a time a date and or a production shift when the data was generated. The applied context data may also include a production area that yielded the data a particular product that was being produced when the data was generated and or a state of a machine e.g. auto semi auto abnormal etc. at the time the data was generated. Other examples of context information include an employee on shift at the time the data was generated a lot number with which the data is associated or an alarm that was active at the time the data was generated. Context component can also apply an actionable data tag to the raw data if it is determined that the data requires action to be taken by plant personnel or by the cloud based application. Such actionable tags are discussed in more detail below.

Context component an also apply contextual information to the raw data that reflects the data s location within a hierarchical organizational model. Such an organization model can represent an industrial enterprise in terms of multiple hierarchical levels. In an exemplary organizational model the hierarchical levels can include from lowest to highest a workcell level a line level an area level a site level and an enterprise level. Devices that are components of a given automation system can be described and identified in terms of these hierarchical levels allowing a common terminology to be used across the entire enterprise to identify devices machines and data within the enterprise. In some embodiments the organizational model can be known to the context component which can stamp the raw data with a hierarchical identification tag that indicates the data s origin within the organizational hierarchy e.g. Company Marysville DieCastArea 1Headline LeakTestCell .

Returning to after the context component has added contextual information to the raw data filter component can determine which of the contextualized data is to be pushed to the cloud and discard data that is not required by the cloud based service. Similar to the filter component described in connection with filter component can filter the contextualized data according to any specified filtering criterion. In some embodiments filtering criteria can be defined in a transform profile associated with the transformation component . Exemplary filtering criteria can include instructions to discard certain types of data if the data exceeds or falls below a defined setpoint. For example the filtering criteria can specify that weight data collected from a testing device of a particular workcell is to be discarded if the data exceeds a maximum weight value indicative of a faulty reading. In such scenarios the data to which this filter criterion is to be applied can be identified based on the contextual information applied to the data by the context component . Filter component can also be configured to identify redundant data collected from two or more of the industrial devices and discard redundant instances of the same data. Again filter component can leverage the contextual information applied by the context component to identify instances of redundant data.

Transformation component can also include an aggregation component configured to combine related data according to one or more predefined aggregation instructions. For example once the raw data from industrial devices has been contextualized and filtered by the context component and the filter component aggregation component can identify related data which may originate from multiple data sources and combine the related data into a common upload for delivery to a cloud based service or application. The resulting refined data can be pushed to the cloud via cloud interface component .

While the exemplary transformation component of is described as including a context component a filter component and an aggregation component it is to be appreciated that the transformation component integrated with cloud proxy device can include any suitable combination of data refinement functions according to the needs of the user and the requirements of the particular cloud based services being used. For example transformation component may compress encrypt and or reformat the collected raw data prior to pushing the data to the cloud based service.

As mentioned above one or more embodiments set forth in this disclosure can apply an actionable data tag to raw data prior to uploading the data to the cloud. Such actionable data tags can be used by cloud based notification services to notify relevant personnel that an action is required in response to a detected event. illustrates an exemplary notification architecture according to one or more embodiments of this disclosure. In this example one or more controlled processes are monitored and or controlled by industrial device which can be an industrial controller a sensor a meter a motor drive or other such device. Alternatively industrial device may be a separate device e.g. a proxy device that is not directly involved in monitoring or controlling the controlled process es but instead collects raw process data from industrial devices involved with controlling the controlled process es and delivers this data to the cloud. In such embodiments industrial device can be for example a firewall box as described in connection with or other such network infrastructure device a data collection server or other suitable device capable of collecting or generating industrial data and providing this data to the cloud.

As in previous examples industrial device collects raw data from controlled process es or generates process data internally based on monitored conditions of the controlled process es . Industrial device includes a transformation component that transforms the raw data into refined data according to requirements of a particular cloud based application or service. In the present example the cloud based service is a notification service that runs on a cloud platform . Notification service can be a subscription service designed to receive tagged actionable data from a customer s plant floor equipment and to route notifications to appropriate plant personnel in accordance with the actionable data.

Transformation component can tag the raw data with an actionable tag according to one or more predefined tagging conditions. These can include such conditions as detecting that a particular process value has exceeded a defined setpoint detecting a transition to a particular machine state detecting an alarm condition determining that a specified production goal has been achieved or other such conditions that can be detected through analysis of the raw data . When the industrial device detects an actionable condition within a subset of the raw data transformation component can append the relevant data with an actionable tag that will indicate to the notification service that personnel are to be notified. The actionable tag can include information identifying one or more specific plant personnel who are to receive the notification as well as information identifying a user notification device phone number or email address for each person to be notified.

In one or more embodiments the transformation component can determine the information to include in the actionable data tag by cross referencing a configuration file that identifies which personnel are to be notified for a given type of condition one or more notification methods for each identified person and or other relevant information. Turning briefly to a more detailed illustration of the transformation component is depicted. Transformation component of industrial device can include a tagging component and a context component . Similar to context component described in connection with context component can append contextual information to the raw data read from controlled process es e.g. through I O of the industrial device . If the industrial device determines that a subset of the resulting contextualized data requires action to be taken by plant personnel tagging component can reference a configuration file to determine for example which personnel should be notified which user devices should receive the notification a required action to be taken by the recipient a due date for the action a format for the notification e.g. email text message text to voice etc. and or other relevant information. Configuration file can maintain multiple separate personnel lists respectively associated with different types of actionable situations. In some embodiments the personnel list selected for a given notification can be at least partly a function of the context data appended by context component . For example if raw data indicates that a process parameter has exceeded a setpoint value the tagging component can identify the list of personnel to receive the notification based on the area or workcell to which the process parameter relates. The industrial device can then send the resulting tagged actionable data to the cloud via cloud interface component .

Returning to after the transformation component creates the actionable data from raw data the industrial device sends the tagged actionable data to the cloud via cloud interface which is configured to exchange data with cloud based notification service . Notification service can identify the received data as actionable data determine the notification destinations by reading the actionable tag appended by the transformation component and deliver notifications to one or more notification destinations. The notification can be a delivered to cloud capable user device such as a phone a tablet computer a desktop computer or other suitable devices.

At one or more data requirements of a cloud platform or cloud based application are determined. Exemplary requirements can include a required data format or size a bandwidth limit e.g. a not to exceed bandwidth value a storage limit a summarization format a required update frequency a metadata requirement e.g. contextual data that must be added to the data before uploading a security requirement or other such criteria.

At the raw data is transformed according to the one or more requirements of the cloud based application determined at step . This can include one or more of compressing the raw data aggregating data according to predefined aggregation criteria encrypting the data filtering redundant or suspicious data reformatting the data to a format required by the cloud based application adding contextual information to the data or other suitable data transformations. At the resulting transformed data is sent to the cloud based application for storage or analysis.

In some cases additional processing of the contextualized data may be desired prior to delivering the data to the cloud. Accordingly at optional step the automation data is at least one of aggregated filtered or summarized based on the contextual metadata. For example subsets of the automation data having a similar context e.g. a same location production area work shift etc. can be aggregated together for subsequent delivery to the cloud. In another example it may be determined that a particular cloud based application only requires data relating to a particular workcell. Accordingly portions of the automation data whose contextual metadata indicates that the data originates from other workcells can be filtered or discarded. Summaries can also be generated using the collected automation data based on the contextual metadata e.g. aggregate data from a selected plant facility and summarize the production statistics for the respective work areas in that facility . At the refined data produced by steps is sent to a cloud based service for storage or for processing by a cloud based application.

At a subset of stored industrial data satisfying the request is retrieved. At the retrieved data is transformed to the data format specified by the initial request. For example a cloud based reporting application may request a set of process values in ASCII format. Accordingly a transformation component on the industrial device can convert the requested subset of stored data from floating point format to ASCII prior to pushing the data to the cloud based reporting application. In another example a cloud based reporting application that collects data from a mobile system may require that data is tagged with location information specifying a location of origin for the data. Accordingly the transformation component can append the requested data with GPS information in response to the request. Other suitable data transformations are within the scope of one or more embodiments of this disclosure. At the transformed data is sent to the cloud based application e.g. using a cloud interface component or gateway.

Embodiments systems and components described herein as well as industrial control systems and industrial automation environments in which various aspects set forth in the subject specification can be carried out can include computer or network components such as servers clients programmable logic controllers PLCs automation controllers communications modules mobile computers wireless components control components and so forth which are capable of interacting across a network. Computers and servers include one or more processors electronic integrated circuits that perform logic operations employing electric signals configured to execute instructions stored in media such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a hard drives as well as removable memory devices which can include memory sticks memory cards flash drives external hard drives and so on.

Similarly the term PLC or automation controller as used herein can include functionality that can be shared across multiple components systems and or networks. As an example one or more PLCs or automation controllers can communicate and cooperate with various network devices across the network. This can include substantially any type of control communications module computer Input Output I O device sensor actuator and human machine interface HMI that communicate via the network which includes control automation and or public networks. The PLC or automation controller can also communicate to and control various other devices such as I O modules including analog digital programmed intelligent I O modules other programmable controllers communications modules sensors actuators output devices and the like.

The network can include public networks such as the internet intranets and automation networks such as control and information protocol CIP networks including DeviceNet ControlNet and Ethernet IP. Other networks include Ethernet DH DH Remote I O Fieldbus Modbus Profibus CAN wireless networks serial protocols and so forth. In addition the network devices can include various possibilities hardware and or software components . These include components such as switches with virtual local area network VLAN capability LANs WANs proxies gateways routers firewalls virtual private network VPN devices servers clients computers configuration tools monitoring tools and or other devices.

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter as well as the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter may be implemented.

With reference to an example environment for implementing various aspects of the aforementioned subject matter includes a computer . The computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various available processors. Multi core microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including the memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to 8 bit bus Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

The system memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . The basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up is stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory includes random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM .

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. illustrates for example a disk storage . Disk storage includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic disk drive floppy disk drive tape drive Jaz drive Zip drive LS 100 drive flash memory card or memory stick. In addition disk storage can include storage media separately or in combination with other storage media including but not limited to an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device CD ROM CD recordable drive CD R Drive CD rewritable drive CD RW Drive or a digital versatile disk ROM drive DVD ROM . To facilitate connection of the disk storage devices to the system bus a removable or non removable interface is typically used such as interface .

It is to be appreciated that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and the basic computer resources described in suitable operating environment . Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of the computer system . System applications take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be appreciated that one or more embodiments of the subject disclosure can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user enters commands or information into the computer through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to the processing unit through the system bus via interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s . Thus for example a USB port may be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices like monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which require special adapters. The output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide a means of connection between the output device and the system bus . It should be noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer . For purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected via communication connection . Network interface encompasses communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN . LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet IEEE 802.3 Token Ring IEEE 802.5 and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refers to the hardware software employed to connect the network interface to the bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software necessary for connection to the network interface includes for exemplary purposes only internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards.

What has been described above includes examples of the subject innovation. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the disclosed subject matter but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the subject innovation are possible. Accordingly the disclosed subject matter is intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

In particular and in regard to the various functions performed by the above described components devices circuits systems and the like the terms including a reference to a means used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. a functional equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary aspects of the disclosed subject matter. In this regard it will also be recognized that the disclosed subject matter includes a system as well as a computer readable medium having computer executable instructions for performing the acts and or events of the various methods of the disclosed subject matter.

In addition while a particular feature of the disclosed subject matter may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes and including and variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims these terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

In this application the word exemplary is used to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion.

Various aspects or features described herein may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disk CD digital versatile disk DVD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

