---

title: Method and system of congestion control in a mobile virtual network
abstract: An approach is provided for dynamic congestion control among mobile virtual routers. A determination is made whether a congested segment of a network of a plurality of physical routers. A temporary congestion point is created at a mobile virtual router to divert traffic away from the congested segment using logical tunnels over non-congested physical links, wherein the mobile virtual router is configured to utilize resources of at least two of the physical routers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09077640&OS=09077640&RS=09077640
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09077640
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120113
---
With the increase in demand for broadband communications and services telecommunication service providers are continually challenged to provide the fastest and most reliable service to their customers to accommodate a wide variety of applications and services. Not surprisingly a vast interconnection of data networks has emerged to support these applications and services. However traditionally such networks are static in terms of allocation of network resources. In other words any fluctuation or variation in resource demand can undermine statically engineered network resources. A key factor in the variability of network resources is the fact that user devices e.g. smartphones laptops tablet computers etc. are mobile in nature and thereby imposes variable demand on the network depending on the mobility of the users. Such mobility can be unpredictable and thus static network architectures are ill suited. Moreover the inflexibility of these static networks is further exposed by the fact that over utilized links introduce congestion points that can result in delays in the delivery of data or even loss of data.

Therefore there is a need for an approach to accommodate the mobile nature of sophisticated services and applications and to avoid network congestion.

A preferred apparatus method and software for providing congestion control in a mobile virtual network are described. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the preferred embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however that the preferred embodiments may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the preferred embodiments of the invention.

Although various exemplary embodiments are described with respect to networks that carry data packets using Multiprotocol Label Switching MPLS technology it is contemplated that various exemplary embodiments are applicable to other equivalent systems and traffic flows.

Additionally or alternatively a dynamic virtual network gateway in some embodiments serves as the receiver and the control point for all the dynamic virtual network creation requests. Dynamic virtual network gateway DVNG can be one or more physical device s connected to the network and or a software module residing in the routers. It is contemplated that multiple gateways can be employed whereby each gateway or a set of gateways can manage an Autonomous System AS . Gateway can also serve as the initiator terminator of the dynamic virtual network solely or in conjunction with the VM mobility server . Gateway is more fully described with respect to .

Mobile virtual network is thus a virtual network that can be created by the mobile virtual routers and can move migrate adapt using mobile virtual routers as the event participants virtual servers move. MVRs can be created and or changed using underlining physical routers available resources. Thus MVRs may grow or shrink during their lifetime. That is MVRs can dynamically form a logical network that is separate and independent of the physical routers network that MVRs reside in and can move along with the associated events virtual servers.

Under this arrangement new logical networks can be dynamically formed for specific purposes or events. For example events can be a virtual conference including live demos conference a multi party virtual reality simulation involving large quantity of data transfer and synchronization or other applications e.g. medical diagnose surgery . By way of example these types of events possess the following characteristics the event is not a periodical occurrence the event has very large bandwidth requirements the event has strict performance requirements the event involves disperse participant multiple locations and the event has high security requirements. Traditional static architectures cannot efficiently support events exhibiting one or more of these characteristics. In fact traditionally creating a network that is specifically dedicated to the event may involve significant delay e.g. weeks or even months of planning and provisioning to be carried out on current shared carrier private network architectures . In addition due to the required intensive human intervention such dedicated network provisioning is costly hence limiting the offering of this type of network service to a relatively limited group of users applications. By contrast the creation of dynamic and customized networks can be accomplished significantly faster and at a much lower cost using MVRs which can be custom created and configured to form dedicated and transitional virtual networks .

As shown according to one embodiment MVR can be configured as a super MVR whereby the resources of multiple physical routers e.g. routers and are shared. Specifically mobile virtual routers MVR residing on different physical routers can be virtually grouped together to form and behave as a single MVR. In other words the physical resources on the different distinct routers and can be pooled together dynamically partitioned and used to achieve improved operational performance and efficiency.

In certain embodiments MVRs can be configured auto configured to move from one physical router e.g. router to another physical router e.g. router without service and traffic interruption. Traditionally virtual routers can be hardware based virtual router HVR or software based virtual router SVR . HVR typically refers to multiple virtual routers that share the same physical chassis and some common supporting resources such as power supply cooling management port switching fabric and so on. However critical control plane and forwarding plane resources sometimes even management plane resources are not shared. For example the typical control plane resources that are not shared include central processing unit CPU primary and back up and memory. The typical forwarding plane resources that are not shared include interface cards and backplane cards that support plug in interface cards. SVR typically refers to multiple virtual routers that share all the physical resources available in the physical router. The only separation of the SVRs is the separation of virtual resources. For example each SVR has separate control plane in the form of routing information database routing tables separate forwarding plane in the form of forward information databases logical interface tables and e.g. routing and traffic engineering IGP TE databases and separate management plane security and user control system log monitoring and reporting and so on .

Under existing approaches HVR and SVR technologies are not mobile meaning that they are statically provisioned and activated on an existing physical router. Furthermore HVR and SVR are typically a subset of a single physical router that is each physical router can have one or more HVRs and or SVRs but not the converse. Namely the HVRs and or SVRs cannot be associated with multiple routers.

Each of the MVRs is hybrid virtual router and can be backward compatible with existing router technologies e.g. HVR SVR. Details of a mobile virtual router are more fully described with respect to . Unlike HVRs and SVRs MVR e.g. any one of routers is highly dynamic and flexible. MVRs can for instance readily support and enable a variety of network operations that are required in cloud architectures as well as the evolving global Internet.

The above arrangement according to certain embodiments can provide self configuration traffic congestion avoidance under multiple failures conditions scaling of MVR to accommodate application types as well as performance optimization. Regarding self configuration of a newly created network e.g. MVN the MVR can be the foundation of an application driven network. In this manner the network can be built along with the services being provisioned by an application on demand. With respect to traffic congestion avoidance MVR can be used to alter the logical topology of the network creating local equal cost multi path ECMP conditions during the multiple failures conditions. Consequently the resulting traffic congestions can be minimized. With the continuous broadening of application types and the widening range of their related performance in terms of bandwidth and other network resources that are required to support them MVRs can be custom created to best support these applications. Small MVRs can be created as needed by reserving a small fraction of one physical router s resources. Large MVRs can be created where and as needed by combining together reserved resources belonging to a number of physical routers. As a result physical router resources are more effectively utilized especially the control plane resources such as CPU and memory. MVRs enable performance optimization in the growing mobile network environment MVR allows the network to become dynamic i.e. a moving and changing entity over time. These network changes among other things can match the network structure composed of MVRs to the mobility pattern of both users and applications e.g. virtual machines or VMs . Moreover such changes can best support and optimize end to end communication performance between mobile users and applications.

By way of example virtual network is created to include one or more mobile virtual routers . This creation process can be performed in part by using the establishment procedures for the individual MVRs and then configuring them to acknowledge the presence of each to the other MVRs. Gateway can determine whether the virtual network has sufficient resources to satisfy a predetermined criterion such as a dynamic virtual network requirement. Thereafter the size of the virtual network can be adjusted based on the determination. In one embodiment the size of the virtual network refers to the number of MVRs as well as the associated network and or system resources designated for consumption by the network .

Traditional congestion control mechanisms rely on congestion notification CN plus per interface queuing control. When congestion occurs on an interface the interface queues start to fill up. The packets will be dropped according to the traffic discard algorithm and congestion notification will be generated and sent out simultaneously. Consequently all the source routes that have active traffic stream being carried on the congested link will receive the congestion notification. Upon receiving the congestion notification the source routers typically have two options. First the source router can alert customer routers to slow down the traffic. However in reality this request is typically ignored by the customer routers. Second if there are quality of service QoS schemes running in the network the source router can shape using certain policies the incoming traffic from customer routers more strictly the source router can even begin to drop low priority traffic at ingress according to the policy.

Regarding process of in step determines a congested segment of the network . In step a temporary congestion point is created at a mobile virtual router e.g. MVR to divert traffic away from the congested segment using logical tunnels over non congested physical links of physical routing network wherein the mobile virtual router is configured to utilize resources of at least two of the physical routers. In step process tears down the mobile virtual router .

To better appreciate the described approach a use case involving four physical routers of network is assumed whereby router employs congestion logic to facilitate the execution of process . In this example all traffic from router to router traverses router following for instance the lowest Internal Gateway Protocol IGP cost 20 versus 30 . This can cause a local congestion on the link between router and router and or router and router while the links on router are underutilized.

By way of example the following procedure which is also captured in can be used to dynamically create a local load balancing condition to alleviate the congestion on the link between router and router . Router detects congestion on the link e.g. link ingress queue starting to fill up beyond a predetermined level . Router then determines how many e.g. Label Switched Paths LSPs are carried on the link and identifies the neighbor upstream router of those LSPs. In this example the LSPs are from router to router router to router and router to router . This procedure addresses the LSPs from the upstream router using the congested link. Router compares the number of LSPs from the upstream router with a pre set value to see if an action needs to be taken. Assuming an action is needed router computes an alternative path between router upstream router and router downstream router that does not go through the congested link and the IGP cost of the alternative path. Router compares the cost of alternative path with the normal router to router IGP cost going through router . If the cost difference is within the pre set limit predetermined threshold router determines that a local load balancing operation can be created.

Router signals router to create a super MVR this procedure is detailed below with respect to . This super MVR is an extension of router which includes some resources of the physical router . The super MVR can share the same control plane and forwarding plane information already used by router executing protocols to exchange the control plane and forwarding plane and or management plane information between router and super MVR . According to one embodiment super MVR signals router to create a logical trunk tunnel between router and super MVR using physical link router router . Also super MVR signals router to create a logical trunk e.g. tunnel between router and super MVR using physical link between router router .

After the completion of the procedure router sees two equal IGP cost links between router and router now Super MVR one physical link router router one logical link router router . Router will also see two equal IGP cost links between router now super MVR and router one physical link router router one logical link router router . It is contemplated that network can execute certain protocols to route all LSPs with destination router to use the physical links. All other LSPs can be load balanced between two sets of links. The load balancing algorithm can be based on the number of LSPs and or LSP bandwidth requirements. This mechanism according to certain embodiments can be applied to IP and or optical wavelength switched paths where load balancing can be based on IP flows and or optical paths wavelengths.

In a network topology with very high connectivity numerous links meshed between the routers the described process can be used with additional loop avoidance algorithm to select the proper logical trunk without inducing routing loop.

The LSPs on the created super MVR can be monitored closely and taken done when e.g. the number of LSPs and or total required bandwidth falls below a predetermined threshold.

As described above for physical routing network shown in this network employs Multiprotocol Label Switching MPLS technology according to certain embodiments . This technology is based on setting up virtual paths between communication nodes e.g. routers in a network. MPLS provides high speed transfer of packets over data networks by appending labels to packets that contain information related to the path that the data packet will take to reach its destination. The use of such labels eliminates the need for routers to examine the header of each packet resulting in the faster delivery of packets to their destination. The details on MPLS technology is further described in Internet Engineering Task Force IETF Request for Comment RFC 3031 which is incorporated herein in its entirety. Even though various technologies such as MPLS predominantly support fast delivery of packets the characteristics and construction of the physical network infrastructure plays an equally vital role. Moreover it is recognized that multi protocol label switching MPLS traffic engineering TE has been developed to provide network administrators with the ability to control and manipulate the flow of traffic through a network. MPLS TE utilizes label switching techniques to construct label switched paths LSP label distribution protocol LDP flows and fast re route FRR tunnels on one or more links interconnecting nodes of one or more networks or autonomous systems . Routing protocols are utilized to determine MPLS traffic flow routes through the network as well as govern the distribution of routing information between nodes .

By way of example physical routers as routing nodes may include bridges firewalls gateways laptop computers mobile telephones personal digital assistants personal computers routers set top boxes servers switches video game devices workstations or any other suitable device customer premise equipment etc. capable of routing functions such as layer three routing or data transfer functions associated with the open systems interconnection OSI reference model. It is noted that physical routers may route transmission units over network based on one or more routing protocols such as boarder gateway protocol BGP constrained shortest path first CSPF exterior gateway protocol EGP interior gateway routing protocol IGRP enhanced interior gateway routing protocol EIGRP intermediate system to intermediate system IS IS protocol routing information protocol RIP open shortest path first OSPF or any other suitable routing protocol.

Mobile virtual network can provide a transport environment in certain embodiments for other networks not shown . These networks may include one or more telephony networks e.g. a circuit switched network such as the public switched telephone network PSTN an integrated services digital network ISDN a private branch exchange PBX or other like network. In other instances such networks may also or alternatively include one or more wireless networks that employ one or more access technologies such as for example code division multiple access CDMA enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like. According to various embodiments the networks may further include one or more data networks such as one or more local area networks LAN metropolitan area networks MAN wide area networks WAN the Internet or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network having voice over internet protocol VoIP capabilities e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network.

The decentralized control instances may be viewed as a single control entity to make the internal MVR structure completely transparent to other MVRs and conventional router architectures. Furthermore these functions can be combined to jointly work in the same MVR at once. For example the MVR control instances may first be provisioned and activated in one physical router . If needed these instances can be extended to work in a decentralized way across router and a second physical router . By way of example at a later time the MVR control plane instances may be restricted to run on router only thus freeing the resources of physical router to be used by other MVRs.

Exchange of information for coordination and data transmission between decentralized instances of the same MVR may take place using both standard and or proprietary interfaces and protocols that are best suited for these tasks. In other words a number of protocols can be specified and embedded into the network architecture to have the MVR dynamically set up and torn down based on the VM mobility and current location. The protocol can announce the capability of the MVR running on a given physical router to other physical routers that may host the MVR next. This protocol can include the signaling and communication exchange between routers in the same network autonomous system between routers in different networks between routers and the gateway and or the VM mobility server an Application Control Gateway ACG not shown and a Network Control Gateway NCG not shown .

Additionally the protocol can permit the VM mobility server to signal the VM mobility occurrence. This protocol can contain the detailed information regarding the VM relocation such as VM s network address e.g. Internet Protocol IP and Medium Access Control MAC addresses VM s before and after location VM user locations VM move duration any routing performance requirements bandwidth latency affinity etc. any security requirements and etc. Moreover the protocol can also be used by ACG NCG and MVRs to determine if and how MVRs are to be moved set up in order to optimize the network routing based on the VM new location.

In certain embodiments a modified IGP protocol is used by the MVR e.g. MVR to announce its existence formation as well as by an existing MVR to announce its termination to all routers within the network. This protocol can trigger the network optimization process in response to the resulting change of network topology.

Furthermore the protocol can be utilized by the VM mobility server to signal the end of session of the relocated VM to a number of network cloud modules. These modules in some embodiments include ACG NCG and MVRs and can determine if existing MVRs need to be torn down or not. This protocol can also contain the detailed information regarding the VM that is being terminated or relocated.

In certain embodiments dynamic virtual network gateway includes a request management module to receive requests for the creation and termination of the MVN . Also a resource determination module is included to provide the capability to determine whether sufficient resources of the physical routing network and associated physical routers are available to create the MVN for the requestor. For example module can be responsible for determining whether the physical routers and network have enough resources to meet all the dynamic virtual network requirements received from the request initiator. Furthermore gateway can automatically determine the physical and or logical homing connectivity between all the event users and the DVNG controlled network e.g. which user connects to which router .

In addition gateway may employ a number of application programming interfaces which involve the following information exchange request initiator information dynamic virtual network user information and dynamic virtual network requirement information. Further gateway accesses a database that stores network condition profile information to enable the gateway and the request initiator to appropriately determine current network condition profile or state and to negotiate request requirement modification if necessary. For example the network condition profile may include but is not limited to the following all requirements can be met and virtual network formation request cannot be fulfilled specifying the reasons for that outcome. Such reasons can include Requirements cannot be met due to insufficient network resource availability and Request is rejected specifying the reasons for rejection.

For router or switch residing in a different AS driven dynamic virtual network formation the protocols executed by gateway can enable the initiating switch router to communicate with dynamic virtual network gateway . These protocols can include similar information profiles specified in Table 1.

Upon a virtual network formation agreement being reached between the request initiator and DVNG the specified dynamic virtual network be established and at a later stage will be terminated when it is no longer needed . Accordingly DVNG can execute certain protocols to enable DVNG to signal all involved routers e.g. those determined to have connectivity to form or terminate new MVRs that are part of the dynamic virtual network . Such protocols can additionally support the newly created MVRs for reserving or releasing network virtual resources on the physical router network resources identified through the resource determination module .

Further gateway can execute protocols which may include modifications of already existing protocols in support of the created MVRs to bring to completion terminate the requested dynamic virtual network. For example adjacency information link state information traffic engineering information may be collected and subsequently discarded .

As shown mobile virtual network can employ gateway to manage virtual machines . Alternatively VM mobility server can also be used to handle this virtual machines . In this example mobile devices can execute respective applications to interact with the virtual machines . These applications according to certain embodiments may require constant mobility of virtual machines that are dedicated to their support. One example of such applications is a multi party interactive application e.g. game simulator with thousands millions of users players participating from many locations. The game or application can be continually executing e.g. running 24 7 whereby users can be active or inactive based on their interest and time availability. Depending on the game dynamics and users participation patterns the network may experience waves of active users who are moving geographically according to time zones. This wave of active users is likely to require a continuous migration of VMs to efficiently run the game possibly choosing VM locations that are in proximity of large pockets of active users for the best time response. With this continuous VMs migration the mobile virtual network which is established to support the application may be constantly mutated to best match the moving entities i.e. the pattern of active users and locations of VMs 

One advantage of this process in certain embodiments is that it does not rely on source router crank back to resolve the congestion and thus is an ideal solution for very large network with highly connected topology where multiple congestions can occur and congestion condition changes relatively quick . Under these circumstances source router crank back can take a long time to resolve the congestion problem because the source router may be far away from the congestion point and the new path chosen by the source router may encounter new congestions thus creating a domino effect.

It is contemplated that the resources of the physical routers of network can be utilized simultaneously. Moreover the control plane instance the forwarding plane instance and the management plane instance can be removed from one physical router and replicated on a different one of the physical routers. In this manner the mobile virtual router can be relocated from one physical router to another physical router. According to one embodiment a control signal can be generated to indicate the end of session of the relocation for transmission to a cloud module.

After the MVR is established at some point the MVR can be torn down to free or reallocate resources. This tear down procedure in certain embodiments can be initiated by the generation of a termination message to tear down the MVR step . Thereafter the termination message is supplied to the appropriate physical router that is hosting the MVR step .

Due to some circumstances the data center operator must move the VM from the Houston data center to the San Antonio data center during service. In this case the data flow from the user device to the VM will likely go through the following route customer router in Dallas to CSP edge router in Dallas to CSP backbone between Dallas and Houston to CSP edge router in Houston to CSP data center gateway router to CSP edge router in Houston to CSP backbone between Houston and San Antonio to CSP edge router in San Antonio to CSP data center gateway router in San Antonio.

This route which exhibits a type of zig zag routing problem induced by the VM mobility can add significant end to end latency and un necessary traffic load in the CSP backbone . To address this problem one approach is to create super MVRs and running on the data center gateway routers and respectively. When VM is relocated the super MVR in data center gateway routers associated with the VM is also moved to new physical data center gateway routers . In that case the routing tables of CSP edge routers and are then updated based on the new customer edge CE router MVR reachability. The end to end application server routes are thus re optimized upon completion of the VMs relocation.

The processes described herein for forming of a mobile virtual network may be implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Network Processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for controlling cursor movement on the display .

According to an exemplary embodiment the processes described herein are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement exemplary embodiments. Thus exemplary embodiments are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for EthernetTM or an Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an exemplary embodiment through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium or non transitory i.e. non volatile media and volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the exemplary embodiments may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

In one embodiment the chip set includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a general purposed processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to providing notification of a change in path condition. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly the invention is not limited to such embodiments but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements.

