---

title: Anonymous biometric identification
abstract: This disclosure describes methods for identifying an individual in an anonymous biometric authentication system, where an individual's biometric data is captured by a device, and the resulting probe is compared with the templates in a previously enrolled population. The system comprises a Biographic Identity Management System having a non-anonymous sector in communication with an anonymous sector through a network cloud. The anonymous sector or Anonymous Biometric Identity Management System contains an index of tokens associated, each associated uniquely with a biometric template, which may then be compared with a biometric probe to determine the identity of an individual.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09262613&OS=09262613&RS=09262613
owner: ImageWare Systems, Inc.
number: 09262613
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121002
---
The present application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 567 591 filed on Dec. 6 2011 entitled Anonymous Biometric Verification System U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 567 595 filed on Dec. 6 2011 entitled Anonymous Biometric Enrollment System and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 567 599 filed on Dec. 6 2011 entitled Anonymous Biometric Identification System the disclosures of all of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This invention relates generally to the field of biometric authentication and identification and more specifically to anonymous biometric identity management and verification without knowledge of biographic demographic or otherwise identifying information.

The need to establish personal identity occurs for most individuals many times a day. For example a person may have to establish identity in order to gain access to physical spaces computers bank accounts personal records restricted areas reservations and the like. Identity is typically established by a physical object such as but not limited to a key driver license bank card credit card known information such as but not limited to a computer password personal identification number PIN number and or a unique and measurable biological feature such as but not limited to a face recognized by a bank teller or security guard. From a security standpoint identification based on a biological or behavioral feature is often favored because it can be objectively and automatically measured and is resistant to impersonation theft or other fraud. The use of biometrics which are measurements derived from human biological features to identify individuals is a rapidly emerging science.

Biometrics is a generic term for characteristics that can be used to distinguish one individual from another particularly through the use of digital equipment such as a computer. An example of a biometric is a fingerprint. Trained analysts have long been able to match fingerprints in order to identify individuals. More recently computer systems have been developed to match fingerprints automatically. Examples of biometrics that have been or are now being used to identify or authenticate the identity of individuals include two dimensional 2D face three dimensional 3D face hand geometry single fingerprint ten finger live scan iris palm full hand signature ear finger vein retina DNA and voice. Other biometric may include characteristic gaits lip movements and the like. New biometric are being developed or discovered continually.

The implementation of a biometrics system requires the coordination between the individual providing the biometrics and the organization or business implementing the respective biometrics technology. Generally the implementation of a biometrics system requires the individual to undergo an initial enrollment process. This means that one or more sample biometric measurements are provided by the individual along with personal identifying demographic information such as for example name address telephone number an identification number e.g. a social security number a bank account number a credit card number a reservation number or some other information unique to that individual. The sample biometric measurements are stored along with this personal identification data in a database.

Following this initial enrollment process whereby the individual s biographic information is stored with the associated initial biometric sample the individual that seeks verification at a subsequent time submits a second biometric sample or multiple samples along with some personal identifying information such as described above that is unique to that person. The personal identifying information is used to retrieve the individual s initial sample biometric from the database. This first sample is compared to the second sample and if the samples are judged to match by some criteria specific to the biometric technology then the individual is authenticated.

A second form of biometric authentication is identification. Like the verification case the individual must be enrolled in a biometric database where each record includes a first biometric sample and accompanying personal identifying information which are intended to be released when authentication is successful. In order to be authenticated the individual submits only a second biometric sample but no identifying information. The second biometric sample is compared against all first biometric samples in the database and a single matching first sample is found by applying a match criteria. The advantage of this second form of authentication is that the individual need not remember or carry the unique identifying information required in the verification method to retrieve a single first biometric sample from the database.

A common security problem within the above biometric identification and authentication techniques is the requirement of a central database of personal biographic and or demographic information which is usually revealed at the moment of biometric matching and sampling. For example personal information of the individual undergoing identification or authentication may be disclosed that is otherwise intended to be kept private. Thus there exists the need of a new biometric identification technique that overcomes privacy concerns associated with this database containing personal identifying biographic demographic information.

The present invention overcomes these and other deficiencies of the prior art by providing an anonymous biometric identification system and method that confirms the biometric identity of a subject individual without knowledge and or disclosure of any biographic demographic or otherwise identifying information of that individual.

In an embodiment of the invention a method of biometrically identifying an individual comprises receiving at a query engine a biometric probe determining and queuing potential candidates to a queue getting a candidate from the queue locating a token associated with the candidate matching probe to template to generate a score determining if the score meets a predetermined minimum threshold and adding the token to a first list of probable matches if the score meets the predetermined minimum threshold. The method may further comprise transmitting the first list of probable matches. The biometric probe and the biometric template may be based on facial recognition iris recognition and or fingerprint recognition. Alternatively the biometric probe and the biometric template are based on hand geometry recognition ten finger live scan palm recognition full hand recognition signature recognition ear recognition finger vein recognition retina recognition voice recognition DNA based recognition or combination thereof. The method may further comprise receiving by a query router at least one biometric probe selecting a query engine transmitting the biometric probe to the query engine receiving the list of probable matches from the query engine generating a second list of probable matches from the list of probable matches and transmitting the second list of probable matches to a non anonymous sector. The receiving by a query router may comprise receiving a second biometric probe. The method may further comprise selecting a second query engine transmitting the second biometric probe to the second query engine receiving a third list of probable matches from the second query engine wherein the second list of probable matches is also generated from the third list of probable matches. The method may further comprise biometrically capturing the at least one biometric probe by a biometric client transmitting the biometric probe and the token to the query router and receiving a list of probable matches from the query router.

In another embodiment of the invention an anonymous biometric verification system comprises a query engine comprising a first processor a first communications interface and a first memory comprising first instructions wherein the first instructions cause the first processor to receive a biometric probe determine and queuing potential candidates to a queue getting a candidate from the queue locating a token associated with the candidate matching probe to template to generate a score determining if the score meets a predetermined minimum threshold and adding the token to a list of probable matches if the score meets the predetermined minimum threshold. The biometric probe and the biometric template may be based on facial recognition iris recognition and or fingerprint recognition. Alternatively the biometric probe and the biometric template are based on hand geometry recognition ten finger live scan palm recognition full hand recognition signature recognition ear recognition finger vein recognition retina recognition voice recognition DNA based recognition or combination thereof. The system may further comprise a query router comprising a second processor a second communications interface and a second memory comprising second instructions wherein the second instructions cause the second processor to receive by a query router at least one biometric probe select a query engine transmit the biometric probe to the query engine receive the list of probable matches from the query engine generate second list of probable matches from the list of probable matches and transmit the second list of probable matches to a non anonymous sector.

In another embodiment of the invention a non transient computer readable storage medium comprises a templates manager comprising instructions that cause a processor to receive a biometric probe determine and queuing potential candidates to a queue get a candidate from the queue locate a token associated with the candidate match probe to template to generate a score determine if the score meets a predetermined minimum threshold and add the token to a list of probable matches if the score meets the predetermined minimum threshold. The medium may further comprise a plug in based on facial recognition a plug in based on iris recognition and or a plug in based on fingerprint recognition. Alternatively the medium may further comprises a plug in based on hand geometry recognition ten finger live scan palm recognition full hand recognition signature recognition ear recognition finger vein recognition retina recognition voice recognition DNA based recognition or combination thereof.

Accordingly an advantage of the present invention is that biometric information may be managed in a platform that does not contain biographic or demographic information thereby making the platform more reliable faster scalable flexible and accurate as well as eliminating privacy concerns.

The foregoing and other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following more particular description of the preferred embodiments of the invention the accompanying drawings and the claims.

Further features and advantages of the invention as well as the structure and operation of various embodiments of the invention are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying wherein like reference numerals refer to like elements. Although the invention is described in the context of implementing three types of biometrics face fingerprint and iris biometrics one of ordinary skill in the art recognizes that any type and number of biometrics may be implemented.

To address privacy concerns the present invention provides an anonymous biometric identification system and method. Anonymous biometric verification refers to the biometric identity confirmation without knowledge or disclosure of any biographic demographic or otherwise identifying information of a subject individual. As will be used herein biometric authentication refers to the process of uniquely recognizing humans based upon one or more intrinsic physical or behavioral traits. Biometric modality refers to the inclusion of different categories and or types of biometric identifiers. Multimodal biometric refers to the use of multiple types of biometric identifiers. See e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 596 246 and 7 362 884 the entire disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein. Biometric verification refers to the user of biometric authentication to confirm the identity of a person. Biometric identification refers to the use of biometric authentication to identify a person among a biometrically enrolled population. Anonymous biometric identification refers to the use of biometric authentication to identify a person among a biometrically enrolled population without knowing or disclosing any biographic demographic or otherwise identifying information of the subject individual. See e.g. United States Patent Application Publication No. 2002 0112177 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein. Biometric enrollment refers to the act of creating and storing biometric data templates from captured biometric images or other biometric data for the purpose of biometric authentication i.e. verification and or identification . Biometric probe refers to a captured biometric that is used to compare and match against a prior biometric enrollment. Biometric score or match score refers to a probability score that a given biometric enrollment and a given biometric probe represent the same identity. Biometric fusion score refers to a probability score that multiple biometric enrollments of one or more biometric modalities match multiple biometric probes of the same modalities. The scores of each modality have been normalized and combined i.e. fused to create a single probability score. Biometric capture refers to the act of using a biometric input device or system to capture biometric data in the form of images templates or other form. Anonymous biometric authentication token refers to a unique identifier that has no intrinsic explicit relationship to either biographic or biometric data but can be used to isolate the specific biometric data for matching and or analysis. Identity management application refers to a system for managing and or integrating the management of both biographic demographic and biometric data. Biometric data refers to information that is used to verify or identify a person based on physical traits or behaviors. Examples of biometric data include but are not limited to images of fingerprints faces 2 D or 3 D irises and binary data generated by biometric algorithms that are used for biometric enrollment identity verification and identification. Biometric template refers to a piece of binary data generated by a biometric algorithm that is used to compare one biometric against another. Biographic and demographic data refers to non biometric data that intrinsically identifies a person. Examples of biographic data include name s height weight birthdate race color hair color etc. Examples of demographic data include current location location of origin etc.

The non anonymous biometric identity management sector comprises biometric clients which may be any type of computer having installed thereon a suitable operating system and biometric software preferably implemented in a client software development kit SDK . Each biometric client is associated with already stored demographic data that can be managed individually for each biometric client or centrally by an identity management system not shown .

Biometric clients are in communication with a query router through a computer network which may be a public computer network such as but not limited to the Internet or a private network such as a wide area network WAN local area network LAN wireless local area network WLAN or any combination thereof. One of ordinary skill in the art recognizes that these networks are exemplary and any type of network may be implemented. Computer network may also be referred to as a cloud network. 

Query router may be implemented as a computer having installed thereon a suitable operating system and biometric software programmed to the present invention. Query router communicates with a plurality of query engines through a suitable computer network . Computer network can be a public network or a private network or combination thereof it may further include secure tunnels over a public network such as a virtual private network VPN the implementation of which is apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Query router is in communication with non anonymous sector through computer network . Query router is an optional element of the ABIMI and is advantageous to support hardware scalability. The query router will route a query in whole or in part to one or more appropriate query engines to execute a query i.e. matching and or enrollments . The query engine s may or may not be on the same physical or virtual machine as the query router . In an another embodiment of the invention the query router is not present in the ABIMI queries can be transmitted direct to a query engine or even the underlying template data manager as discussed below.

Query router receives service oriented architecture SOA calls from the biometric clients and then routes those requests to the appropriate query engines depending on the biometric type or work load on the query engines . Multiple query engines are preferable when using multiple physical or virtual machines to support scalability of population and or improve system performance. Query router monitors the activities of the query engines and combines their responses success fail into a single SOA response which is sent back to the requesting biometric client . Each query engine converts biometric images into templates and has an associated cache not shown which is preferably implemented in physical memory. Query engine communicates with query router and moves templates into and out of cache. Each query engine may also support a plurality of caches.

The SOA calls can be implemented in a variety of technologies the identification and implementation of which are known to one of ordinary skill in the art. For example SOA calls may be implemented as remote procedure calls RPC over simple object access protocol SOAP representational state transfer REST distributed component object model DCOM common object request broker architecture CORBA and data distribution service DDS . The information can be carried over a variety of application level protocols including but not limited to hypertext transfer protocol HTTP secure HTTP HTTPS and file transfer protocol FTP .

Query router may configure query engines in a group for striped or mirrored operation. In striped operation templates are cached in a striped or distributed fashion across the query engines of the group. Each query engine caches only part of templates of the group. Query router distributes the templates to query engines based upon a load balancing scheme that maintains the number of templates cached by each query engine approximately equal. Meanwhile in the mirrored configuration the templates are mirrored across the entire query engine group. Each query engine would cache every template assigned to the group. In the mirrored configuration query router instructs a single query engine to execute a search without having to queue search requests.

The communications interface is used to interface query engine to external devices such as the query router . In the depicted example the interface is shown as network interface such as a network interface card NIC . Network interface can be configured to carry data using the internet protocol IP with transmission control protocol TCP or user datagram protocol UDP and can be based on any number of data link protocols including but not limited to Ethernet point to point protocol PPP high level Data link control HDLC and advanced data communication control protocol ADCCP . Alternatively or in addition the communications interface can include other forms of inter device communications including but not limited to universal serial bus USB IEEE 1394 Firewire eSATA and or high definition multimedia interface HDMI .

Mass storage can comprise any number of storage media including but not limited to a hard disk drive solid state drive flash memory and or optical storage media. Mass storage is used to supplement memory and is often configured with files in a file system but may also provide storage for virtual memory as an extension of memory .

Processor can be any device for executing instructions particularly instructions stored in memory . Processor can comprise any commercially available processor such as a central processor unit CPU floating point processor unit FPU graphics processing unit GPU a multicore processor a microprocessor either in the form of a microchip or chip set a macroprocessor or generally any device for executing software instructions. Or processor can comprise a custom made processing device such as one made from a programmable logic array PLA field programmable gate array FPGA application specific integrated circuit ASIC solution on a chip SOC or combination thereof.

Memory can comprise any one or combination of volatile memory elements such as random access memory RAM for example dynamic RAM DRAM static RAM SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM double data rate DDR RAM etc. and or nonvolatile memory elements such as read only memory ROM flash memory hard drive tape optical media etc. . In addition memory can comprise various components such as program memory for storing processor instructions data memory for storing data used by the processor and or various levels of caches. It should be noted that mass storage and memory can share much of the same functionality for example program instructions can be stored both in mass storage and read into memory as the processor executes the program instructions. Therefore one of ordinary skill in the art should note that though described separately in this embodiment memory can perform any function described for mass storage .

The software in memory can include one or more separate programs each of which includes an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions. Typically the software in memory which may initially be stored in mass storage read into memory for execution by processor and can include operating system . Executing within the operating system is application specific software . It should be noted however that the modules within application specific software can be implemented in software hardware or a combination of software and hardware. In addition to controlling and executing application specific software operating system can be configured to manage hardware resources including but not limited to input output control file and data management memory management communications controls and provide software services including but not limited to control the execution of other computer programs scheduling and inter process communications.

Template database can be implemented either directly in memory or stored in mass storage . Template database stores biometric templates which have been previously enrolled.

In query engine application specific software comprises template manager and one or more biometric modules which can be implemented as a plug in module. A plug in module is a common interface to template manager . By using a plug in module only a minor change to application specific software is needed to add additional biometric modules to the query engine. Often biometric capabilities are provide by means of software development kits SDK which are typically proprietary applications provide by third parties. SDKs can be converted to a plug in module by wrapping the application program interfaces API provide by the SDK into the common interface to template manager .

Application specific software can also be provided and stored on a non transient storage medium either for distribution or retrieval for execution by the processor when needed.

More specifically in these biometric modules are depicted as facial recognition plug in iris recognition module plug in and fingerprint recognition module . Facial recognition plug in can comprise facial recognition SDK which can be adapted to compare facial biometric templates and return a score that represents the degree of similarity of the templates. Iris recognition plug in can comprise iris recognition SDK which can be adapted to compare iris biometric templates and return a score that represents the degree of similarity of the templates. Fingerprint recognition plug in can comprise fingerprint recognition SDK .

Biometric module plug ins can be classified as either normal plug ins or pass through plug ins. A normal plug in is supplied probe and enrolled templates and returns a score based on the comparison between the probe and enrolled templates. This can be implemented by the wrapper functions within the plug in providing the probe and enrolled templates to the underlying SDK for comparison and scoring and receiving scores from the underlying SDK. A pass through plug in receives enrollment templates during enrollment and only probe templates during verification or comparison. Essentially all data is passed through directly to the underlying SDK. The primary difference between the two types of plug ins is that in a normal plug in biometric templates are stored in templates database and retrieved by template manager and provided to the plug in for comparison and scoring and in a pass through plug in all information is passed through to the pass through plug in and the biometric templates are not stored in templates database rather storage of the templates relies on the pass through plug in and in particular any underlying proprietary recognition module often provided in the form of an SDK. In the previous example facial and iris recognition are commonly implemented as a normal plug in and fingerprint recognition is commonly implemented as a pass through plug in.

Template manager manages the templates database where biometric templates are stored and retrieved for searches. Template manager can also determine which plug in module is to be used. Template manager can further comprise identification logic .

At step query engine receives through the communications interface biometric data probe from non anonymous sector either directly or through query router . At step query engine queues one or more candidates from at least one templates database containing the biometrics and the associated tokens of previously enrolled individual or through a suitable pass through plug in . At step a check is performed to determine whether the queue is empty. If it is not query engine retrieves and removes a candidate from the queue at step . At step the candidate s template s along with associated template is retrieved. At step At least one score is generated comparing the probe to the candidate s template s . It should be noted that multiple templates may be used for example when the probe comprises biometric data of different modalities. At step the score is checked to see if a threshold condition is met. If one or more scores meet the score threshold the token along with the score s are added to the list of possible matches at step . Query engine repeats the process by checking the queue at step . Once the queue is determined to be empty that is no more candidates to compare the list of possible matches is sent back at step .

The communications interface is used to interface query engine to external devices such as a query engine or to the non anonymous sector. In the depicted example the interface is shown as network interface such as a NIC card. Network interface can be configured to carry data using the IP protocol with TCP or UDP and can be based on any number of data link protocols including but not limited to Ethernet PPP HDLC and ADCCP. Alternatively or in addition the communications interface can include other forms of inter device communications including but not limited to USB Firewire eSATA and or HDMI. Multiple communications interfaces can be used for example a network interface could be used to communicate with the non anonymous sector and an alternate communications interface such as USB could be used to communicate to the query engines.

Processor can be any device for executing instructions particularly instructions stored in memory . Processor can comprise any commercially available processor such as a CPU FPU GPU a multicore processor a microprocessor either in the form of a microchip or chip set a macroprocessor or generally any device for executing software instructions. Or processor can comprise a custom made processing device such as one made from a PLA FPGA ASIC SOC or combination thereof.

Memory can comprise any one or combination of volatile memory elements such as RAM for example DRAM SRAM SDRAM DDR RAM etc. and or nonvolatile memory elements such as read only memory ROM flash memory hard drive tape optical media etc. . In addition memory can comprise various components such as program memory for storing processor instructions data memory for storing data used by the processor and or various levels of caches.

The software in memory can include one or more separate programs each of which includes an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions. Typically the software in memory can include operating system . Executing within the operating system is application specific software . It should be noted however that the modules within application specific software can be implemented in software hardware or a combination of software and hardware. In addition to controlling and executing application specific software operating system can be configured to manage hardware resources including but not limited to input output control file and data management memory management communications controls and provide software services including but not limited to control the execution of other computer programs scheduling and inter process communications.

In query router application specific software comprises request router which receives SOA calls from biometric clients in non anonymous sector and routes the request to the appropriate query engine based on the client of origin type of biometric data token specific information and query engine workload. Application specific software also comprises biometric software not shown .

Application specific software can also be provided and stored on a non transient storage medium either for distribution or retrieval for execution by the processor when needed.

The biometric client also comprises one or more data buses which facilitates the communications between the aforementioned components. The data buses can include internal data buses external serial buses USB PCI bus SATA eSATA etc. or combination thereof. For example the processor and memory could communicate using an internal data bus but the process containing the biometric client also comprises one or more data buses which facilitates the communications between the aforementioned components. The data buses can include internal data buses external serial buses USB PCI bus SATA eSATA etc. or combination thereof. For example the processor and memory could communicate using an internal data bus but the processor and a biometric input capture device could communicate using USB.

Biometric input devices can include commercially available biometric input and capture devices such as digital camera A for capturing facial images fingerprint scanner B and iris image capture device C. Capture devices generally may include 2D face 3D face hand geometry single fingerprint ten finger live scan iris palm full hand signature ear finger vein retina DNA and voice capture devices.

The communications interface is used to interface biometric client to external devices such as a query router or to the anonymous sector in general. In the depicted example the interface is shown as network interface such as a NIC card. Network interface can be configured to carry data using the IP protocol with TCP or UDP and can be based on any number of data link protocols including but not limited to Ethernet PPP HDLC and ADCCP. Alternatively or in addition the communications interface can include other forms of inter device communications including but not limited to USB Firewire eSATA and or HDMI.

Processor can be any device for executing instructions particularly instructions stored in memory . Processor can comprise any commercially available processor such as a CPU FPU GPU a multicore processor a microprocessor either in the form of a microchip or chip set a macroprocessor or generally any device for executing software instructions. Or processor can comprise a custom made processing device such as one made from a PLA FPGA ASIC SOC or combination thereof.

Memory can comprise any one or combination of volatile memory elements such as RAM for example DRAM SRAM SDRAM DDR RAM etc. and or nonvolatile memory elements such as read only memory ROM flash memory hard drive tape optical media etc. . In addition memory can comprise various components such as program memory for storing processor instructions data memory for storing data used by the processor and or various levels of caches.

The software in memory can include one or more separate programs each of which includes an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions. Typically the software in memory can include operating system . Executing within the operating system is application specific software . It should be noted however that the modules within the application specific software can be implemented in software hardware or a combination of software and hardware. In addition to controlling and executing application specific software operating system can be configured to manage hardware resources including but not limited to input output control file and data management memory management communications controls and provide software services including but not limited to control the execution of other computer programs scheduling and inter process communications.

In biometric client application specific software comprises client SDK and optionally end user application . Client SDK that collects and formats biometric data captured by the capture device e.g. A B and C for transmission to the anonymous sector. The data is formatted into an SOA request. End user application represents application for which the verification is required. Examples of the end user application include facility access e.g. a fingerprint scan opens a door to a restricted area .

Application specific software can also be provided and stored on a non transient storage medium either for distribution or retrieval for execution by the processor when needed.

As an example an individual wishes to become affiliated with said financial organization and as such the organization wishes to ensure said individual has not been previously enrolled the reasons for which could include the desire to avoid duplicity in the system. In this example a biometric client has hardware capable of capturing a plurality of biometrics where the resulting probes are comprise two or more modalities. Furthermore at least one score threshold and at least one quantity threshold are defined within the biometric client and these thresholds are sent to a query router in the anonymous biometric identity management system along with the biometric probes. The query router selects at least one query engine which returns a list of matches. The query router forwards the list of matches back to the organization i.e. via the biometric client where an application can fetch any combination of biographic demographic and financial data the demographic biographic data and displays this information for identify confirmation.

In a second example a law enforcement organization uses a biometric client to capture biometrics relating to an alleged criminal offender. The probe is transmitted to a query router which selects one or more query engines that return a list of tokens for possible matches. The list of tokens is received by the biometric client which obtains biographic information for identity confirmation. In this case past criminal offenders could be previously enrolled into the anonymous sector. In the non anonymous sector biographic information could include data such as images e.g. mugshots aliases and rap sheets. This could be used for example if an alleged perpetrator is arrested so that their identify can be verify or may be biometric information such as DNA which is obtained from a crime scene where the perpetrator is unknown.

In this example an Anonymous Biometric Identification Process similar to the ones embodied in example 1 and example 2 are to be used in an organization. However the organization may wish to associate a plurality of biometric identities with a single token.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments are merely examples of possible implementations. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments without departing from the principles of the present disclosure. For example any organization that determines that the qualities exhibited by one or more systems described in this disclosure including but not limiting itself to the lack of biographic and demographic information exchange over a cloud network token based anonymous biometric identification and distributed anonymous biometric identification engines may implement solutions similar to the invention while maintaining its own biographic identity management system. Additionally modalities other than irises fingerprints facial characteristics and vocal characteristics may be used so long as they may be represented in a biometric template. Note also that the systems described may comprise a plurality of sub systems containing one or more databases in which a plurality of biographic data and demographic data may be stored. Additionally that several combinations of the individual components of the system may fall under the scope of the invention and one or more of the components making up the system may be able to performs the tasks of one or more other components of the system including but not limiting itself to the following examples a single hardware and software system may carry out the functions of both a query router and the query engine a single plugin may be able to process two or more types of biometric modalities biometric capture devices may be able to capture more than one biometric simultaneously biometric clients may generate two or more biometric templates from captured biometrics and functions carried out by the query router may instead by carried out in a biometric client such as sorting. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

