---

title: Apparatus, methods, and articles of manufacture to predict vectored digital subscriber line (DSL) performance gains
abstract: Apparatus, methods and articles of manufacture to predict vectored digital subscriber line (DSL) performance gains are disclosed. A disclosed example method includes determining a model coefficient of a noise-to-margin ratio (NMR) model from performance data measured for a DSL subscriber loop prior to provisioning of vectoring for the DSL subscriber loop, computing, using the model coefficient, a first NMR value with disturbers enabled and a second NMR value with disturbers disabled, and estimating an expected vectoring performance gain for the DSL subscriber loop based on the first and second NMR values.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08649484&OS=08649484&RS=08649484
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 08649484
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121129
---
This patent arises from a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 968 858 entitled APPARATUS METHODS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE TO PREDICT VECTORED DIGITAL SUBSCRIBER LINE DSL PERFORMANCE GAINS and filed on Dec. 15 2010 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure relates generally to digital subscriber line DSL subscriber loops and more particularly to apparatus methods and articles of manufacture to predict vectored DSL performance gains for subscriber loops.

Vectored DSL is an emerging DSL technology that offers significant improvements in achievable transmission rates over copper twisted pair wires. In vectored DSL communication systems a vectoring engine uses collected measurements characterizing crosstalk between a set of subscriber loops to reduce the effects of the crosstalk experienced by those subscriber loops.

Example apparatus methods and articles of manufacture to predict vectored DSL performance gains are disclosed. Installation of vectored digital subscriber line DSL communication systems may introduce operational administrative and or maintenance problems. For example for cost efficiency it may be desirable to install vectoring technology when the vectoring technology can achieve a desired outcome such as a desired return on investment. In other words there may be a tradeoff between expected circuit performance gains and the cost of deploying vectoring technology to achieve those expected performance gains. Thus there may be a benefit to estimating the performance gains that vectoring can achieve prior to deployment of vectoring technology. Examples disclosed herein enable a network operator to quantify the performance gain s that are expected to result if vectoring were deployed on particular subscriber loops in their network s .

A disclosed example method includes determining a model coefficient of a noise to margin ratio NMR model from performance data measured for a DSL subscriber loop prior to provisioning of vectoring for the DSL subscriber loop. The method computes using the model coefficient a first NMR value with disturbers enabled and a second NMR value with disturbers disabled. The method estimates an expected vectoring performance gain for the DSL subscriber loop based on the first and second NMR values.

A disclosed example apparatus includes a modeler and a performance gain estimator. The modeler determines a model coefficient using a least squares analysis of performance data measured for a DSL subscriber loop prior to provisioning of vectoring for the DSL subscriber loop. The performance gain estimator computes using the model coefficient a first NMR value with disturbers enabled and a second NMR value with disturbers disabled and estimates an expected vectoring performance gain for the DSL subscriber loop based on the first and second NMR values.

To provide communication services to the customer premises the example CO of includes any number and or type s of DSL access multiplexer s DSLAM s and or vectored video ready access device s VRAD s and the example customer premises of each include customer premises equipment CPE DSL modems and . The example vectored DSLAM of includes and or implements CO DSL modems not shown for respective ones of the customer premises . CO DSL modems are sometimes referred to as DSLAM ports VRAD ports or simply ports. In the illustrated example of CO DSL modems are implemented on DSLAM linecards which each implement a plurality of CO DSL modems for respective ones of a plurality of CPE DSL modems e.g. the example CPE DSL modems . In the illustrated example each of linecards implements sixty four CO DSL modems.

The example DSLAM the CO DSL modems within the DSLAM and or the example CPE DSL modems of may be implemented for example in accordance with the International Telecommunications Union Telecommunications Sector ITU T G.993.x family of standards for VDSL and or the ITU T G.992.x family of standards for asymmetric DSL ADSL . However the CO DSL modems and or the CPE DSL modems may additionally or alternatively be implemented in accordance with any past present and or future standard specification and or recommendation relating to DSL or its associated technologies.

While in the illustrated example of the DSLAM is implemented at the CO the DSLAM another DSLAM and or a VRAD may additionally or alternatively be implemented at an RT at an SAI and or at any other location between the CO and the customer premises . In such instances a fiber optic cable not shown may be used for example to communicatively couple the remotely located DSLAM VRAD to the CO .

In the illustrated example of the DSLAM provides DSL services to the CPE DSL modems via respective subscriber loops and . Subscriber loops are sometimes referred to as wire pairs telephone lines subscriber lines and or loops. While throughout this disclosure reference is made to the example subscriber loops of a subscriber loop e.g. any of the example subscriber loops used to provide a DSL service to a customer premises e.g. any of the customer premises may include and or be constructed from one or more segments of copper twisted pair wire e.g. any combination of a feeder one F1 cable a feeder two F2 cable a feeder three F3 cable a feeder four F4 cable a distribution cable a drop cable and or customer premises wiring terminals and or distributions points e.g. an RT an SAI a serving terminal a vault a pedestal and or any other type s of wiring distribution points . Such segments of copper twisted pair wire may be spliced and or connected end to end and or may be connected at only one end thereby creating one or more bridged taps. Regardless of the number type s gauge s and or topology of copper twisted pair wires used to construct the example subscriber loops they will be referred to herein in the singular form. Nevertheless it is to be understood that the term subscriber loop may refer to one or more copper twisted pair wire segments and may or may not include one or more bridged taps.

When two subscriber loops e.g. the example subscriber loops are part of the same cable bundle or cable binder the signal transmissions on one subscriber loop for example on the subscriber loop may cause or introduce crosstalk into other subscriber loops of the same binder for example onto the subscriber loop . The amount of crosstalk varies with for example signal transmission level frequency and or length of the binder . Crosstalk may interfere with and or reduce the achievable transmission speed on a particular subscriber loop . As used herein the term disturber refers to a DSL service on a particular subscriber loop that introduces crosstalk into another subscriber loop. As used herein a disturber is enabled when the DSL service on its associated subscriber loop is active or in service and thus is currently introducing crosstalk into another subscriber loop. As used herein a disturber is disabled when the DSL service on its associated subscriber loop is inactive or out of service and thus is not currently introducing crosstalk into another subscriber loop. In the illustrated example the binder includes twenty five copper twisted pair wires.

In some examples a 25 pair cable binder is divided into groupings of 5 wire pairs e.g. pairs 1 5 6 10 etc. . In some examples the 25 pair binder groups are combined into groups of 4. A group of 4 25 pair binders may be referred to as a hundred pair count or a complement with a first binder binder1 containing pairs 1 25 a second binder binder 2 containing pairs 26 50 etc. In some examples a distribution area cable includes multiple complements e.g. complement 1 contains binders 1 4 complement 2 contains binders 5 8 etc. . During manufacture color coded plastic bands may be placed around binders and binder complements to identify the corresponding binder and complement. This color coding facilitates use and re use of wire pair colors in the field. In some examples wire pairs in binders and complements are woven around each other but not woven together during manufacture. The colored plastic band wraps help ensure that a binder group remains intact as far as possible into the distribution area with the pairs keeping their physical co extensiveness as long as is physically possible.

To collect performance data the example DSL communication system of includes an element management system . The example element management system of periodically e.g. weekly daily hourly etc. or aperiodically collects performance data e.g. a maximum attainable data rate an error count an estimated loop length a DSL connection rate a loop attenuation value an error rate a signal to noise ratio a bit allocation a noise margin a DSL modem configuration etc. from the example DSLAM and or the example customer premises DSL modems .

To maintain topological data the example DSL communication system of includes an outside plant records system . The example outside plant records system of maintains stores and or makes accessible an inventory of the equipment and or the interconnections of the equipment of the example DSL communication system including but not limited to assignments of the subscriber loops to DSLAM ports. In some examples the example outside plant records system maintains stores and or records for each subscriber loop a 4 tuple representing a wire center a distribution area a cable and a wire pair.

To proactively monitor the performance of the DSL communication system the example DSL communication system of includes a data acquisition system . Based on a schedule e.g. hourly daily weekly etc. and or when initiated by for example a technician and or maintenance personnel the example data acquisition system of collects attributes such as performance data and configuration parameters via the element management system and stores the collected performance data in an aggregate database . During collection the example data acquisition system associates the collected attributes for a particular subscriber loop with a customer billing access number BAN assigned to that subscriber loop . Example attributes that may be collected include but are not limited to a quiet line noise QLN a current bit rate a plurality of attenuations for respective ones of a plurality of frequencies i.e. an attenuation vector and a status of the line. An example status attribute is a flag having a first value when the associated subscriber loop is out of service and a second value when the loop is in service or active.

To store performance data and topological information the example DSL communication system of includes the example aggregate database . The example aggregate database of stores performance data and outside plant topology information for a plurality of subscriber loops e.g. the example subscriber loops . The performance data and or outside topology information is stored together with a BAN that identifies in some examples uniquely the associated subscriber loop and a timestamp representing when for example the performance data was measured. Any number and or type s of data structures may be used to implement the example aggregate database of . The example aggregate database may be implemented by any number and or type s of volatile and or non volatile memory ies memory device s and or storage device s .

To extract topological information the example DSL communication system of includes a loop information acquisition system . A periodically or periodically e.g. daily the example loop information acquisition system of extracts topology information from the example outside plant records system and stores the extracted topology information in the example aggregate database . While collecting topology information the example loop information acquisition system associates the topological information for a particular subscriber loop with the BAN assigned to that subscriber loop and a timestamp representing for example when the topological information was extracted from the outside plant records system . Using any number and or type s of method s message s protocol s and or script s the example loop information acquisition system of extracts topology information from the example outside plant records system and produces one or more output reports that are parsed and used to obtain the topology information that is stored in the example aggregate database .

To estimate vectored DSL performance gains the example DSL communication system of includes a data analysis system . As explained in more detail below in connection with the example data analysis system of obtains performance data and topology information from the example aggregate database and uses the obtained data and information to construct an NMR estimator model. The example data analysis system uses the NMR estimator model to estimate a first NMR value with crosstalk disturbers disabled and a second NMR value with the crosstalk disturbers enabled. The data analysis system estimates a vectored DSL performance gain by computing a difference between the estimated first and second NMR values. An example manner of implementing the example data analysis system of is described below in connection with .

While an example DSL communication system is illustrated in one or more of the elements processes and or devices illustrated in may be combined divided re arranged omitted eliminated and or implemented in any other way. Further the example element management system the example outside plant records system the example data acquisition system the example aggregate database the example loop information acquisition system and or the example data analysis system may be implemented by hardware software firmware and or any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Thus for example any of the example element management system the example outside plant records system the example data acquisition system the example aggregate database the example loop information acquisition system and or the example data analysis system could be implemented by the example processor platform P of and or one or more circuit s programmable processor s application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s programmable logic device s PLD s and or field programmable logic device s FPLD s field programmable gate array s FPGA s fuses etc. When any apparatus claim of this patent incorporating one or more of these elements is read to cover a purely software and or firmware implementation at least one of the example element management system the example outside plant records system the example data acquisition system the example aggregate database the example loop information acquisition system and or the example data analysis system are hereby expressly defined to include a tangible article of manufacture such as a tangible computer readable medium storing the firmware and or software. Further still the example DSL communication system may include one or more elements processes and or devices in addition to or instead of those illustrated in and or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated elements processes and devices.

As used herein the term tangible computer readable medium is expressly defined to include any type of computer readable medium and to expressly exclude propagating signals. Example computer readable medium include but are not limited to a volatile and or non volatile memory a volatile and or non volatile memory device a compact disc CD a digital versatile disc DVD a floppy disk a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM a programmable ROM PROM an electronically programmable ROM EPROM an electronically erasable PROM EEPROM an optical storage disk an optical storage device magnetic storage disk a magnetic storage device a cache and or any other storage media in which information is stored for any duration e.g. for extended time periods permanently brief instances for temporarily buffering and or for caching of the information and which can be accessed by a processor a computer and or other machine having a processor such as the example processor platform P discussed below in connection with . As used herein the term non transitory computer readable medium is expressly defined to include any type of computer readable medium and to exclude propagating signals.

To generate data suitable for defining an NMR model the example data analysis system of includes the example data manager . For example and with reference to a subscriber loop e.g. one of the example subscriber loops of the data manager of obtains an attenuation vector and estimates an equivalent working length EWL for the subscriber loop from the attenuation vector. In some examples the EWL is expressed in units of 26 gauge copper wire. The example data manager may estimate the EWL by for example curve fitting the attenuation values of the obtained attenuation vector to an attenuation versus frequency equation for 26 gauge copper wire. When bridge taps are detected the example data manager may correct for the presence of the bridge taps when performing the curve fitting.

The example data manager of also obtains from the aggregate database via the database interface one or more NMR values previously measured for the subscriber loop under analysis e.g. one of the subscriber loops . For each collected NMR value the data manager uses the timestamp associated with a currently considered NMR value to obtain associated topology information. The data manager uses the timestamp to identify topology information applicable to the time period during which the currently considered NMR value was measured. The data manager uses the identified topology information to identify other subscriber loops belonging to the same cable binder complement and or distribution area as the presently considered subscriber loop e.g. one of the subscriber loops . For each of the identified subscriber loops the data manager uses the timestamp to determine whether the subscriber loop was out of service or in service during the time period associated with the currently considered NMR. In other words for each NMR value the example data manager determines the number of active subscriber loops that may have contributed crosstalk i.e. a disturber count during the time period that the NMR value was measured. In some examples a subscriber loop is only included in the disturber count when a DSL service is in service on the subscriber loop.

For a presently considered subscriber loop i the example data manager of computes four disturber terms M i 25pair M i other75 M i other cable and M i other DA where M i 25pair represents the number of active DSL circuits in the same binder as i M i other75 represents the number of active DSL circuits in the same complement but not in the same binder M i other cable represents the number of active DSL pairs in the same cable but not in the same complement and M i other DA represents the number of active DSL circuits in the distribution area but not inside the cable as i . The phrase other 75 means the other 75 pairs in the 100 pair complement. The phase other cable means others in the cable but not in the same complement as pair i. The example disturber terms M i 25pair M i other75 M i other cable and M i other DA are mutually exclusive counts and are not arithmetically dependent counts to reduce the stochastic dependence between interferer counts of binder group cable.

In some examples the example data manager of stores the computed EWL estimate and disturber counts in the example aggregate database for subsequent retrieval during for example capacity and or engineering planning relating to the deployment of vectored DSL technologies.

To determine an NMR model the example data analysis system of includes a modeler . The example modeler of uses the obtained NMR values the estimated EWL and the computed disturber counts to estimate the coefficients of the NMR model. In some examples the modeler uses a least squares regression to determine the coefficients of the model. An example NMR model can be expressed mathematically as 

To estimate vectored DSL performance gains the example data analysis system of includes a performance gain estimator . The example performance gain estimator of uses EQN 1 to compute a first NMR value assuming disturbers are enabled and a second NMR value assuming the disturbers are disabled. The example performance gain estimator computes a difference between the first and second NMR values. That difference represents an estimate of the performance gain achievable if vectoring were provisioned for the subscriber loop i. In some examples the example performance gain estimator of stores the estimated vectored DSL performance gain in the example aggregate database for subsequent retrieval during for example capacity and or engineering planning relating to the deployment of vectored DSL technologies.

While a manner of implementing the example data analysis system of is illustrated in one or more of the elements processes and or devices illustrated in may be combined divided re arranged omitted eliminated and or implemented in any other way. Further the example database interface the example data manager the example modeler the example performance gain estimator and or more generally the example data analysis system may be implemented by hardware software firmware and or any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Thus for example any of the example database interface the example data manager the example modeler the example performance gain estimator and or more generally the example data analysis system could be implemented by the example processor platform P of and or one or more circuit s programmable processor s application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s PLD s and or FPLD s FPGA s fuses etc. When any apparatus claim of this patent incorporating one or more of these elements is read to cover a purely software and or firmware implementation at least one of the example database interface the example data manager the example modeler the example performance gain estimator and or more generally the example data analysis system are hereby expressly defined to include a tangible article of manufacture such as a tangible computer readable medium storing the firmware and or software. Further still the example data analysis system may include one or more elements processes and or devices in addition to or instead of those illustrated in and or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated elements processes and devices.

The example process of begins with the example data manager obtaining performance data for a presently considered subscriber loop from the aggregate database via the example database interface block . Using measured attenuation data the data manager computes or estimates the EWL of the presently considered loop block .

The data manager obtains from the aggregate database via the database interface one or more NMR values previously measured for the presently considered subscriber loop e.g. one of the example subscriber loops block . For each collected NMR value the data manager uses the timestamp associated with a currently considered NMR value to obtain associated topology information block . As described above in connection with the data manager uses the obtained topology information to compute the disturber terms M i 25pair M i other75 M i other cable and M i other DA block .

Using the obtained NMR values the estimated EWL and the computed disturber counts the example modeler uses a least squares regression and or analysis to determine and or select the coefficients of the example NMR model of EQN 1 block . The example performance gain estimator of uses EQN 1 to compute a first NMR value assuming disturbers are enabled and a second NMR value assuming the disturbers are disabled block . The performance gain estimator computes a difference between the first and second NMR values that represents an estimate of the performance gain achievable if vectoring were provisioned for the subscriber loop block .

In some examples the example performance gain estimator uses Shannon s Law to estimate a bit rate and or an error rate improvement that may result if the predicted vectored DSL performance gain was achieved in practice block . Control then exits from the example process of .

The processor platform P of the instant example includes at least one programmable processor P. For example the processor P can be implemented by one or more Intel microprocessors from the Pentium family the Itanium family or the XScale family. Of course other processors from other processor families and or manufacturers are also appropriate. The processor P executes coded instructions P and or P present in main memory of the processor P e.g. within a volatile memory P and or a non volatile memory P and or in a storage device P. The processor P may execute among other things the example machine accessible instructions of to estimate the performance gain due to vectoring. Thus the coded instructions P P may include the example instructions of .

The processor P is in communication with the main memory including the non volatile memory P and the volatile memory P and the storage device P via a bus P. The volatile memory P may be implemented by Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory SDRAM Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM RAMBUS Dynamic Random Access Memory RDRAM and or any other type of RAM device. The non volatile memory P may be implemented by flash memory and or any other desired type of memory device. Access to the memory P and the memory P may be controlled by a memory controller.

The processor platform P also includes an interface circuit P. Any type of interface standard such as an external memory interface serial port general purpose input output an Ethernet interface a universal serial bus USB and or a PCI express interface etc may implement the interface circuit P.

The interface circuit P may also include one or more communication device s P such as a network interface card to facilitate exchange of data packets and or routing information with other nodes servers devices and or routers of a network.

In some examples the processor platform P also includes one or more mass storage devices P to store software and or data. Examples of such storage devices P include a floppy disk drive a hard disk drive a solid state hard disk drive a CD drive a DVD drive and or any other solid state magnetic and or optical storage device. The example storage devices P may be used to for example store the example coded instructions of and or the aggregate database of .

Although certain example methods apparatus and articles of manufacture have been described herein the scope of coverage of this patent is not limited thereto. On the contrary this patent covers all systems methods apparatus and articles of manufacture falling within the scope of the claims of this patent.

