---

title: System and method for optimized access messaging in a wireless network
abstract: A method is provided for managing wireless network traffic that includes designating a first resource block of a macro base station and a second resource block of a small cell base station for access by a physical random access channel (PRACH). The method further includes designating a first random access subframe associated with the first resource block and a second random access subframe associated with the second resource block for access by a random access channel message. The first random access subframe has a first allocation of random access signatures that are configured to receive a plurality of random access requests. The second random access subframe is time-aligned with the first random access subframe and has a second allocation of random access signatures that are configured to receive a plurality of random access requests.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09167603&OS=09167603&RS=09167603
owner: Fujitsu Limited
number: 09167603
owner_city: Kawasaki-shi
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20121219
---
The present disclosure relates generally to wireless networks and specifically to systems and methods for optimized access messaging in a wireless network.

Various wireless technologies e.g. 3G 4G 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE LTE Advanced LTE A Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX etc. allow for the use of small base stations generally referred to herein as small cells e.g. femto base stations or pico base stations in WiMAX or Home Node B HeNB pico base stations or generically designated as small cell base stations in 3GPP LTE specifications . The user or a wireless service provider s technician installs the small cell in the user s home or office to improve the user experience. The small cell s backhaul connection to the wireless service provider s network is provided via the user s network access e.g. digital subscriber line DSL or provided by the wireless carrier . The small cell exhibits a similar wireless behavior e.g. uses the same air interface protocol as the wireless service provider s other base stations e.g. macro base stations mBSs and or relay stations . The small cell may allow for the handover from the mBS to the small cell to be accomplished without the user noticing e.g. similar to the handover from one mBS to another . Small cells may be useful in machine to machine M2M communications that are engineered to communicate with little or no human support. M2M communications in large industrial or machine residential networks may require the connection of over 30 000 machine User Equipment UE devices per mBS. Small cells may be able to assist in offloading a main cell s excess data traffic including M2M traffic thus increasing the overall cell throughput and improving the user experience. Small cells are expected to enable significant increases in the overall throughput of a macro cell and thus increasing the overall spectrum efficiency of the respective macro cell.

In accordance with one or more embodiments of the present disclosure a method is provided for managing wireless network traffic that includes designating a first resource block of a macro base station and a second resource block of a small cell base station for access by a physical random access channel PRACH . The method further includes designating a first random access subframe associated with the first resource block for access by a random access channel message. The first random access subframe has a first allocation of random access signatures that are configured to receive a plurality of random access requests. The method additionally includes designating a second random access subframe associated with the second resource block for access by a random access channel message. The second random access subframe is time aligned with the first random access subframe and has a second allocation of random access signatures that are configured to receive a plurality of random access requests.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present disclosure one or more non transitory computer readable media is provided embodying logic that when executed by a processor is configured to perform operations that include designating a first resource block of a macro base station and a second resource block of a small cell base station for access by a PRACH. The operations further include designating a first random access subframe associated with the first resource block for access by a random access channel message. The first random access subframe has a first allocation of random access signatures that are configured to receive a plurality of random access requests. The operations additionally include designating a second random access subframe associated with the second resource block for access by a random access channel message. The second random access subframe is time aligned with the first random access subframe and has a second allocation of random access signatures that are configured to receive a plurality of random access requests.

The object and advantages of the invention will be realized and attained at least by the features elements and combinations particularly pointed out in the claims. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

mBS may be configured to communicate with one or more endpoints using wireless communication via one or more ports not expressly shown . As used herein mBS may refer to a transmission site a remote transmission site a Radio Element Control an Evolved Node B eNB a Baseband Unit a Radio Element and or a Remote Radio Head RRH . mBS may include any combination of hardware software embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware to implement any number of communication protocols that allow for wired or wireless exchange of information in network . mBS may be operable to send control messages and data traffic to endpoints . mBS may use any suitable technologies or protocols e.g. Common Public Radio Interface CPRI to communicate with other mBS . In some embodiments mBS may coordinate with other mBS to communicate jointly with endpoint .

In some embodiments of the present disclosure mBS may be installed on a mobile wireless transmission tower such as those operated by mobile wireless service providers. For example mBS may be configured to transmit mobile wireless data that complies with the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP protocols. In the example illustrated in mBS may be configured to transmit and or receive wireless data that complies with the Long Term Evolution LTE standard. In the same or alternative embodiments mBS may be configured to transmit and or receive wirelessly data that complies with other protocols including later releases of 3GPP or other fourth or later generation protocols such as LTE Advanced LTE A .

mBS may also be coupled to any network or combination of networks capable of transmitting receiving and processing signals data and or messages supporting web pages e mail text chat voice over IP VoIP instant messaging and or any other suitable application in order to provide services and support data transmissions to endpoints . For example mBS may be coupled to one or more local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs metropolitan area networks MANs enabling the connection to global distributed networks such as the Internet or any other form of wireless or wired networking. As an example mBS may be coupled to a core infrastructure network which may include server via a LAN .

Network may also include one or more and one or more small cell base stations scBS collectively referred to as scBS . scBSs may be small cell evolved Node Bs seNBs Home evolved Node B HeNB and or any other suitable devices. In some embodiments of the present disclosure scBS may be any electronic device configured to switch and or aggregate mobile wireless data for communication among other devices. In some embodiments of the present disclosure scBS may include memory and one or more processors configured to execute instructions stored on that memory.

scBS may provide wireless coverage and services for any suitable number of endpoints over a geographic area such as overlaid small cell OSC collectively referred to as OSCs . OSC may be a small cell associated with scBS that may be located wholly or partially within the coverage area of mBS e.g. cell . In some embodiments of the present disclosure OSC may also overlap with multiple neighboring cells . OSC may have any suitable coverage shape such as a circular shape as depicted in . OSC may have any suitable size. For example OSC may have coverage radius of approximately half of a kilometer. Although OSCs may be shown in as having approximately the same size each OSC may be of any suitable size. In some embodiments of the present disclosure it may be necessary or desirable for a home or business to have one or more OSC deployed throughout the home or business. In such a manner a mobile wireless provider may optimize the coverage of the mobile wireless network indoors or to poor coverage areas which might be more difficult and or expensive to reach via conventional mobile wireless coverage techniques.

In some embodiments of the present disclosure scBS may communicate with the mobile wireless provider s core network and or mBS over a link that may be a wireline link such as digital subscriber line DSL optical fiber or other appropriate wireline link or an appropriate wireless link. In some embodiments of the present disclosure this may be beneficial to both the user and the wireless service provider. In some embodiments of the present disclosure OSC may be a co channel OSC that operates within mBS broadband spectrum by reusing the same frequency as mBS .

Although reference is made above and below with reference to to LTE as the mobile wireless technology other technologies standards and or protocols may be implemented without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example the systems and methods described herein may also be applied to worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX as another orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM mobile wireless technology communication or other suitable wireless technology.

When OSC is active the user the user equipment the radio access network or some combination thereof may be able to offload some portion of the mobile wireless data traffic onto the local area network for communication back to the core network. This may have the benefit of lowering the traffic level on mBS as well as improving performance for the user. In some configurations of scBS this data offload process may be performed by a number of different approaches.

Endpoints may be any electronic device configured to receive and or transmit wireless data messages and or signals to and from other endpoints mBS and or scBS . For example endpoint may be a mobile wireless telephone tablet computer laptop computer desktop computer PDA mobile wireless modem VoIP phone wireless measurement device wireless sensor wireless sensor embedded in a machine and or other device configured to communicate with mBS and or scBS . Endpoints may provide data or network services to a human and or machine user through any suitable combination of hardware software embedded in a computer readable medium real time processing system and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware . Endpoints may also include unattended or automated systems gateways other intermediate components or other devices that may send or receive data messages and or signals. Various types of information may be sent to or from endpoints . As an example endpoint may send identification data and status data to mBS and or scBS .

In some embodiments machine to machine M2M communications also known as Machine Type Communications MTC may utilize endpoints in the form of machine user equipment M UE . M2M networks may have traffic patterns significantly different from human mobile traffic. For example sensor networks in industrial applications smart grid meters in residential utility applications and or smart home networks may include large numbers of machine UEs. As another example in some large industrial applications network may be required to accommodate large numbers of machine UEs e.g. up to more than approximately 30 000 devices per cell . Network may include only machine UEs in the case of a M2M network or network may be a mix of human mobile devices such as mobile wireless handsets and machine UEs in a human machine network. Further machine UEs may exhibit infrequent and or bursty communication and traffic patterns.

As described in more detail below with reference to mBS and or scBS may be configured to execute instructions performing the optimization routines discussed below. In other configurations responsibilities for various portions may be distributed among the components of network .

In some embodiments of the present disclosure a concentrator may be utilized that may be in communication with mBS server scBS and or any other suitable equipment. Concentrator may include a processor system memory ports and or any other suitable components. Concentrator may be configured to gather messages from all endpoints within cell or OSC . Concentrator may be configured to address the messages received from endpoints e.g. add headers to forward the messages onto mBS server scBS and or any other suitable destination. Further concentrator may be embedded in or co located with mBS .

Although illustrates example network as having one mBS multiple endpoints and four scBSs it should be understood that these examples are provided to aid in understanding and any number of any given devices and or sub systems may be present in a given configuration without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. It should also be understood that the number of any given component may change over time. For example the number and identity of endpoints present within range of a given scBS may change over time as users move in and out of scBS coverage.

Further although illustrates only one topology of the system comprising mBS endpoints and scBSs a number of such iterations may be present within network without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example there may be a plurality of OSCs present within range of a given cell . In other embodiments network may not include mBS . Further mBS and scBS may be configured to communicate with neighboring mBS and scBS .

System may allow for multiple input multiple output MIMO transmission where multiple antennas are used for transmitting and receiving wireless messages and or signals. Additionally system may be configured to perform Coordinated Multi point Processing CoMP to coordinate and combine the transmission of messages and or signals used in MIMO transmission. The CoMP processing may perform DL CoMP transmission in which multiple mBS jointly communicate with endpoints and or multiple endpoints communicate with mBS .

Endpoints may communicate with mBS using wireless communication via air interface using one or more antenna ports . For example endpoint may communicate with mBS via air interface using antenna ports and . Endpoint may communicate with mBS via air interface using antenna ports and . Endpoints may communicate with mBS using any of a variety of different wireless technologies including but not limited to LTE and LTE A protocol as defined in the 3GPP Release 11 or beyond. In some embodiments of the present disclosure endpoints may coordinate with one more other endpoints to communicate jointly with mBS . In such embodiments endpoints may coordinate with each other to communicate with mBS using a MIMO transmission reception scheme where multiple transmitting antenna ports may equip different endpoints while one or more transmitting receiving antenna ports are located at the mBS . For example endpoints may communicate with mBS using a DL and UL CoMP schemes backed by MIMO transmission reception as defined in 3GPP standards. During such a MIMO transmission endpoint may wirelessly communicate using multiple layered data streams to mBS via one or more wireless connections between antenna ports and one or more antenna port of mBS .

The components of endpoints and mBS may comprise any suitable physical form configuration number type and or layout. As an example and not by way of limitation endpoint and or mBS may comprise an embedded real time processing system computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate endpoint and or mBS may include one or more computer systems or be embedded in a multiple processor system be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.

In the depicted embodiment endpoints and and mBS each include their own respective processor system and memory system and storage and interface and and bus and . Although a particular wireless communications system is depicted having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable wireless communications system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement. For simplicity similar components of endpoints and mBS will be discussed together. However it is not necessary for these devices to have the same components or the same type of components or be configured in the same manner. For example processor system may be implemented as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or System on Chip SoC .

Processor systems and may include one or more microprocessors controllers or any other suitable computing device resource or combination of hardware software and or encoded logic based on a real time operating system RTOS operable to provide either alone or in conjunction with other components e.g. memory systems and respectively wireless networking functionality. Such functionality may include supporting various wireless features discussed herein. For example processor system may be configured to analyze and or process data messages and or signals communicated between mBS and endpoints via channels . Further processor systems and of endpoints and may be configured to analyze messages signals and or data communicated from mBS via channels .

In some embodiments processor systems and may include hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program and or real time instructions supported by a RTOS. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor systems and may retrieve or fetch instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory systems or respectively or storage or respectively decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory systems or respectively or storage or respectively.

In some embodiments processor systems and may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor systems and including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor systems and may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs and or multiple layered buffers. Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory systems or respectively or storage or respectively and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor systems or respectively. Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory systems or respectively or storage or respectively for instructions executing at processor systems or respectively to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor systems or for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor systems or or for writing to memory systems or respectively or storage or respectively or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor systems or . The multiple layered buffers may speed up virtual address translations for processor systems or . In some embodiments processor systems and may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. Depending on the embodiment processor systems and may include any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor systems and may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor include one or more processor systems or any other suitable processor.

Memory systems or may be any form of volatile or non volatile memory including without limitation magnetic media optical media random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory removable media or any other suitable local or remote memory component or components. In some embodiments memory systems or may include random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate. Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM or any other suitable type of RAM or memory. Memory systems or may include one or more memories or respectively where appropriate. Memory systems or may store any suitable data or information utilized by endpoints or mBS respectively including software embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware . In some embodiments memory systems or may include main memory for storing instructions for processor systems or respectively to execute or data for processor systems or to operate on. In some embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs may reside between processor systems or and memory systems or respectively and facilitate accesses to memory systems or requested by processor systems or respectively.

As an example and not by way of limitation endpoints or mBS may load instructions and or addresses from storage or respectively or another source such as for example another computer system another base station or a remote transmission site to memory systems or respectively. Processor systems or may then load the instructions from memory systems or respectively to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor systems or may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor systems or may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor systems or may then write one or more of those results to memory systems or respectively. In some embodiments processor systems or may execute only instructions in one or more internal registers and or internal caches or in memory systems or respectively as opposed to storage or respectively or elsewhere and may operate only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory systems or respectively as opposed to storage or respectively or elsewhere .

In some embodiments storage or may include mass storage for data instructions and or addresses. As an example and not by way of limitation storage or may include a hard disk drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage or may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. In some embodiments storage or may be non volatile solid state memory. In some embodiments storage or may include read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. Storage or may take any suitable physical form and may comprise any suitable number or type of storage. Storage or may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor systems or respectively and storage or respectively where appropriate.

In some embodiments interfaces or may include hardware encoded software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between endpoints mBS any networks any network devices and or any other computer systems. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface or may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network and or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network.

In some embodiments interfaces or comprise one or more radios or radio transceivers coupled to one or more antenna ports . In such an embodiment interface or receives digital data that is to be sent out to wireless devices such as mBS via a wireless connection. The radio transceivers may convert the digital data into a radio signal having the appropriate center frequency bandwidth transmission power and or other suitable interface parameters. Similarly the radio transceivers may convert radio signals received via one or more receiving antennas into digital data to be processed by for example processor systems or respectively. Interface of mBS may be configured to perform similar operations via processor system and antenna port .

Depending on the embodiment interface or may be any type of interface suitable for any type of network for which communications system is used. As an example and not by way of limitation communications system may be coupled to a supporting core network an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example communications system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network an LTE network an LTE A network a mobile wireless telephone and or data network for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or any other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Endpoints and mBS may include any suitable interface or respectively for any one or more of these networks where appropriate.

In some embodiments interface or may include one or more interfaces for one or more I O devices. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and endpoints and or mBS . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. Some embodiments may include any suitable type and or number of I O devices and any suitable type and or number of interface or for them. Where appropriate interface or may include one or more drivers enabling processor systems or respectively to drive one or more of these I O devices. Interface or may be coupled to radio transceivers where appropriate.

Bus or may be single or multiple threaded and may include any suitable combination of hardware software embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware to couple components of endpoint and mBS to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus or may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or any other suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus or may include any number type and or configuration of bus or where appropriate. In some embodiments one or more buses or which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor systems or respectively to memory systems or respectively. Bus or may include one or more memory buses and may be specialized and dedicated multi threaded busses.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more tangible computer readable storage media possessing structures. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive a flash memory card a flash memory drive or any other suitable tangible computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate.

Some embodiments may include one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In some embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor systems or such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory systems or one or more portions of storage or or a combination of these where appropriate. In some embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In some embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In some embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody encoded software.

Herein reference to encoded software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts one or more RTOS routines or source code and vice versa where appropriate that have been stored or encoded in a computer readable storage medium. In some embodiments encoded software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs stored or encoded in a computer readable storage medium. Some embodiments may use any suitable encoded software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages stored or encoded in any suitable type or number of computer readable storage media. In some embodiments encoded software may be expressed as source code or object code. In some embodiments encoded software is expressed in a RTOS programming higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In some embodiments encoded software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In some embodiments encoded software is expressed in JAVA. In some embodiments encoded software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML real time OS RTOS or other suitable markup language.

Accordingly the above mentioned components of endpoints and mBS may enable endpoints and mBS to perform operations such as joint data link transmission according to the present disclosure. Modifications additions or omissions may be made to without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. For example any of the options or features described herein may be utilized in combination with the illustrated embodiments of and or any number of the other options or features also described herein as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. As another example mBS may include one or more real time physical PHY layer processors which may be further connected to one or more PHY media access control MAC co processors coupled to a fast access RAM and a permanent ROM memory. The real time PHY processor may be configured to process a plurality of messages stored into one or more subframes received from one or more endpoints .

A network access request e.g. message and or user packet request transmitted by endpoints may be sent using a Random Access Channel RACH backed by a Physical Random Access Channel PRACH . A PRACH may be a shared channel used for initial network access between endpoint and mBS and or scBS . A PRACH may also be utilized for communication of unscheduled access related messages such as when endpoint exits sleep mode loses power attempts to connect to the network or executes a handover. Thus for example the PRACH may be used to transmit a last gasp message LGM mass scale event triggered MSET device identification and or other message from endpoints to mBS and or scBS across and or utilizing an LTE LTE A network or other wireless network. During M2M mass event scenarios e.g. after a large scale power outage scenario impacting most or all endpoints connected to mBS and or scBS the related network and particularly PRACH may be overloaded when the mass event resolves e.g. power is returned. Additionally network may be unable to identify particular endpoints that are involved in the mass event. When large numbers of endpoints attempt to access the network simultaneously the access channel including a RACH PRACH may be overloaded. If the PRACH becomes overloaded when then messages sent from endpoints attempting to reconnect to mBS and or scBS may collide and some or most endpoints may be unable to connect to network .

The PRACH may be a specific access channel used for PHY layer messages. Further the PRACH may be based on a Zadoff Chu ZC function. A ZC function may exhibit auto correlation cross correlation and constant amplitude zero autocorrelation CAZAC properties. A ZC function may have a set number of total roots N. For example in an LTE implementation the ZC function may have eight hundred and thirty nine roots or N 839. The particular root for a message may be designated as n. In operation for example if a particular endpoint transmits over a PRACH with a root of five hundred and eleven e.g. n 511 then a correlation decoder on mBS and or scBS may detect only noise during scanning until it reaches root five hundred and eleven where mBS and or scBS may detect a voltage spike or needle like waveform that may indicate a message from that particular endpoint . Thus PRACH protocol may identify the respective endpoint . Additionally a cyclically time shifted ZC root may exhibit the same auto correlation properties as the main ZC root N . A time shift may be designated as N.

Additionally in digital communications such as communication over a air interface e.g. a wireless network and or network of random access signature also referred to as signatures may be a sequence of randomly selected bit sequences out of a pool of known bit sequences included in random access subframes to synchronize endpoints in time and frequency with mBS and or scBS . mBS and or scBS may utilize or process random access signatures when receiving access transmission requests from endpoint . The pool of access sequences may be known to the endpoint which may select randomly one of the random access signatures to transmit to the base station. Further in one embodiment one random access subframe discussed with reference to below may include up to sixty four signatures. In some embodiments of the present disclosure as endpoints communicate with mBS up to sixty four random access signatures may be processed by mBS and or scBS within one random access subframe. A set of random access signatures may be termed a random access set or a signature set and may correspond to one ZC root and or one or more Nzc Nsignatures in the case of scBS .

In some embodiments of the present disclosure certain subframes on the resource blocks designated for PRACH access may be designated for particular types of access. As an example in allocation scBS may designate resource block subframe three for PRACH access and the remaining subframes for standard data traffic. As another example mBS may designated resource block subframes zero two four six and eight for PRACH access and the remaining subframes for standard data traffic. Further scBS may designate resource block subframe one for PRACH access and the remaining subframes for standard data traffic. In a co channel OSC configuration as discussed in detail below with reference to in which all resource blocks modulate the same frequency carrier PRACH subframes may not be time aligned for all mBS and scBSs . In this case endpoints attempting to access scBS resource block on subframe three may interfere with a data transmission being received on subframe three of neighboring mBS subject to an interference path as discussed below with reference to shown as resource block . As another example subframe three of resource block may be allocated for user data traffic. In this case a random access signal may be transmitted over subframe three of resource block by an endpoint intended for a neighboring base station e.g. scBS or . The random access signal may interfere with data signals received on the same subframe of resource block by scBS e.g. subframe three and may possibly render the data unusable. Accordingly time alignment of PRACH subframes may support autocorrelation and cross correlation of a PRACH ZC function. Time alignment may enable simultaneous operation across the same random access subframes as long as different sets of ZC roots or signatures are enabled.

In some embodiments of the present disclosure each cell may be configured in a co channel OSC topology such that each OSC may utilize its own random access signature set. For simplicity it may be assumed that each OSC may have a radius of approximately one half of a kilometer. Each OSC may employ one PRACH signature set. Depending on the number of OSCs in each cell the entire amount of random access signature sets may be used. Use of the entire pool of signature sets across a cluster of cells with an external radius smaller than the equivalent PRACH immunity radius may lead to PRACH signature pool depletion and increased RACH message collisions. For example the number of ZC roots may be calculated by first assuming that a single mBS may require three ZC roots based on radius of approximately three kilometers. Each scBS may require one ZC root based on a radius of approximately one half of a kilometer. Thus ten OSCs located in cell may require ten ZC roots. Accordingly the total amount of ZC roots for an approximately three kilometer cell based on one mBS and ten OSCs may be thirteen. Additionally cell may be configured to employ a set of three co located mBSs in which each mBS covers approximately one hundred and twenty degrees of the overall cell coverage area. Therefore the total required ZC roots per cell may be thirty nine. As noted previously there may be a total of eight hundred and thirty nine ZC roots. Thus reuse of ZC roots may occur in a cluster grouping of approximately twenty one cells e.g. 21 39 819 ZC roots which is less than eight hundred and thirty nine.

In some embodiments of the present disclosure cluster may be divided into clusters also called tiers as illustrated in that may be based in part on the immunity radius and or the average number of OSC per cell . One cluster of cells may correspond to a center cell having a radius of R and directly adjacent similarly sized cells . Cluster may have a total radius of approximately 2R. In the current example if radius is approximately three kilometers then the radius of cluster may be approximately six kilometers. A second cluster may have a radius of approximately 3.7R and a third cluster may have a corresponding radius of 8R.

In some embodiments of the present disclosure for example each cell may include approximately sixteen OSCs operating in a co channel topology. The overall pool of PRACH signatures e.g. ZC roots may be exhausted across cluster of cells with radius or approximately 3.7R. In this example the equivalent cluster of cells comprise approximately fourteen cells e.g. 19 signatures 3 co located mBS 57 ZC roots and 839 max ZC roots 57 ZC roots is approximately fourteen. Based on the following mathematical relationship MaxINT 839 57 14. Thus for sixteen OSCs per cell operating in a co channel topology the cell cluster size may be approximately fourteen. This cell cluster size may equate to a PRACH immunity radius of approximately 3.7R or radius .

As another example each cell may include approximately thirty two OSCs operating in a co channel topology. The overall pool of PRACH signatures e.g. ZC roots may be exhausted across cluster of cells with radius or approximately 2R. In this example the equivalent cluster of cells comprised approximately nine cells e.g. 35 signatures 3 co located mBS 105 ZC roots and 839 max ZC roots 105 ZC roots is approximately eight based on the following relationship MaxINT 839 105 8. Thus for thirty two OSCs per cell operating in a co channel topology the cell cluster size may be approximately eight. This cell cluster size may equate to a PRACH immunity radius of approximately 2R or radius .

In some embodiments of the present disclosure reuse of the same ZC roots or signatures inside a PRACH Immunity Radius may degrade the ZC auto correlation performance and may cause access delays for endpoints . Thus the available amount of ZC roots may be depleted when co channel OSC topology is employed due to the assignment of one ZC root per OSC in dense OSC topologies. The comparative random access signature pool depletion rate in a co channel configuration may be summarized as shown in the following table 

As noted with reference to the PRACH immunity radius may represent the distance before a random access signature set may have to be reused within the same frequency channel for the same wireless protocol. For example in a configuration such as described in example B. above the PRACH random access signature sets may require reuse after approximately twenty five cells . Thus the PRACH immunity radius may correspond to cluster and radius or approximately 3.7R. As another example a configuration such as described in example D. above the PRACH signature sets may require reuse after only approximately eight cells . Thus the PRACH immunity radius may correspond to cluster and radius or approximately 2R. Accordingly in certain embodiments of the present disclosure the random access signature set depletion rate may be influenced by the number of OSCs installed per cell .

As discussed with reference to some embodiments of the present disclosure may include up to sixty four PRACH signatures per random access subframe. As endpoints communicate with mBS and or scBS sixty four signatures may be processed by mBS and or scBS within one random access subframe. Further a signature of a ZC function may be a specific time shift N for a given ZC root. In some embodiments a LTE PRACH sequence may be built by cyclically shifting a ZC sequence of prime length Nzc defined as 

For a small cell e.g. OSC having a radius of less than approximately 0.79 kilometers one ZC root may have up to sixty four signatures. Under this assumption signature logical indexes may be assigned to a PHY time cyclical shift N value. The signature logical index value may be further used to transport logical messages. The PHY time cyclical shift values N associated with the signature logical indexes may be represented in the table below 

In some embodiments of the present disclosure mBS of cluster may be given the designation Evolved Node B 01 eNB01 and may have a radius of approximately 3.5 kilometers or approximately three kilometers. Each of scBS within each OSCs respectively all located within the coverage of cell may be given the designation eNB01.00 eNB01.07 respectively and may have a radius of less than approximately 0.79 kilometers or approximately 0.5 kilometers. Additionally in some embodiments the sixty four random access signatures employed by mBS may be logically appended to the sixty four signatures shared by scBSs associated with OSCs respectively. Such an allocation may result in a total of one hundred and twenty eight logical indexes. Utilizing one ZC root designated as u 3 for scBS and three ZC roots for mBS designated as u u 1 and u 2 the following time shift assignation may be employed 

Further in some embodiments of the present disclosure when the amount of OSCs per cell is greater than sixteen the amount of random access signatures allocated for all OSCs may be increased from sixty four random access signatures to one hundred and twenty eight random access signatures. In this case the additional signatures may be incorporated by logically adding two ZC roots pool to the ZC root pool required by mBS for cell . For example sixty four signatures may be employed by mBS and an additional one hundred and twenty eight signatures may be employed by OSCs generating a total of one hundred and ninety six random access signatures. In some embodiments of the present disclosure if the number of OSCs per cell is greater than thirty two then the number of ZC roots may be increased in the same manner as described above e.g. by adding one ZC root per sixteen OSCs and corresponding multiples of sixty four signatures. The following table illustrates the possible immunity cluster size and corresponding PRACH immunity radius in a time aligned co channel OSC configuration by sharing of time shifted signatures of one or more ZC roots 

For example in a cluster with sixteen OSCs per cell the cluster size of cells that may be accommodated without having to reuse a PRACH signature set may be approximately sixty nine cells . The corresponding PRACH immunity radius may be approximately 8R.

Thus in some embodiments of the present disclosure improvements may be realized in terms of the required PRACH immunity radius in a time aligned co channel OSC configuration by sharing of time shifted signatures of one or more ZC roots for two or more OSCs shown with reference to Table 4 in contrast to allocating one ZC root per mBS and scBS shown with reference to Table 1 . Accordingly the following improvements may be realized with respect to an optimized allocation shown with reference to Table 4 and a non optimized allocation shown with reference to Table 1 

Method may start and at step a network may designate resource blocks as PRACH resource blocks. For example with reference to mBS may designate resource blocks forty seven through fifty two for PRACH access. Method may proceed to step .

At step the network may designate random access subframes in the PRACH resource blocks as PRACH access subframes. For example with reference to subframe two may be designated as PRACH access by mBS scBS and scBS . Subframe two may be time aligned across all base stations. Additionally for a semi static allocation discussed with reference to OSC with an increased number of users that may demand a higher access capability there may be PRACH subframes that may be assigned for particular times of the day or may be assigned dynamically as the number of endpoints attempting access increases or decreases. Method may proceed to step .

At step one or more ZC roots may be designated for mBS access. For example a first set of three ZC roots e.g. three sets of sixty four random access signatures may be designated for co located mBS within cell with a radius of approximately three kilometers as discussed with reference to . Method may proceed to step .

At step it may be determined if there are less than sixteen scBSs in a cell. If there are less than sixteen scBSs then method may proceed to step . At step an additional ZC root or random access signature set may be defined for scBS transmissions. For example a second set of sixty four signatures may be designated for sharing among scBSs within cell as discussed with reference to . Further if at step it is determined there are sixteen or more scBSs in a cell then method may proceed to step and two or more ZC roots or random access signature sets may be designated for sharing among scBSs within the coverage area of cell . If there are more than thirty one OSCs per cell three ZC roots may be shared among these OSCs . Method may proceed to step .

At step a set of ZC root cyclic shift signatures may be defined for each scBS. The definition may depend in part on the expected cell radius of the respective scBS. For example with reference to and Tables 3 and 4 a ZC root cyclic shift may be associated with each OSC . Method may proceed to step .

At step the network may detect a transmission on the PRACH from an endpoint such as endpoint . At step the base station receiving the transmission may determine if the transmission is a RACH message. If the message is a RACH message the base station may process the transmission on a subframe at step . For example mBS may process the RACH message on a designated PRACH access subframe such as subframe two of resource block shown in . Method may then proceed back to step . If the detected message is not a RACH message then method may proceed to step .

At step the base station may determine if the message is a result of a PRACH collision. If the message is the result of a PRACH collision method may return to step and recalculate and re designate the amount of PRACH resources required due to the increased network access demand. If the message is not the result of a PRACH collision then the base station may receive the message on a data subframe e.g. a subframe not designated for PRACH access at step . Method may then proceed back to step .

All examples and conditional language recited herein are intended for pedagogical objects to aid the reader in understanding the invention and the concepts contributed by the inventor to furthering the art and are construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited examples and conditions. Although embodiments of the present inventions have been described in detail it should be understood that various changes substitutions and alterations could be made hereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

