---

title: Server and method of providing server-based car security service, car device and method of using server-based car security service, user device and method of using server-based car security service
abstract: A server-based car security service provides for image and position information to be provided to the server. The server uses the image information to make an authorization determination with respect to the current user. When the user is determined by the server to be an unauthorized user, the server alerts the owner or primary user of the car by sending the alert to a remote user device. The user device displays the image of the current user, and the owner has the opportunity to indicate whether the user is actually an unauthorized user or whether the determination at the server was a misrecognition error. When the user is unauthorized, the owner can request real-time monitoring of the car's position, and also the image inside the car, as well as an outside-of-the-car image.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09544305&OS=09544305&RS=09544305
owner: SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO., LTD.
number: 09544305
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20120130
---
This application claims the benefit of Korean Patent Application No. 10 2011 0008961 filed on Jan. 28 2011 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office the disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.

Recently machine to machine M2M related techniques and services have been receiving more attention. M2M technology refers to a novel network infrastructure. M2M allows a network infrastructure consisting of wide band networks such as a mobile communication or a WiBro network and an Internet addressing system to expand or associate with areas between a human and an object or areas between an object and an object. M2M is capable of conveniently sensing and transmitting the objects data by using the mobility of the object. This secures the expandability of a network at low cost. M2M technology is being actively researched and developed by mobile network operators using communication networks and IT systems due to its business potential as a new profit source.

According to an exemplary embodiment there is provided a method of providing a server based car security service of a car by using a server the method comprising receiving at the server current user image information obtained by capturing from a car device an image of a current user of a car determining at the server whether the current user of the current user image information is an authorized user based on authorized user information of the car registered to the server and transmitting current use information of the car including the current user image information of the car to a user device of a main user of the car based on a determination about the authorized user by the server.

According to another exemplary embodiment there is provided a method of using a car security service of a car device receiving a server based car security service the method comprising generating current user image information of a car by using a camera mounted in the car receiving a satellite signal indicating a current position of the car and generating position information including GPS information or a current map image about the current position of the car and transmitting to the server at least one of the current user image information and the position information from the car device wherein the current use information of the car including at least one of the current user image information and the position information is transmitted from the server to the user device of a main user of the car.

According to another exemplary embodiment there is provided a method for a user device receiving a server based car security service to use a car security service by the method comprising receiving from the server current use information related to the car including current user image information from the car wherein the current use information related to the car is transmitted by the server based on a result of comparing current user image information obtained by capturing an image of a current user of the car and received by the server from the car device with authorized user information of the car registered to the server.

According to another exemplary embodiment there is provided a server providing a car security service comprising a communication unit communicating with a car device and the main user device of the main user a current user image information receiving unit through which the server receives current user image information obtained by capturing an image of a current user of the car which is received from the car device an authorized user determining unit with which the server determines whether or not the current user as indicated by the current user image information is an authorized user based on authorized user information relating to the car registered to the server and a current use information transmitting unit with which the server transmits the current use information of the car including the current user image information of the car to the user device of the main user of the car based on the determination about the authorized user.

According to another exemplary embodiment there is provided a car device providing a server based car security service comprising a current user image information generating unit that generates current user image information of a car by using a camera mounted in or on the car a position information generating unit that receives a satellite signal indicating a current position of the car and generates position information including GPS information and or a current map image representing a current position of the car and a current use information transmitting unit transmitting at least one of the current user image information and the position information to the server wherein the current use information about the car includes at least one of the current user image information and the position information is transmitted from the server to the user device of a main user of the car.

According to another exemplary embodiment there is provided a user device that is provided with a server based car security service the user device comprising a user input unit that responds to a user input to transmit a security request with respect to a car device to the server a current car use information receiving unit that receives current use information including current user image information of the car a screen outputting unit that outputs an image received from the server on a screen and a car security request transmitting unit that transmits the security request based on the user input to the server wherein the current use information is transmitted by the server based on a result of comparing current user image information obtained by capturing an image of a current user of the car which is received by the server from the car device with authorized user information of the car registered to the server.

According to another exemplary embodiment there is provided a computer readable recording medium having embodied thereon a program for executing the method of providing a car security service by using a server.

According to another exemplary embodiment there is provided a computer readable recording medium having embodied thereon a program for executing the method of using a car security service of a car device.

According to another exemplary embodiment there is provided a computer readable recording medium having embodied thereon a program for executing the method of using a car security service by a user device.

The system for providing a server based car security service includes a car device a server and a user device . The server relays data between the user device of a main user of the car and the car device . A server based car security service according to an exemplary embodiment may be provided for cars linked with the car device . Herein the main user of the car may be the owner of the car or a user who is the person who most frequently drives the car.

The car device may be any wireless or wired device that can be mounted to or linked to the car such as a navigation device or a black box for a vehicle. The car device includes a communication module for communicating with the server . For example the car device may employ a communication module that supports 3G or Wi Fi wireless communication for 3G or Wi Fi based wireless communication with the server .

The car device may include a camera module to capture an image of a current state of the car. Alternatively the car device may include an external camera connecting module to obtain an image that is captured by interacting with an external camera that is mounted to the car. That is the car device may use any camera that is either mounted on the car or is capable of capturing an image of the inside or outside of the car. Hereinafter a camera used by the car device will be referred to as a car camera. 

The car device may include a position information obtaining module for obtaining current position information of the car. For example the car device may include a GPS information generating module. A GPS information generating module generates GPS information by receiving a position signal of the car from GPS satellites. The GPS information generating module may also generate GPS information from an external GPS device connecting module that obtains the GPS information about the car s position by interacting with an external GPS device. Here an external GPS device does not mean that the GPS devices outside of the car it just means that the GPS device need not necessarily be an integral part of the module. For example the car device could take advantage of a GPS device previously installed in the car.

The car device may include a current user image information generating unit a position information generating unit and a current use information transmitting unit .

When the car device senses that the car is being used the current user image information generating unit may obtain an image of the current user of the car. The position information generating unit may generate current position information such as GPS information about the current position of the car. The current use information transmitting unit may transmit the image of the current user of the car generated by the current user image information generating unit and the current position information generated by the position information generating unit to the server . Also if the current user image information generating unit obtains an image of the outside of the car the current use information transmitting unit may transmit the car outside image to the server . The server may include a communication unit a current user image information receiving unit an authorized user determining unit and a current use information transmitting unit .

The communication unit of the server may perform wired or wireless IP communication with the car device or the user device . The current user image information receiving unit may receive current user image information from the car device via the communication unit .

The authorized user determining unit may store authorized user information about registered users who are allowed to use the car. The authorized user information may include information about at least one registered person including the main user of the car.

The authorized user determining unit may determine whether a current user of the car is an authorized user by reading the current user image information of the car output from the current user image information receiving unit . Once the authorized user determining unit determines that the current user is not an authorized user of the car the authorized user determining unit may transmit a notification message to the user device notifying that the car is being used by someone who is not registered as an authorized user.

The current use information transmitting unit may transmit to the user device current car use information including the current position information of the car which is received from the car device and or the current user image information and or the car outside image via the communication unit .

The user device may include a current car use information receiving unit a screen outputting unit a user input unit and a security request transmitting unit . The user device may include a machine to machine M2M communication based device or a mobile communication terminal or the like which is capable of communicating data not only via the server but also with other types of devices. The user device may include at least one device used by the main user.

The current car use information receiving unit and the security request transmitting unit may support 3G or Wi Fi wireless communication to perform 3G or Wi Fi wireless communication with the server 3G or Wi Fi data communication via IP access.

The current car use information receiving unit may receive the current user image information related to the car from the server and the screen outputting unit may render the current user image information so as to display the current user image on a display screen of the user device .

The user input unit may receive from the user an indication that the current user image is an incorrectly recognized image. The user input may also constitute a request to register an additional user which may require registration of the current user image information even though the current user of the car is not yet registered as an authorized user. The user input may also indicate a request to correct the authorized user information. Moreover the user input may ask to determine that the current user is a non authorized user and to execute a warning mode.

When a user input is transmitted by the user input unit the security request transmitting unit may transmit to the server a recheck request in response to an indication of a mistaken recognition of the current user image it may transmit an additional registration request so as to add the current user image information as authorized user information it may also transmit a correction request to correct the authorized user information it may further transmit a request to execute a warning mode.

In response to the recheck request for the current user image and the additional registration request by the user device the current user image information may be used as learning data by the authorized user determining unit of the server . In response to a request to execute a warning mode by the user device the server may continuously monitor the current position information from the car device and transmit the same to the user device . The screen outputting unit of the user device may continuously render the current position information of the car and display the same on the display screen so that the main user of the car can trace the current position of the car.

According to the system for providing a server based car security service the main user of the car may be provided with car security service by the server taking advantage of the car device which can be linked to a car camera and is capable of communicating with the server . This system does not require and is separate from a car theft preventing device that is mounted on or in the car.

Also even when the car is a long distance from the main user of the car the car security service provided by the server may be provided via the user device that is kept near the main user. The main user may check current user image information obtained by the car device even though the car is a long distance away. The information output via the server is received by the user device and if the current user is not an authorized user the main user may remotely control the car device via the server to send a report to the police or to execute a theft warning mode.

Even when an unauthorized user is driving the car the user device is capable of continuously obtaining the current user image information and the current position information that the car device provides in real time via the server . The current position of a stolen car may thus easily be traced. In addition the data needed to apprehend the suspected car thief may be obtained.

Hereinafter detailed operations of the car device the server and the user device for a server based car security service will be described in detail with reference to .

The current user image information generating unit may generate current user image information of the car by using a car camera. Also the current user image information generating unit may generate image information obtained by capturing an image of the outside of the car by using the car camera. The current user image information generating unit may include a camera image information receiving unit that is linked to the car camera that is located outside the car device and receives images captured by the car camera.

The position information generating unit may include a GPS information generating unit that generates GPS information about a current position of the car upon receiving a signal from a satellite indicating a current position of the car and a map image generating unit that generates a map image by using GPS information or links GPS information to the map image. The position information generating unit may transmit GPS information or a map image to the current use information transmitting unit as the current position information.

The current use information transmitting unit may transmit at least one of the current user image information the position information and the car outside image information as the current use information of the car.

The sensor may sense a current usage status of the car in real time. The sensor may include a GPS receiver module and sense whether the car is currently moving or not based on a signal indicating a current position of the car which is received from the satellite. In addition the sensor includes an operating sensor or a temperature sensor to sense movement of the car or its components or the shaking of the car or it s temperature or the like to determine whether the car is currently being driven. Alternatively if an abrupt change has occurred in an image sequence of an image obtained by capturing an inside of the car by using the car camera the sensor may sense whether a vehicle door has been opened or closed or whether a person got into or out of the car.

Since various types of usage status may be present such as the opening and closing of the vehicle doors the presence of new persons in the car or the driving of the car a usage grade may be determined according to the usage status. Usage grades for the sensor to make a determination that the car is currently in use may be variably adjusted according to a required car security level. In other words if strict car security is desired the opening and closing of the vehicle doors may be regarded as indicating that the car is being used on the other hand if the theft of the car is to be prevented more weight may be given to indications that the car is being driven.

The camera controller may control the capturing point the capturing angle the frame rate and or the image quality of the car camera.

If the sensor senses a current usage status of the car the controller may exercise control such that the current user image information generating unit obtains the current user image information and that the position information generating unit generates the current position information of the car.

When the sensor senses for the first time that the car is currently in use the current use information transmitting unit may transmit first current use information of the car to the server .

In response to the server communicating about the first current use information of the car the controller of the car device may receive from the server a request to real time monitor the car including a request to provide real time position information of the car. If the main user of the car has confirmed that the current user is not an authorized user a real time monitoring request may be received from the user device .

According to the real time monitoring request the position information generating unit may continuously generate at least one kind of real time position information selected from among the real time GPS information and the real time map image information. The current use information transmitting unit may transmit the real time position information to the server . According to the real time monitoring request the current use information transmitting unit may transmit the real time user image information generated by the current user image information generating unit to the server . In this way the real time current use information transmitted to the server may be transmitted to the user device via the server .

If a request to execute a warning mode with respect to the current user is received from the server in response to the first current use information the controller of the car device may execute a warning mode that warns the main user about the current unauthorized use of the car.

If a request to provide current user image information or current position information is received from the server before the sensor senses the current usage status of the car the controller may control the car device according to a server request such that the current user image information generating unit obtains the current user image information or the car outside image information and that the position information generating unit generates current position information of the car.

The current use information such as the current user image information and the current position information and various requests such as the request to real time monitor described above are transmitted by the user device to the server and may also be transmitted to the car device via the server .

The car camera may capture an image of not only the current user of the car but also of the outside of the car. To precisely capture an image of the outside of the car as the driving speed of the car increases it is preferable to increase the frame rate of the car camera. On the other hand when the driving speed of the car is low or when the car stops the outside of the car may be precisely captured even if the frame rate of the car camera is low.

The camera controller may control the frame rate of the car camera based on the driving speed of the car. The camera controller may obtain the current driving speed of the car based on a satellite signal or GPS information indicating the position of the car. The camera controller may set the frame rate of the car camera to be based on the current driving speed of the car. That is to say it is preferable that the lower the current driving speed of the car the lower the frame rate of the car camera and the higher the current driving speed of the car the higher the frame rate.

The camera controller may set the frame rate of the car camera to be a maximum value when the current driving speed of the car exceeds a predetermined threshold or critical value e.g. 60 km h . Also the camera controller may set the frame rate of the car camera to be the lowest when the car has stopped. The highest frame rate or the lowest frame rate may be variably set.

The camera controller may receive camera control information from the server to set the highest and lowest frame rates of the car camera. Likewise the frame rate that the camera controller uses may be set so as to use a predetermined threshold driving speed that triggers the highest or the lowest frame rate. Similarly the frame rate that the camera controller uses may be set based on a ratio of the frame rate to the car driving speed.

When the camera controller adjusts the frame rate of the car camera to be in proportion to the driving speed of the car the car camera may thereby more precisely capture an image of surrounding environment even when the car is driven at a high speed. Also when the car drives at a low speed or has stopped the frame rate of the car camera is made to decrease and thus the generation of repeated images is prevented thereby saving data storage space and efficiently streaming or transmitting data to a remote place.

Accordingly the car device may obtain information about the current user image the map and the position of the car and the image of what is outside of the car.

The current user image information receiving unit may receive current position information including current GPS information or a map image of the car from the car device . Also the current user image information receiving unit may receive image information about what is outside of the car from the car device .

Upon receiving current user image information from the car device the current user image information receiving unit may transmit the current user image information to the authorized user determining unit to determine whether or not the current user of the car is an authorized user.

The server may first receive via the communication unit a request from the user device to provide the car s current user image information before receiving the current user image information from the car device . In this situation the server transmits via the communication unit a request to the car device to provide the current user image information. Then the current user image information is received from the car device in response to this request the current user image information may be transmitted to the user device based on a determination from the authorized user determining unit .

The authorized user determining unit may determine whether the current user image information received from the car device is that of an authorized user based on the authorized user information of the car previously stored in the server . For example a face recognition and determination unit may recognize the face of the current user by reading the current user image information and comparing it with the faces of users previously registered with the server as being authorized. Based on the comparison the face recognition and determination unit makes a judgment as to whether the current user is a registered person who is allowed to use the car.

The current use information transmitting unit may transmit the current use information of the car including the car s current user image information to the user device of the main user of the car via the communication unit based on a result of determination of the authorized user determining unit . The current use information of the car may include at least one of the current user image information the current position information and the car outside image information received from the car device .

When the current user is determined to be an unauthorized user based on the determination of the authorized user determining unit the current use information transmitting unit may transmit a notification message to the user device notifying the main user that the car is currently in use by a person who is an unauthorized user If a request to provide current use information is received in response to the notification message from the user device the current use information transmitting unit may transmit the current use information to the car device .

The server may receive from the user device a number of different requests including a a recheck request due to the mistaken recognition of the current user image b a request to add the current user image information to that which is already registered as authorized user information c a correction request to correct the authorized user information d a request to execute a warning mode or e a request to activate real time monitoring of the car in response to the request to provide the current use information.

Upon receiving a recheck request due to the mistaken recognition of the current user image the server may request the car device to retransmit the current user image information.

When the server receives a request to add the current user image information to what has already been registered as authorized user information the authorized user determining unit may update the authorized user information by complying. The purpose of a correction request received from the user device is to correct the authorized user information. When such a request is received the authorized user determining unit updates the car s authorized user information by correcting it in accordance with the content of the correction request.

When the server receives from the user device a request to provide current position information of the car and a request to real time monitor the car the current use information transmitting unit may request the car device to provide real time position information about the car. Upon receiving such real time position information which may include real time GPS information or a real time map image of the car from the car device in response to the request to provide real time position information the current use information transmitting unit may transmit the real time position information to the user device . If a request to provide real time user image information is transmitted by the user device with the request to real time monitor the car the car device may be queried for the car s real time position information and real time user image information and the real time current use information received from the car device may be transmitted to the user device .

The server may receive from the user device a request to execute a warning mode with respect to the current user of the car. As the current use information transmitting unit transmits a request to execute a warning mode to the car device a car security service based on the server may be implemented.

A GPS information obtaining unit of the position information generating unit may be able to obtain from the car device only a satellite signal or GPS information indicating the position of the car. The GPS information obtaining unit may generate GPS information when only a satellite signal is obtained and the map image generating unit may generate a map image of the position of the car by using the GPS information of the GPS information obtaining unit . The position information generating unit may link the satellite signal or GPS information received from the car device or a satellite to the map image stored in the server . GPS information or map images about a current position or a real time position of the car generated by the position information generating unit may be transmitted to the user device as current use information.

The server may set the frame rate of the car camera. The frame rate of the car camera may be set based on the driving speed of the car.

The server may also set the frame rate of the car camera in real time again based on the current driving speed of the car. The server may receive information about the current driving speed of the car directly from the car device or may measure the current driving speed of the car based on a satellite signal or on GPS information. Also the server may set the frame rate of the car camera in real time by determining whether the frame rate of the car camera is too fast or too slow by comparing the frame rate of the car camera with the current driving speed. This comparison can be based on the quality of the images being obtained from the car device using the car s outside camera. In this situation the server may determine an appropriate frame rate for the car camera in real time based on the current driving speed of the car and transmit the thus determined frame rate to the car device .

The server may set the frame rate of the car camera to be in proportion to the current driving speed of the car. If the current driving speed of the car exceeds a predetermined critical or threshold value the frame rate of the car camera may be set to a maximum value and if the car has stopped the frame rate of the car camera may be set to a minimum value. The maximum and minimum values for the car camera s frame rate may thus be selectable by the server .

The server may set and transmit to the car device a variety of camera control information such as a the maximum and minimum frame rates of the car camera b predetermined critical value or threshold information for setting the car camera s frame rate to maximum and or minimum values c a ratio for the car device to use so as to determine the proper frame rate for the car s camera based on the driving speed of the car.

The main user of the car may have a number of user devices. Accordingly the server may select at least one from among a plurality of user devices of the main user of the car and transmit current use information received from the car device to the selected at least one device. The server may also select all of the user devices and transmit the information to all of them.

Multiple user levels are possible. For example there can be one level of user that is allowed into the car and another level of user that is not only allowed into the car but is also allowed to drive the car. The different user levels can also be thought of as usage grades. The authorized user determining unit may determine a usage grade that is authorized from among the defined usage grades. Accordingly upon receiving an additional registration request to add a current user to the authorized user information from the user device the authorized user determining unit may specify the user level of the current user and add that to the authorized user information.

The current car use information receiving unit may receive current use information about the car from the server . The current use information about the car which is received from the server is information that is selectively transmitted based on the result of comparing the current user image information of the car that the server has received from the car device with the authorized user information stored in the server .

The current car use information receiving unit may receive various information from the server and may include a notification message receiving unit a user image information receiving unit and a position information receiving unit according to the types of received information.

When the user image information receiving unit receives current user image information of the car from the server a user screen outputting unit of the screen outputting unit may render a current user image and display the same on a screen. When the position information receiving unit receives current map image information of the car from the server a map screen outputting unit of the screen outputting unit may display a current map image showing a moving path of the car on the screen. Also when the current car use information receiving unit receives outside the car image information from the server the screen outputting unit may render an outside the car image and display the same on the screen.

If the position information receiving unit has received only a satellite signal or GPS information about the position of the car from the server the map screen outputting unit may generate a map image about the current position of the car based on the received satellite signal or the GPS information and output the map image on the screen.

The notification message receiving unit may receive a notification message notifying that the car is currently in use by an unauthorized user before the current user image information or the current use information are received from the server . The screen outputting unit may display the notification message on the screen or may generate a sound or a vibration to notify that the notification message notifying about an unauthorized use of the car has been received. The user device may also perform an alarm operation to notify the user about an unauthorized use of the car.

After the user device has performed the alarm operation to notify the user about the unauthorized use of the car a user input for receiving current use information of the car may be received via the user input unit . Accordingly a current user image information requesting unit of the security request transmitting unit may request the server to transmit the current user image information from him the car device .

The main user may check the current user image displayed on the screen to determine whether or not the current user is actually allowed to use the. If the main user affirms that the current user is not allowed to use the car the main user may give an input to the user input unit to request the execution of a warning mode operation of the car device or the execution of real time monitoring.

In response to a user input a warning requesting unit of the security request transmitting unit may transmit to the server a request to carry out real time monitoring of the car and also transmit a request to provide real time position information about the car. In response to the request to carry out real time monitoring of the car by the user device real time position information including at least one of a real time satellite signal real time GPS information and a real time map image of the car may be received from the server . In addition if there is a user input the requests a real time current user image the real time current user image information may be received from the server . The real time position information of the car which is received from the car device may also be transmitted via the server or real time position information that the server directly obtained or generated may be transmitted.

If the main user of the car checks the user device and decides that the current user of the car is actually allowed to use the car the main user has the opportunity to submit an additional registration request via the user input unit so as to register the current user of the car as part of the authorized user information. Also the user may input a correction request to correct the authorized user information that is input via the user input unit .

According to a user input based on the current user image information the current user image registration requesting unit of the security request transmitting unit may transmit to the server an additional registration request to add the current user image to the authorized user information of the car. Also according to a correction request to correct the authorized user information input via the user input unit the current user image registration requesting unit of the security request transmitting unit may transmit to the server the correction request to correct the authorized user information.

If the user cannot recognize the current user image displayed on the screen the user may input via the user input unit retransmission request to retransmit the current user image information. In response to the retransmission request to retransmit the current user image information the current user image information requesting unit of the security request transmitting unit may transmit to the server a retransmission request to retransmit the current user image.

Even before a notification message notifying the main user about current use information of the car or an unauthorized use of the car is received from the server if a request to provide current user image information of the user is input via the user input unit the current user image information requesting unit of the security request transmitting unit may transmit to the server request to provide current user image information of the user. Consequently the current car use information receiving unit may receive current user image information of the car that the server has obtained from the car device based on the request of the user device .

The user device may set camera control information so as to control the frame rate of the car camera in order to improve image quality or to set the photographing parameters of the car camera and transmit the camera control information to the server .

The user device may set according to user inputs car usage grade information about usage levels determined according to at least one usage status in which the car is used authorized user grade information about car user levels determined according to usage grades or the like. The user device may transmit to the server the car usage grade information or the authorized user grade information.

The integrated M2M service providing server is a service enabler server that implements an intelligent network linking an external communication network of user devices such as a mobile terminal with Internet services to provide various M2M services between various devices.

The integrated M2M service providing server includes a M2M mobile operator MMO mobile network operator MNO service interface unit MMO MNO a M2M service open application programming interface API module managing unit a service implementation module managing unit a networking managing unit and a service integrating unit .

The integrated M2M service providing server may transmit or receive data to from the user devices based on a M2M protocol. The user devices may include all kinds of devices that are able to receive various M2M services provided by the integrated M2M service providing server by implementing M2M communication based on a M2M protocol. For example the user devices may be smart phones tablet PCs cameras or camcorders display devices such as TVs home appliances such as refrigerators home networks including user home networks and linkable external home networks cars exercise equipment or the like.

The integrated M2M service providing server performs data communication with the MNO managing server . The managing server is located outside a home network and operates a MMO service or a MNO service via the MMO MNO service interface unit .

A MMO MNO service provider who operates MMO MNO services is a mobile communication provider who provides a mobile communication service by using a mobile communication network established by other mobile communication providers. A MMO MNO service provider provides MMO MNO services by using previously established mobile communication networks and gains profits from customers through subscription fees call charges and additional service charges. The service provider pays the mobile communication network provider for using the mobile communication network and or communication fees.

For example the MMO MNO service interface unit may transmit or receive device management information to from the MMO management server based on a MMO specific protocol. The MMO MNO service interface unit may include a MMO server managing unit managing at least one MMO managing server providing MMO MNO services to customers using the user devices the integrated M2M service providing server a data managing unit and an error controller respectively managing and controlling data and errors generated while receiving services of the MMO managing server .

The MMO managing unit may provide a common interface for external MMO providers who are to provide MMO MNO services via the integrated M2M service providing server .

The networking managing unit may include a user managing unit a device managing unit and a connectivity managing unit . The network managing unit may thus manage user information device information and connectivity status for networking with the user devices . The network managing unit may observe the status of the user devices so as to manage them and control the operations of the user devices .

The service integrating unit may collect various services provided by a service provider server to integrally provide various M2M services. The service integrating unit may implement a main service plug in module and a web service plug in module in order to provide not only a main service provided by an operating subject of the integrated M2M service providing server but also a web service provided by external service providers. Through the main service plug in module and the web service plug in module data communication with the service provider server such as downloading applications from the service provider server may be performed. The web service plug in module may provide a common interface for external service providers such as an external website provider.

The M2M service open API module managing unit of the integrated M2M service providing server provides M2M service interfaces in the form of APIs as a common interface used to integrate and organize various M2M services that are provided to the various user devices . For an external service provider to easily use and extend its function later an open API form of M2M service interface may be provided. Accordingly service providers may implement M2M services such as mash up services by using a M2M service open API provided by the M2M service open API module managing unit and M2M services of various service providers may be integrated through the service integrating unit .

The service implementation module managing unit may manage profiles used to implement various M2M services provided by the integrated M2M service providing server . By using the service implementation module managing unit service profiles such as web applications for implementing a main service and external web services that are collected using the service integrating unit may be managed.

The service implementation module managing unit may provide as M2M services provided by the integrated M2M service providing server a home device managing profile managing and controlling home devices of the user a life and health managing profile managing life information and health information of the user and for controlling related devices a car managing profile managing general status information of the car such as driving security and maintenance by the user or the like.

A server based car security service provided by the server according to the current exemplary embodiment may be provided as one of a plurality of integrated M2M services provided by the integrated M2M service providing server . For example the server based car security service provided by the server may be implemented by the car managing profile and the car device and the user device may receive the server based car security service by using the car managing profile of the integrated M2M service providing server as the user devices .

The service implementation module managing unit may combine the service profiles that are individually implemented to generate a new service profile. For example a refrigerator managing service implemented by the home device managing profile may provide a service which searches for foods stored in the refrigerator. A body fat managing service implemented by the life and health managing profile may provide a service which informs users about diets for controlling their body fat. The refrigerator managing service and the body fat managing service may be implemented as separate services but the integrated M2M service providing server link the refrigerator managing service and the body fat managing service so as to synergistically combine the services e.g. foods for the diet which are helpful in controlling the user s body fat are selected from the foods currently stored in the refrigerator.

Via the common interface for mobile communication providers established by the integrated M2M service providing server and an open API for service providers other communication providers may easily access a local network like the home network of the user devices . This can help foster the implementation and provision to the user devices of various convergence services in which the local network of the user devices and external networks are connected and linked.

The integrated M2M service providing server manages users of the local network and the user devices at a level above the local network and controls connecting and linkage systems between the local network and the external networks. Therefore a simple usage status in which various convergence services provided by the various service providers are separately used may be provided to the user devices . In addition a combination of services may be provided to the user devices as needed.

In operation the car device generates current user image information of a car by using a car camera. The current user image information may include an image directly captured by the car device and information about an image captured by an external camera that is linked with the car. The car device may generate external image information of the car by using the car camera.

In operation the car device receives a signal indicating a current position of the car from a satellite and generates current position information of the car. The car device may generate GPS coordinate information generated by using a satellite signal or a map image indicating the current position of the car by using the GPS coordinate information.

In operation the car device transmits to the server one or more of the following current user image information position information and outside image information. The car device may transmit to the server current use information of the car including one or more of the following current user image information position information and car outside image information. The current use information of the car may be transmitted from the server to the user device of the main user of the car thereby providing a server based car security service to a user.

The car device may adjust the car camera s frame rate based on the current driving speed of the car obtained by measuring the current driving speed of the car based on the current position information or based on the current driving speed obtained from other driving speed measurement equipment. The higher the driving speed of the car the higher the frame rate of the car camera and the lower the driving speed of the car the lower the frame rate of the car camera.

In operation the user device receives current use information of the car including current user image information of the car from the server .

The current use information of the car may include one or more of the following current user image information current position information and car outside image information that the server has received from the car device . By comparing the current user image information received by the server from the car device with the authorized user information that is registered at the server when an unauthorized user is detected a notification message notifying the main user of an unauthorized use of the car may be received. In response to the notification message transmitted by the server notifying the main user about an unauthorized use of the car the user device may request current user information of the car to be provided to the server and request to receive the same.

In operation the user device may transmit a request to initiate real time monitoring of the car together with a request to provide real time position information of the car to the server in accordance with a user request. The user device may render the current user image information from the server and display it on a display screen. This may allow the user to determine whether or not the current user of the car is an authorized user. The user device may receive various user requests such as a request to real time monitor a request to additionally register an authorized user or a request to retransmit a current user image.

In operation the user device may receive from the server real time position information that the server has received from the car device . The real time position information may include one or more of the following a real time satellite signal and a real time map image generated based on real time GPS information received from the car device . Also the user device may receive from the server position information created by the server by directly linking a satellite signal or real time GPS information to a map image.

In operation the server receives current user image information including an image of a current user of the car from the car device .

In operation the server may determine whether the current user of the current user image information is an authorized user based on authorized user information of the car previously registered at the server .

In operation based on a result of the determination of the server as to whether the user of the car is an authorized user the server may transmit the current use information of the car including the current user image information to the user device of the main user of the car. Accordingly current user image information current position information and outside the car image information generated by the car device may be transmitted to the user device via the server .

Accordingly as a server based car security service is provided between the user device which can perform network communication and the car device via the server the current image of the inside of the car may be reproduced via a screen of the user device and thus even if the user is a long distance from the car car theft may be prevented.

Also even when the face recognition and determination function of the server fails or outputs an inaccurate result a user request that is input by the user can be transmitted from the user device via the server to the car device after the user has checked the current user image information and thus a malfunction of the car security function can be addressed.

Also the authorized user information of the car which is previously stored at i.e. is registered to the server may be corrected in response to a request by the user device and thus the current user image information may be added to the authorized user information or used as learning data to improve the accuracy of the authorized user information.

In addition to the current user image information of the car the outside of the car image information may also be communicated between the user device and the car device via the server thus providing a black box function with respect to the car.

The user devices or the car device may be equipped with small limited processors as is characteristic of mobile terminals. Typically this would make it difficult to add modules for car security such as a face recognition and determination module. However since the server performs the processor intensive functions for a car security service the user devices and the car device need not be saddled with processor or memory intensive tasks such as face recognition and determination modules would have to perform. Also resultant data generated by implementing a service between devices in the server is transmitted to the user device or the car device to provide a service between devices and thus the application range of the user device may be broadened without extending the user device functionally or physically.

The exemplary embodiments can be written as computer programs and can be implemented in general use digital computers that execute the programs using a computer readable recording medium. Examples of the non transitory computer readable recording medium include magnetic storage media e.g. ROM floppy disks hard disks etc. optical recording media e.g. CD ROMs or DVDs etc.

While the inventive concept has been particularly shown and described with reference to exemplary embodiments thereof it will be understood by one familiar with this field that various changes in form and detail may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the inventive concept as defined by the following claims. The exemplary embodiments should be considered in a descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation. Therefore the scope is to be defined not by the detailed description but by the following claims and all differences within the scope will be construed as being included in the inventive concept.

