---

title: Virtual control for touch-sensitive devices
abstract: A virtual control is displayed on a touch-responsive display screen. The virtual control visually is displayed as multiple control segments, and layered over an active graphical user interface (GUI). When a contact and subsequent movement is detected on the surface of the display screen at a selected control segment, the selected control segment visually detaches and moves in the direction of the movement. Simultaneously, the GUI is instructed to cycle through a plurality of available program options based on a current position of the selected control segment on the display screen. When the contact is released, the GUI is set to a selected option corresponding to the current position of the selected control segment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09046943&OS=09046943&RS=09046943
owner: Google Inc.
number: 09046943
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121026
---
A graphical user interface GUI may include various integrated virtual controls for entering information or data based on a fixed scale for example 0 . . . 1 or for linearly controlling a certain feature of a device for example a volume control . Virtual controls used in connection with a touch screen allow a user to easily manipulate parameters of a GUI or in some instances to easily reposition portions of the GUI about the display.

The subject technology provides a system and method for displaying a virtual control. According to one aspect a computer implemented method may comprise displaying a stand alone virtual control on a touch sensitive display screen of a computing device the virtual control layered over at least a portion of a graphic user interface GUI at a starting position and comprising one or more virtually detachable control segments detecting a contact and subsequent movement of the contact over a surface of the display screen the contact originating at a selected control segment and moving away from the starting position visually moving in response to the movement of the contact the selected control segment in a direction of the movement and cycling in response to the movement of the contact through a plurality of available program options associated with the GUI based on a current position of the selected control segment on the display screen. Other aspects include corresponding systems apparatus and computer program products.

The previously described aspects and other aspects may include one or more of the following features. For example the method may further comprise receiving an indication that the movement has stopped at a stopping position and selecting a selected one or the plurality of program options corresponding to the stopping position. The virtual control may be displayed as a circle the virtually detachable control segments being positioned about a common center point. The virtual control may comprise multiple virtually detachable control segments each virtually detachable control segment operating to when moved cycle a unique set of program options.

The method may further comprise in response to detecting the contact visually detaching the selected control segment from remaining portions of the virtual control. The virtual control may comprise multiple interactive segments each interactive segment when activated by a contact or movement at a location of the display screen corresponding to the interactive segment operating to control a different technical function of the GUI. Cycling through the plurality of program options may comprise cycling through a plurality of browser tabs displayed in a web browser. A new tab may be opened for each predetermined number of pixels the selected control segment is moved. The method may further comprise detecting a movement of the contact toward the starting position visually moving the selected control segment toward the starting position and cycling through the plurality of program options in a reverse order.

Additionally or in the alternative the method may further comprise detecting before displaying the virtual control multiple simultaneous contacts points at the surface of the display screen wherein the virtual control is displayed on the display screen at a location corresponding to the multiple simultaneous contact points. In this regard a size of the virtual control may correspond to a distance between an opposing two of the multiple simultaneous contact points. The virtual control may be displayed when the multiple simultaneous contact points are detected and maintained at the surface of the display screen for a predetermined period of time.

In another aspect a machine readable medium may have instructions stored thereon that when executed cause a machine to perform a method for displaying a virtual control. In this regard the method may comprise providing a virtual control for display on a touch sensitive display screen of a computing device the virtual control visually displayed as multiple control segments the virtual control being displayed layered over an active graphical user interface GUI displayed on the display screen receiving an indication of contact with the display screen at a location corresponding to a selected control segment and activating in response to the contact control instructions corresponding to the selected control segment wherein the control instructions when activated operate to control a technical function of the GUI based on a movement of the contact over the display screen. Other aspects include corresponding systems apparatus and computer program products.

The previously described aspects and other aspects may include one or more of the following features. For example the method may further comprise receiving an indication that the contact is moving in a first direction and visually moving the selected control segment away from the virtual control in the first direction while cycling though a plurality of program conditions related to the technical function of the GUI in a first order. A program condition may be cycled for each movement of the selected control segment a predetermined number of pixels.

Additionally or in the alternative the method may further comprise receiving an indication that the contact is moving in a reverse direction and visually moving the selected control segment toward the virtual control in the reverse direction while cycling though a plurality of program conditions related to the technical function of the GUI in a reverse order. The method may further comprise receiving an indication that the contact released from the display screen at a stopping location and selecting a selected one or the plurality of program conditions corresponding to the stopping location.

The method may further comprise receiving before providing the virtual control an indication of multiple simultaneous contacts with the display screen at a starting location wherein the virtual control is provided for display at the starting location after a predetermined period after receiving the indication of multiple simultaneous contact points. In this regard a size of the virtual control may correspond to a distance between an opposing two of the multiple simultaneous contacts.

In a further aspect a system may include a touch sensitive display screen one or more processors and a memory. The memory may include server instructions thereon that when executed cause the one or more processors to provide a virtual control for display on the display screen the virtual control visually displayed as multiple control segments the virtual control being displayed layered over an active graphical user interface GUI displayed on the display screen receive an indication of a contact with the display screen at a location corresponding to a selected control segment together with a subsequent movement of the contact over the display screen visually detach and move the selected control segment away from the virtual control according to the direction and the distance of the movement while cycling though a plurality of program conditions related to the GUI receive an indication that the contact released from the display screen at a stopping location and select a selected one or the plurality of program conditions corresponding to the stopping location.

These and other aspects may provide one or more of the following advantages. The subject technology provides an easy to use control interface for controlling widely used functions of a graphic user interface for example a web browser . By providing the virtual control of the subject technology on a touch sensitive display screen the user may more easily manipulate information provided by the graphic user interface. Accordingly the user is saved cognitive resources measured in the effort and time that would otherwise be required to manipulate controls integrated with the graphic user interface that may not be easily accessible for example on small screens or that are not tailored to the user s liking. Accordingly the user has more time to perform other tasks or activities.

It is understood that other configurations of the subject technology will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description wherein various configurations of the subject technology are shown and described by way of illustration. As will be realized the subject technology is capable of other and different configurations and its several details are capable of modification in various other respects all without departing from the scope of the subject technology. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Virtual control may be displayed on display screen to enable a user to control various features of GUI by touching display screen at one or more locations corresponding to portions of virtual control . Virtual control may be initially displayed in response to receiving multiple simultaneous contact points at the display screen. The program code responsible for displaying virtual control configures computing device to detect the multiple simultaneous contact points on the surface of display screen and when detected displays virtual control at a location corresponding to the multiple simultaneous contact points for example at or about starting position . In some examples a display of virtual control may be triggered in response to two fingers coming into contact with the display screen. On an initial contact computing device may delay for a predetermined period of time before displaying virtual control to verify that the user intended to activate virtual control . For example on an initial touch computing device may delay x seconds for example 500 microseconds 1 second or the like before displaying virtual control . Virtual control may be displayed in a predefined size or a size based on the distance between the contacts with the display screen. In one aspect the size of virtual control for example a diameter radius length or the like corresponds to a distance between an opposing two of the multiple simultaneous contact points.

Virtual control may include a plurality of control segments . Each control segment provides a mechanism for user interaction with GUI via the display screen. In this regard a control segment may be activated by a contact or movement made at a location of display screen corresponding to the control segment. When activated the control segment operates to manipulate certain technical features or functions of an underlying active GUI . Control segments may operate together to control a single feature of GUI or may each control one or more unique features of GUI . One or more control segments may operate to select one of a set of program options or conditions for a feature of GUI . For example three control segments of virtual control may adjust volume treble and bass respectively for an audio or video streaming application.

Virtual control may be displayed as a shape having two or more equivalent control segments about a common center point for example starting position . In the depicted example virtual control comprises a pattern of four arc shaped control segments that form a circle. Without limitation other implementations of virtual control may be displayed in the form of other shapes for example a square or rectangle comprised of square shaped control segments .

Control segment operates on the underlying active GUI through movement of the control segment. As control segment is moved in a direction away from its starting position for example in a direction from xto x a command is sent to GUI to cycle through one or more predefined program options or conditions related to the operation of the GUI. For example program options or conditions may include applications to launch photos or wallpapers to choose which may be automatically displayed in the background in real time open tabs in a web browser volume levels and the like. In the depicted example control segment operates as a floating slider control that may be moved from left to right like a one dimensional band. Moving for example sliding control segment in a direction away from the starting position causes the underlying web browser to cycle through browser tabs .

Cycling of tabs may be linear such that a selected tab is activated for every n number of pixels the control segment is moved. In this respect immediate results are seen when control segment is moved and continue to be seen as the control segment is moved farther from its starting position. Moving the control segment back towards the starting position for example in a direction from xto x may have an opposite effect. For example program conditions may be cycled in reverse order. When movement of the control is stopped and contact at the display screen released for example by the user lifting his or her finger the currently cycled program condition or option for example a webpage corresponding to currently opened tab becomes the active condition or option.

In some implementations as a right most virtually detachable control segment is moved to the right browser tabs may be cycled in order for example to the right within the web browser. As the right most control segment is moved back towards its starting position browser tabs may be cycled in reverse order. A left most virtually detachable control may function in a similar manner for example provide cycling of respective conditions or options in response to movement of control in a direction opposite to control . The order of cycling may be mirrored from that associated with control segment or may be reversed from that associated with control . In some implementations the user can cycle through options or conditions forward and backward by dragging a control segment to the left or right and when the control segment crosses the center of virtual control an opposing segment detaches from virtual control and continues the movement and operative functions in the other direction.

Other for example top and bottom control segments may be associated with different features of a GUI . For example contact with the display screen at one or both of opposing control segments on the left and right sides of virtual control in a manner such as to simulate depressing virtual buttons may operate to cycle the program options or conditions in the manner previously described. For example a user may press an area of the display screen corresponding to a control segment and as long as the control segment remains depressed the options or conditions are cycled. Accordingly in some implementations a user may use control segments as buttons to cycle the depicted web browser between active tabs. In some implementations top and bottom segments may scroll an open webpage for example for an active tab up or down according to contact at the respective segments or movement of the control segments. In some aspects a control segment may control multiple features of GUI or each control segment may control a different feature. The top most control in the depicted embodiment is configured such that on a momentary contact with control segment for example that does not move the control segment the web page for example for an active tab in the web browser is refreshed.

In some implementations control segment may correspond to a menu associated or integrated with GUI . The menu opens upon activation of control segment for example when it is detached and the options of the menu are sequentially cycled and highlighted in response to movement of control segment in the previously described manner. When the movement of the control is stopped and contact at the display screen released the currently highlighted option is selected and the menu returns to its default state for example disappears .

According to the previously described implementations a user may also touch display screen and begin dragging control segment before virtual control is displayed. Accordingly virtual control may be displayed after the predetermined delay time has elapsed with control segment displayed at a current location corresponding to the current location of the user contact.

In some aspects pointing device computing device and display device may be integrated as a single device including for example a touch sensitive pad or display for example as shown in . Pointing device may interface with computing device and operating system to move a position indicator for example a cursor on screen pointer or the like on display device to interact with application . In this regard computing device may be configured with a device driver for translating user initiated movement of pointing device into commands usable by operating system or application . According to the subject technology driver may be configured with control instructions for display of a virtual control that visually interacts with pointing device and integration of the virtual control with an application programming interface API of application to control one or more functions of application .

In some aspects control instructions may receive position and control information from pointing device and transmit the position and or control information to application as control commands that are recognizable by application . Device driver intercepts position and control information from pointing device as it relates to interactions with virtual control and then transmits specific interface control commands to application according to the interaction with virtual control . In one example operating system may include one or more thread monitors that look for predefined control commands for example mouse or keyboard commands that are generated as a result of interaction with pointing device . Application is associated with one or more command or message queues. When an interface control command is detected a thread monitor associated with operating system diverts it to the appropriate queue for application where it is used by application for example to control GUI .

In block a stand alone virtual control is displayed on a touch sensitive display screen of a computing device the virtual control layered over at least a portion of a graphic user interface GUI at a starting position and comprising one or more virtually detachable control segments. For example a virtual control may be displayed in response to multiple simultaneous contacts with display device . Control instructions may detect contact with display device and on an indication of multiple simultaneous contacts at a starting location of display device virtual control is provided by control instructions for display at starting location . In some implementations virtual control is displayed after a predetermined period after receiving the indication of multiple simultaneous contact points. Thus inadvertent activation of virtual control may be prevented.

In block a contact and subsequent movement of the contact is detected over a surface of the display screen the contact originating at a selected control segment and moving away from the starting position. In some aspects control instructions for example corresponding to the selected control segment are activated in response to the contact. When activated control instructions operate to control a technical function of GUI based on a movement of the contact over display device .

In block the selected control segment is visually moved in response to the movement of the contact in a direction of the movement. Accordingly when control instructions receive an indication that the contact is moving in a first direction control instructions cause the computing device to visually move the selected control segment away from the virtual control in the first direction according to the movement. When an indication is received that the contact is moving in a reverse direction the selected control segment may be visually moved according to the movement in the reverse direction.

In block in response to the movement of the contact the subject technology automatically cycles through a plurality of available program options associated with the GUI based on a current position of the selected control segment on the display screen. When an indication is received that the contact has released from the display screen at a stopping location the program option corresponding to the stopping location is selected. In some implementations an available program option includes one of multiple active tabs of a web browser. Accordingly movement of the contact may generate control commands that when sent to the web browser cycle through a plurality of browser tabs displayed in the web browser. In various aspects a program option may also be cycled for each movement of the selected control segment a distance of a predetermined number of pixels for example every 25 or 50 pixels . The program options may be cycled in a first order or reverse order depending on the direction of the corresponding movement at pointing device .

Processor may be configured to execute code or instructions to perform the operations and functionality described herein manage request flow and address mappings and to perform calculations and generate commands. Processor is configured to monitor and control the operation of the components in server . The processor may be a general purpose microprocessor a microcontroller a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic device PLD a controller a state machine gated logic discrete hardware components or a combination of the foregoing. One or more sequences of instructions may be stored as firmware on a ROM within processor . Likewise one or more sequences of instructions may be software stored and read from system memory ROM or received from a storage medium for example via I O interface . ROM system memory and storage medium represent examples of machine or computer readable media on which instructions code may be executable by processor . Machine or computer readable media may generally refer to any medium or media used to provide instructions to processor including both volatile media such as dynamic memory used for system memory or for buffers within processor and non volatile media such as electronic media optical media and magnetic media.

In some aspects processor is configured to communicate with one or more external devices for example via I O interface . Processor is further configured to read data stored in system memory and or storage medium and to transfer the read data to the one or more external devices in response to a request from the one or more external devices. The read data may include one or more web pages and or other software presentation to be rendered on the one or more external devices. The one or more external devices may include a computing system such as a personal computer a server a workstation a laptop computer PDA smart phone and the like.

In some aspects system memory represents volatile memory used to temporarily store data and information used to manage device . According to one aspect of the subject technology system memory is random access memory RAM such as double data rate DDR RAM. Other types of RAM also may be used to implement system memory . Memory may be implemented using a single RAM module or multiple RAM modules. While system memory is depicted as being part of device those skilled in the art will recognize that system memory may be separate from device without departing from the scope of the subject technology. Alternatively system memory may be a non volatile memory such as a magnetic disk flash memory peripheral SSD and the like.

I O interface may be configured to be coupled to one or more external devices to receive data from the one or more external devices and to send data to the one or more external devices. I O interface may include both electrical and physical connections for operably coupling I O interface to processor for example via the bus . I O interface is configured to communicate data addresses and control signals between the internal components attached to bus for example processor and one or more external devices for example a hard drive . I O interface may be configured to implement a standard interface such as Serial Attached SCSI SAS Fiber Channel interface PCI Express PCIe SATA USB and the like. I O interface may be configured to implement only one interface. Alternatively I O interface may be configured to implement multiple interfaces which are individually selectable using a configuration parameter selected by a user or programmed at the time of assembly. I O interface may include one or more buffers for buffering transmissions between one or more external devices and bus and or the internal devices operably attached thereto.

Those of skill in the art would appreciate that the various illustrative blocks modules elements components methods and algorithms described herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative blocks modules elements components methods and algorithms have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application. Various components and blocks may be arranged differently e.g. arranged in a different order or partitioned in a different way all without departing from the scope of the subject technology.

It is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is an illustration of exemplary approaches. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes may be rearranged. Some of the steps may be performed simultaneously. The accompanying method claims present elements of the various steps in a sample order and are not meant to be limited to the specific order or hierarchy presented.

The previous description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the various aspects described herein. The previous description provides various examples of the subject technology and the subject technology is not limited to these examples. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects. Thus the claims are not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein but is to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language claims wherein reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless specifically so stated but rather one or more. Unless specifically stated otherwise the term some refers to one or more. Pronouns in the masculine e.g. his include the feminine and neuter gender e.g. her and its and vice versa. Headings and subheadings if any are used for convenience only and do not limit the invention.

The predicate words configured to operable to and programmed to do not imply any particular tangible or intangible modification of a subject but rather are intended to be used interchangeably. For example a processor configured to monitor and control an operation or a component may also mean the processor being programmed to monitor and control the operation or the processor being operable to monitor and control the operation. Likewise a processor configured to execute code can be construed as a processor programmed to execute code or operable to execute code.

A phrase such as an aspect does not imply that such aspect is essential to the subject technology or that such aspect applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to an aspect may apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. An aspect may provide one or more examples. A phrase such as an aspect may refer to one or more aspects and vice versa. A phrase such as an embodiment does not imply that such embodiment is essential to the subject technology or that such embodiment applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to an embodiment may apply to all embodiments or one or more embodiments. An embodiment may provide one or more examples. A phrase such as an embodiment may refer to one or more embodiments and vice versa. A phrase such as a configuration does not imply that such configuration is essential to the subject technology or that such configuration applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to a configuration may apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. A configuration may provide one or more examples. A phrase such as a configuration may refer to one or more configurations and vice versa.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs.

All structural and functional equivalents to the elements of the various aspects described throughout this disclosure that are known or later come to be known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be encompassed by the claims. Moreover nothing disclosed herein is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether such disclosure is explicitly recited in the claims. No claim element is to be construed under the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 sixth paragraph unless the element is expressly recited using the phrase means for or in the case of a method claim the element is recited using the phrase step for. Furthermore to the extent that the term include have or the like is used in the description or the claims such term is intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprise as comprise is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

