---

title: Suggesting points of interest on a mapped route using user interests
abstract: Methods, systems and computer program products for suggesting points of interests on a mapped route using user interests include receiving a request for a mapped route. The request can include off-route information indicating that the user is willing to visit points of interest not directly along the mapped route. That is, points of interests that may not necessarily be close to the user's mapped route but may be of high interest to the user can be presented or suggested to the user to enhance the user's travel experience or trip. The points of interest suggested can be selected based on respective relevancy scores representing a level of relevancy to a user interest. The suggested points of interest can be ranked based on the relevancy factors. The suggested point of interest displayed to the user can also be limited to those having a relevancy factor that meets a predetermined threshold.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09146129&OS=09146129&RS=09146129
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09146129
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120620
---
Global Positioning System GPS devices receive GPS signals for the purpose of determining the device s current location on Earth. GPS devices provide latitude and longitude information that can be used to derive the current location of the GPS device. As the proliferation of GPS devices has increased GPS devices have been incorporated into handheld or portable electronic devices such as cameras and smartphones. The GPS devices can also include maps which may be displayed on a touch sensitive display of the GPS devices.

Some GPS devices not only determine the device s location but also provide turn by turn directions to direct the user of the GPS device to a desired or identified destination. Such turn by turn directions provide the user with directions for a selected route that are continually presented to the user in the form of spoken and visual instructions. The GPS device keeps the user up to date about the best route to the destination as the GPS device takes into account traffic information road conditions and road construction. Some GPS devices also provide information on nearby amenities such as restaurants fueling stations etc. However such information is typically categorized by type or distance from the current location of the GPS device. The information is typically user generic and is sorted suggested and categorized based solely on the current location of the GPS device.

Various embodiments of the present technology relate to methods systems and computer program products for detecting and recognizing predetermined objects in images captured by cameras or scanners having limited computation resources using image gradients.

Conventional navigation systems typically do not provide the user or traveler with points of interest that are specific to the user s interests. Instead the points of interests are categorized by type such as food lodging attractions etc. and ranked based on distance from the mapped route. The present disclosure presents methods systems and computer program products for suggesting points of interest on a mapped route using user interests. Using such an approach points of interests that may not necessarily be close to the user s mapped route but may be of high interest to the user can be presented or suggested to the user to enhance the user s travel experience or trip. One non limiting example can include obtaining information indicative of one or more interests of a user for example user interests . In one example the one or more user interests can be derived from one or more of a browsing history a purchase history a social network a comment on a crowd sourced message board and a review on a crowd sourced website. The determined user interests can be ranked based on a priority score or relevancy score derived from an amount of activity associated with one or more of a browsing history a purchase history a social network a comment on a crowd sourced message board and a review on a crowd sourced website. A user associated with the one or more user interests can submit a request for a mapped route to a selected destination. Based on the request a mapped route to the selected destination can be generated. The request can include off route information. The off route information can indicate whether the user is willing to receive suggestions for points of interest that substantially match for example by a matching criterion or threshold one or more of the user s interests. The off route information indicating that the user is willing to travel to visit suggested points of interest that are a predetermined distance from a mapped route. For example the off route information can include a distance the user is willing to deviate from a mapped route or an amount of travel time the user is willing to alter for example increase the estimated travel time of the mapped route. One or more points of interest can then be identified based on the request and the off route information. Additionally one or more points of interest can be ranked based on relevancy scores associated with the points of interests. Information representing at least one of the one or more points of interest can be displayed with the mapped route. Points of interest can include attractions restaurants adventures gardens theatres landmarks monuments historical sites theme parks museums shopping centers wineries or any other venue site or locale that may be of interest or relevant to the user s interests.

The phrase communicatively coupled is defined as connected whether directly or indirectly through intervening components and is not necessarily limited to physical connections. Coupled devices are devices which are in signal communication with one another.

The phrase electronic device is defined as any device that is capable of at least accepting data transmitting data and executing commands. For example electronic devices can include but are not limited to portable communication devices mobile communication devices mobile computers smartphones computing pads tablet computers personal computers desktop computers laptop computers netbooks servers routers set top phones or other electronic devices capable of at least accepting data transmitting data and executing commands.

Details pertaining to methods systems and computer program products for suggesting points of interests on a mapped route using user interests will be described in further detail below and will reference . While will be discussed in terms of a server based method and system for suggesting points of interests on a mapped route using user interests those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the method and system for suggesting points of interests on a mapped route using user interests can be performed at the user s electronic device.

The electronic device can include but is not limited to a portable communication device a mobile communication device a mobile computer a smartphone a computing pad a tablet computer a personal computer a desktop computer a laptop computer a netbook a navigation device a GPS device or any other electronic device capable of at least accepting data transmitting data and executing commands associated with mapped routes.

In the electronic device can include a processor . The processor can be communicatively coupled to the electronic device . The processor can include one or more processors. In other embodiments the processor can be a processing system a computing system or any other system that is communicatively coupled to the electronic device that can receive and process requests for mapped routes entered at the electronic device for example entered using an input interface of the electronic device . Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that mapped routes can include maps turn by turn navigation directions interactive maps or any other graphical information from which a user can base his or her traveling.

Although not illustrated the electronic device can include one or more application modules that are communicatively coupled with the processor . In the application module can be a browser application module a map application a web browser application or any other module by which the user can enter requests for mapped routes. Those of ordinary skill in the art will also appreciate that such modules can control or be configured to control the processor to perform various actions. The module can be located in local storage devices not shown remote storage devices not shown or both local and remote storage devices communicatively coupled to the electronic device .

In the electronic device can include a display on which graphical information can be displayed. The display can be a touchscreen display a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode display LED an active matrix organic light emitting diode display AMOLED or any other display on which graphical information can be displayed. In the display can be configured to display search results web content overlay interfaces or any other graphical information associated with mapped routes or points of interests.

The electronic device can also include a location sensor . For example the location sensor can be a GPS sensor a gravitometer or any other sensor by which the location of the electronic device can be determined.

The electronic device can also include an input interface . The input interface can include one or more of a keyboard a touchscreen a touch sensitive display an auxiliary user input a microphone a gaze tracking input a motion detector a camera or any other input interface which can sense detect or receive inputs. For example such inputs can include gazing inputs touch inputs voice commands motion inputs keyboard inputs mouse clicks touchscreen inputs or any other similar input by which a user of the electronic device can enter information or commands or make selections.

As illustrated in the electronic device can be communicatively coupled to the server via a communication interface not shown . The communication interface can include a peer to peer P2P interface a Bluetooth interface a near field communication NFC interface a near field communication peer to peer NFC P2P interface a Wi Fi interface an internet interface or any other interface which allows the electronic device to transmit and receive information from the server .

The server can be a web based server a cloud based server a network based server a system of servers or any other server or servers. In other embodiments the server can be a central computing device remote from the electronic device . In the server can be associated with a computer system configured to generate mapped routes and suggested points of interest. In the server can include a processor . The processor can be communicatively coupled to the server . The processor can include one or more processors. In other embodiments the processor can be a processing system a computing system or any other system that is communicatively coupled to the server that can receive and process requests for mapped routes from the electronic device and can transmit at least one of a mapped route and at least one suggested point of interest if requested by the electronic device .

In the server can include an application programming interface . The application programming interface can be a server based map application a server based script associated with a map application a web based map application or any other application which can receive and process requests for mapped routes from the electronic device and transmit mapped routes and suggested points of interests corresponding to the request received from the electronic device and one or more user interests determined for the electronic device . Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the application programming interface can control or be configured to control the processor to perform various actions. The application programming interface can be located in local storage devices not shown remote storage devices not shown or both local and remote storage devices communicatively coupled to the server .

In the server can also include one or more computer readable storage media . The computer readable storage media can store one or more databases containing information from which the server can generate mapped routes and suggested points of interest. For example in the computer readable storage media can include a maps database and an interests database .

The maps database can include pre generated maps location information associated with points of interests geographical coordinates previously generated maps previously generated driving directions or any other data from which the server can generate or determine a mapped route.

The interests database can include lists of one or more user interests associated with one or more users. As the server is communicatively coupled with a plurality of electronic devices the server can store for each electronic device and in the crests database a list of one or more user interests associated with a respective electronic device . In other embodiments the interests database can include a plurality of lists of one or more user interests associated with one user. In either embodiment the one or more user interests can be derived from or determined from one or more of a browsing history a purchase or shopping history a social network for example by determining analyzing and monitoring tags pertaining to likes dislikes event attendances event invitations memberships to fan pages or group pages comments regarding objects events or places or any other actions in a social network that are indicative of a user s interest a comment or review on a crowd sourced message board or a crowd sourced website for example a review of a movie documentary product hotel book restaurant or any other comment or review that is indicative of a user s interest or any other resource from which the processor of the server can determine a user s interests. For example the processor can determine one or more interests based at least on a purchase history of the user. The purchase history can be retrieved from an e commerce website or a web browser history of the user s electronic device . As users typically purchase items that are representative of his or her interests the server can determine one or more of the user s interests based on the user s purchase history . For example if a user s purchase history includes a large number of sports memorabilia and sports gear for example golf related memorabilia and gear the server can determine that the user has at least one user interest in sports and specifically golf.

The interests database can be created or built on a per user basis. That is the interests database can create a list for each user that communicates or requests information such as a mapped route request from the server . The interests determined for each user can be ranked or prioritized. That is the interests associated with one user can be ranked by a level of interest or a level of priority such as a priority value . For example each interest determined for a user can be associated with a ranking value. The ranking value can be based on a level of browsing from browsing history a number of items purchased from purchase or shopping history an amount of commenting or activity on a social network for example by a number of tags pertaining to likes dislikes a number of requests to become a member of a fan page or a group page a number of events attended a number of received invitations to an event a number of comments regarding objects events or places or any other amount of action in a social network that is indicative of a user s interest a number of comments or reviews on a crowd sourced message board or a crowd sourced website or any other similar quantifiable action from which the server can derive or determine a user s level of interest in a respective user interest. For example in one embodiment the server can determine two user interests associated with one user based on a purchase or shopping history . A first of the user interests can be swimming. The first user interest can be based on a determination that the user has made more purchases for swimsuits suntan lotion flip flops and beach towels than other items in his or her purchase history . A second of the user interest can be wine. The second user interest can be based on a determination that the user has made more purchases for wine bottle openers wine glasses picnic baskets and winery travel guides than for any other items except for swimming related items. The processor can then assign a ranking value for each of the user interests based on the number of purchases associated with the user interest. For example the ranking value assigned to the user interest swimming can be a larger value than the ranking value assigned to the user interest wine as the user has made more purchases associated with user interest swimming than the user interest wine. When the server stores these user interests in the interests database the user interests can be sorted or ranked based on the ranking values assigned to the user interests. Such ranking values can then be utilized in selecting identifying and determining which points of interest to suggest to the user of an electronic device that has requested a mapped route with off route information. In other embodiments the ranking value can be user defined as will be described below in .

In at least one embodiment if the processor of the server determines at least one user interest the processor can query the maps database for points of interests based at least in part on data or information corresponding to or associated with a determined user interest for example golf . The query can return points of interest along or proximate to the mapped route that are related to golf. For example the returned points of interest can include a golf museum a golf store a golf hall of fame a golf themed restaurant a golf course a driving range or any other point of interest that one having a user interest in golf would find interesting or relevant. The processor can further narrow the points of interest based at least in part on off route information included in the user s request for a mapped route. For example the off route information can include a user defined or user selectable distance that the user is willing to deviate venture away wander or stray from the mapped route for example from a main route of the mapped route . The off route information can also include a user defined or user selectable amount of travel time that the user is willing to alter the estimated travel time of the mapped route. Based on the user defined or user selectable distance or travel time the processor can rank the points of interest retrieved from the maps database . For example the processor can associate a relevancy score for each of the points of interests. The relevancy score can be based on a value associated with criteria derived from the off route information submitted by the user that is the user defined or user selectable distance or travel time . The relevancy score can also be based on a value representing an amount of metadata associated with the point of interest that matches criteria associated with the determined user interest. The values of the relevancy score can be weighted. For example the value representing an amount of metadata associated with the point of interest that matches matching criteria associated with the determined user interest can be weighted greater than the value associated with criteria derived from the off route information submitted by the user. Based on the relevancy scores associated with one or more returned points of interest the processor can select a subset of the returned points of interest to transmit to the electronic device . For example the processor can select a subset of points of interests based on the relevancy scores of the points of interest. For example the subset of points of interests can have relevancy scores that meet or exceed a predetermined threshold. The processor can also rank the points of interest in the selected subset. For example the processor can rank the points of interest in the selected subset by one or more of the relevancy scores the distance from the mapped route and the travel time from the mapped route. The selected subset can then be transmitted from the server to the electronic device for display on the electronic device s display .

In while the application programming interface is illustrated as being separate from the computer readable storage media it will be appreciated that the application programming interface can be stored on the computer readable storage media along with the maps database and the interests database . Also while illustrates the server as storing the maps database and the interests database in a computer readable medium it will be appreciated that one or both of the maps database and the interests database can be stored on a remote device not shown . Additionally while illustrates the interests database being stored at the server and the server s processor building or determining the user interests those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the interests database can be stored at the electronic device . Additionally the processor of the electronic device can determine user interests. The processor of the electronic device can also build or create the interests database at the electronic device .

In yet another embodiment the maps database and the interests database can be associated with a mapping service and an interests service respectively. For example the server or the electronic device can transmit a request to a map service for a mapped route corresponding to a received mapped route request from the electronic device . The map service can then transmit one or more mapped routes corresponding to the mapped route request from the electronic device . Similarly where the mapped route requests also includes off route information indicating that the user desires to receive suggested points of interest the server can request from the map service one or more points of interest within a predetermined distance or travel time derived from the off route information from the mapped route. The map service can then transmit the one or more points of interest to the server . The server can then determine or select one or more points of interest transmitted by the map service to suggest for example as suggested points of interest to the electronic device . The server can select the one or more points of interest based on relevancy scores as will be described below.

In another embodiment where a map service is utilized the points of interest stored by the map service can each have respective metadata. The metadata can include descriptors associated with the points of interest. For example the metadata associated with a point of interest that is a golf course can include metadata such as a type e.g. recreation a title Par Golf Course an address such as the physical address. GPS coordinates etc. a description for example a number of driving ranges a number of holes etc. or any other information that can be included in metadata for a point of interest. The processor can then query the map service for points of interest using the user interests stored in the interests database . For example the processor can query the map service for points of interest having metadata that matches one or more user interests stored in the interests database . The map server can then return points of interests that meet the criteria of the processor s query. The processor can then rank the returned points of interest by assigning a relevancy score to each of the points of interest. The relevancy score can be based on an amount of metadata matching one or more user interests. For example points of interest having a larger amount of metadata can have a higher relevancy score than points of interest having fewer metadata. The points of interest can then be ranked based on the relevancy scores. The points of interest can also be categorized based on which user interest the point of interest matches. For example points of interest associated with a user interest swimming can be grouped in a first group and points of interests associated with a user interest golf can be grouped in a second group.

In another example the points of interest can be ranked based on a ranking value associated with the user interest that the point of interest matches. For example as discussed above where a user interest swimming has a higher ranking value than a user interest wine and where a first point of interest matching the user interest wine can have a higher relevancy score than a relevancy score for a second point of interest matching the user interest swimming the second point of interest matching the user interest swimming can be ranked or prioritized higher than the first point of interest matching the user interest swimming .

The disclosure now turns to a specific example of suggesting points of interest on a mapped route using user interests.

Although not illustrated in the processor can assign a ranking value to the user interest water activities. For example if the processor determines that the browsing history includes more items or search queries for diving related items than any other types of items the processor can assign a ranking value to the user interest water activities that is higher or larger than other ranking values for example larger than a ranking value for a user interest relating to trains that is based on a browsing history containing toy train purchases . In this example the user interest water activities will be ranked higher or listed before the user interest trains. However in one embodiment the ranking value can be user defined or the ranking of the user interests can be modified based on a user defined exception or exclusion. For example if the processor determined that the trains user interest should have a ranking value that is higher than the water activities user interest because the user has browsed or purchased more toy trains than diving items the user can designate or assign a different ranking value or priority to the water activities user interest for example by utilizing the input interface of the electronic device . That is the user can input an exception or exclusion to override or modify a default ranking by the processor . For example the user may want to designate the water activities interest higher than the trains interest because the trains interest is associated with the user s purchase or browsing history for toys for the user s child whereas the purchase or browsing history for diving items was for the user and therefore directly related to the user s interest.

While illustrates the user s interest derived from a browsing history conducted at the electronic device from which the user will request and receive a mapped route those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the browsing history and therefore the user s interest can be received or derived from activity at an electronic device different from the electronic device which the user will request and receive a mapped route. For example the electronic device which the user will request and receive a mapped route can be associated or related for example by a shared user account or by synching to the electronic device or electronic devices from which a user s interest can be derived.

In the GUI includes a suggested point of interest . The suggested point of interest can be displayed with or without interaction by the user. For example the mapping application can be defaulted to show suggested points of interest when a user submits a request for a mapped route. In other embodiments when the user submits a request for a mapped route the user can include off route information in the request to indicate that the user would like to receive suggested points of interests along or within a predetermined distance or travel time from a mapped route. In such an embodiment the suggested point of interest can be presented or displayed on the GUI as an icon or other graphical representation. In the suggested point of interest is represented by a circle having an arrow and an icon of a fish enclosed therein. The arrow can indicate the direction in which the point of interest is located relative to the user s current location. The icon can represent a type or category to which the point of interest belongs or is related. For example the icon of the fish can indicate that the point of interest is related to the user s interest in water activities as determined in . In another embodiment the icon can be an image of a wine glass which can indicate that the point of interest is related to a user s interest in wine or wineries. Although not illustrated the arrow and or icon can flash strobe or otherwise be animated to indicate that the user is approaching or proximate to a suggested point of interest. In the suggested point of interest can be a user selectable icon. When the suggested point of interest is selected detailed information can be displayed on top of adjacent to or in place of the GUI or in a new GUI. In another embodiment when the suggested point of interest is selected a list of points of interest within a predetermined travel time or distance of the mapped route can be displayed on top of adjacent to or in place of the GUI or in a new GUI.

The request section can include input fields by which the user can request a mapped route. In the request section includes a start field . The start field can correspond to the start point from which a mapped route will begin. In one embodiment the user can input the user s current location in the start field . In other embodiments the start field can be automatically inputted with the current location of the electronic device determined by the location sensor of the electronic device . In the user has entered a desired starting point in the start field . The starting point for example Ft. Lauderdale can be displayed in the map section along with a marker for example a bubble identifying the start point. The request section can also include a destination point . The user can enter or input a destination or end point at which the mapped route will end. The user can enter an address geographical coordinates a zip code a telephone number or any other information from which the map application can determine the geographical location of the destination.

In the request section can include an option button which when selected or otherwise designated can present off route information fields to the user. In other embodiments the off route information fields can be displayed in the request section without the selection or designation of the selectable option . The off route information fields can include a first selectable option which can indicate an amount of travel time that the user is willing to stray depart or wander from a mapped route. For example an amount of travel time that the user is willing to alter the estimated travel time of the mapped route. In the first selectable option is a check box but in other embodiments can be a radio button a pull down list or any other selectable option. A first input field can be displayed adjacent to the first selectable option . The first input field can be a text field a pull down list or any other input field by which a user can select or define an amount of travel time that the user is willing to alter the estimated amount of travel time of the mapped route. The off route information fields can include a second selectable option which can indicate a distance that the user is willing to stray depart or wander from a mapped route. In the second selectable option is a check box but in other embodiments can be a radio button a pull down list any other selectable option. A second input field can be displayed adjacent to the second selectable option . The second input field can be a text field a pull down list or any other input field by which a user can select or define a distance that the user is willing to stray depart or wander from a mapped route. Although not illustrated the off route information fields can include an exceptions option by which the user can identify or designate types or categories of points of interests or can identify or designate specific user interests that should be excluded from the mapped route when suggesting points of interest.

The request section can also include additional parameters by which the user can narrow or customize his or her mapped route. For example in the additional parameters can include selectable options such as check boxes that indicate that the user desires to avoid highways or avoid tolls.

When the user has completed at least some of the input fields in the request section the user can select a Get Directions option for example a selectable button to submit his or her mapped route request to a mapping application. The request can also be submitted to a mapping service a server designated for generating mapped routes or any other device or service configured to generate mapped routes.

In if the user submits a request for a mapped route that includes off route information a processor associated with the mapping application can generate boundaries along the mapped route that correspond to the user s defined amount of travel time that the user is willing to alter the estimated travel time of the mapped route and or the user s defined distance that the user is willing to stray depart or wander from the mapped route. For example a circular or radial boundary can be determined along each point on a mapped route for example each point along the full length of the route where the boundary corresponds to the defined amount of travel time and or distance. The boundaries can define the areas from which the processor of the mapping application can select or suggest points of interest. For example as discussed above the processor can query a maps database for points of interests located within one or more of the boundaries. The points of interests that are returned from the query can then be ranked based on at least one of a relevancy to a user interest a ranking of the user interest related to the point of interest a distance and or travel time from the mapped route or a distance and or amount of travel time from the boundary defined by the user s off route information as discussed above.

After the request for a mapped route is submitted or transmitted to a processor configured to generate mapped routes a mapped route can be generated and transmitted to the electronic device for display on the display screen as illustrated in . In the GUI can be modified to display the generated mapped route illustrated by a bolded line . In the GUI includes the map section and a directions section . In the directions section has been replaced by the request section illustrated in . The map section can include a modified map illustrating the mapped route from the start point Ft. Lauderdale to a destination point Walt Disney World . In the start point and destination point are represented by markers that are bubbles but the markers can be icons triangles flags or any other graphical representation.

The directions section can display turn by turn directions the user will travel to arrive at his or her final destination point . In the turn by turn directions are displayed in text form but can be displayed in other forms such as photos icon representations animations arrows voice commands or any other representation. In another embodiment the turn by turn directions can be displayed as an interactive map similar to that illustrated in . For example the GUI can include a zoomed in view of map and the turn by turn directions can be displayed as the user approaches each turn. In as the user travels along the mapped route the map section can be updated to show the user s current location along the mapped route .

Additionally as the user travels along the mapped route the GUI can be updated to display suggested points of interest associated with the electronic device s current location on the mapped route as illustrated in . That is the displayed suggested point of interest can be generated and displayed in real time. In the GUI can be updated to include a suggested point of interest section . For example in the suggested point of interest section has replaced the directions section of . The suggested point of interest section can include a list of suggested points of interest. In the suggested points of interest have been determined based on the user interests determined in namely a water activities interest. Additionally the points of interests listed in the list of suggested points of interest have been determined and selected based on the user s off route information included in the request for a mapped route for example any exceptions and the amount of travel time the user is willing to alter the estimated travel time of the mapped route and or distance the user is willing to travel or stray from the mapped route . Specifically in the points of interest in the points of interest section include a Dolphin Charter Fishing adventure suggestion a Dolphin Cove adventure suggestion a Port St. Lucie Dolphin Inn hotel suggestion and a Flamingo Winery suggestion. As illustrated in the points of interest displayed in the list can be ranked as discussed above. In for example the Dolphin Charter Fishing adventure suggestion is listed first to indicate that the Dolphin Charter Fishing adventure suggestion has at least one of a high relevancy score and a high ranking score associated with the water activities user interest.

While illustrates four suggested points of interest the number of points of interest included in the list can be default selected user defined based on a size of a screen based on the type of electronic device based on a bandwidth based on a minimum threshold associated with at least one of the relevancy score ranking score or priority or based on any other parameter.

In the map section can be updated to display representations or markers representing the points of interest listed in the list displayed in the points of interest section . In the points of interest displayed in the map section can be differentiated from one another based on their relevancy to the user s interest. For example points of interest represented by a first color can have a higher ranking score than points of interest represented by a second color. In other embodiments the points of interests can be differentiated from one another by a size of the marker a color a shape or any other differentiation. For example in one embodiment the points of interest can be differentiated by an icon displayed with the marker . The icon can identify the interest of the user that is associated with the point of interest. For example in the marker includes an icon of a fish to indicate that the associated point of interest is related to the user s interest in water activities. The marker includes an icon of a bunch of grapes to indicate that the associated point of interest is related to the user s interest in wine.

In the Dolphin Charter Fishing suggestion is represented by marker and the other suggested points of interest are represented by marker . As discussed above the Dolphin Charter Fishing suggestion is ranked as being the most relevant point of interest to the user as indicated by the Dolphin Charter Fishing suggestion being first on the list of suggested point of interest . The Dolphin Charter Fishing suggestion can be identified on the map as being the most relevant point of interest by including a pop up text box . The text box can include a summary or detailed information describing the Dolphin Charter Fishing suggestion photos videos customer reviews comments or any other information describing the Dolphin Charter Fishing suggestion. In one embodiment the text box can be displayed on the map when a cursor is hovered or placed adjacent to or proximate to the Dolphin Charter Fishing suggestion listed in the points of interest section .

Although not illustrated at least some detailed information can be included in the list of suggested points of interest. The detailed information can include a summary of the respective point of interest a distance and or travel time from the mapped route a relevancy score the metadata associated with the point of interest that match the user s interest and the user interest associated with the point of interest. The detailed information can also include a selectable option by which the user can indicate that he or she desires to receive or not receive points of interest similar to the selected or respective point of interest. For example such selectable options can include a show me more option to indicate that the user desires to view more points of interest similar to the one associated with the show me more option a hide option to hide specific types of points of interest a delete option to delete one or more points of interest from the list a save or favorite option to mark that corresponding point of interest as a favorite type of interest or any other similar options. In other words the detailed information can include selectable options by which the user can provide feedback regarding the relevancy and level of interest the user has in the suggested points of interest suggested in the GUI . This can thereby be used to improve the ranking of suggested points of interest and improve the selection of suggested points of interest.

In other embodiments the detailed information can also be displayed if the user selects a suggested point of interest from the map section or the point of interest section . For example in if the user selects the Dolphin Charter Fishing suggestion from the list or from the map section the electronic device can determine that the user desires to visit the Dolphin Charter Fishing suggestion. In other embodiments the user can affirmatively indicate that he or she would like to stray from the mapped route to visit the point of interest for example by selecting of a Visit this Point of Interest button or any other similar option. In response to the user s indication that he or she would like to visit the Dolphin Charter Fishing suggestion the GUI can be modified to display detailed information associated with the Dolphin Charter Fishing suggestion and display directions to the Dolphin Charter Fishing suggestion as shown in

In the map section has been modified to display a street view of the location of the Dolphin Charter Fishing suggestion. As shown in the Dolphin Charter Fishing suggestion is identified by a marker or bubble . A directional arrow is provided in the map section to indicate the direction in which the user must travel to arrive at the Dolphin Charter Fishing suggestion at marker . Also illustrated in the map section can include an ETA . For example the ETA can be represented by a time that the user will arrive at the Dolphin Charter Fishing suggestion a remaining time and or a remaining distance until the user will arrive at the Dolphin Charter Fishing suggestion. The map section can also include an icon representing a type of interest here a fish to indicate that the user has strayed from the mapped route and is en route to a point of interest. Additional points of interest located proximate to the Dolphin Charter Fishing suggestion can also be identified in the map section for example by point of interest icons . Specifically in the other point of interest icons can include graphics that illustrate the type of point interest or the category the point of interest belongs for example restaurants hotels attractions entertainment etc. .

After the user has visited the point of interest at marker the user can select an option not illustrated to generate directions to return the user back to the mapped route. For example the option can be a Return to Mapped Route option a Finished Visit option a Go Back option or any other option. In another embodiment a Mapped Route arrow can be displayed in the map section to indicate the direction in which the user should travel to return to the mapped route. For example the Mapped Route arrow can be displayed in place of the point of interest icon .

Each block shown in can represent one or more processes methods or subroutines carried out in example method . The steps illustrated in can be implemented in a system including a server such as that illustrated in . Each block shown in can be carried out by a processor or processing system of the server illustrated in a processor of any electronic device communicatively coupled to the server or any other processing system or computer system configured to suggest points of interest on a mapped route using user interests. The flow chart illustrated in will be described in relation to and make reference to the system illustrated in .

The method can begin at block . At block information indicative of at least one interest of a user can be received. For example a processor or processing system of the server a processor of any electronic device communicatively coupled to the server or any other processing system or computer system can receive the information indicative of at least one interest of a user. As discussed above the information indicative of at least one interest of a user can be retrieved from an interests database . In another embodiment the processor or can receive information from which a user s interest can be derived. As discussed above a user interest can be derived from one or more of a browsing history a purchase or shopping history a social network for example by determining analyzing and monitoring tags pertaining to likes dislikes event attendances event invitations memberships to fan pages or group pages comments regarding objects events or places or any other actions in a social network that are indicative of a user s interest a comment or review on a crowd sourced message board or a crowd sourced website for example a review of a movie documentary product hotel book restaurant or any other comment or review that is indicative of a user s interest or any other resource from which the processor of the server can determine a user s interests. When at least one user interest of a user is received the method can proceed to block .

At block a request for a mapped route to a selected destination can be received. For example a processor or processing system of the server a processor of any electronic device communicatively coupled to the server or any other processing system or computer system can receive the request for the mapped route to the selected destination. The processor or processing system that receives the request for the mapped route can be the same as or different from the processor or processing system that receives the information indicative of the at least one interest of the user. In at least one embodiment the request for a mapped route to a selected destination can be received from an electronic device such as a smartphone configured to provide driving directions. For example a graphical user interface associated with a map application can be displayed on the smartphone. The user can then input a destination at the graphical user interface to request a mapped route from the user s current location to the selected destination. After the request for the mapped route to the selected destination is received the method can proceed to block .

At block the mapped route to the selected destination can be determined. For example a processor or processing system of the server a processor of any electronic device communicatively coupled to the server or any other processing system or computer system can determine the mapped route to the selected destination. For example the processor can determine the user s current location using a location sensor of the smartphone or by triangulating the smartphone from cellular towers proximate to the smartphone. The processor can then retrieve one or more maps from a maps database . Based on the retrieved maps and the determined current location of the user the processor can derive or determine the mapped route from the user s current location to the selected destination input by the user. In another embodiment the processor can transmit a request to a map service for a mapped route from the user s current location to the selected destination. The processor can then receive the mapped route to the selected destination from the map service. When the mapped route is determined the method can proceed to block .

At block off route information based on the request can be determined. For example a processor or processing system of the server a processor of any electronic device communicatively coupled to the server or any other processing system or computer system can determine the off route information. In one embodiment the off route information can be user defined. For example the off route information can be included in the request for the mapped route. For example as discussed above the user defined off route information can include a distance that the user is willing to deviate venture away wander or stray from a main route of the mapped route. For example as illustrated in the user can input off route information with the user s selection of a destination when requesting the mapped route. The off route information can also include an amount of travel time that the user is willing to alter the estimated travel time of the mapped route form the user s starting point to the selected destination.

In another embodiment the off route information can be defined by the processor. For example a distance to deviate from the mapped route an amount of travel time the user is will to alter the estimated travel time of the mapped route or both can be default selected. For example the processor of the server or the electronic device can default select the off route information. In other embodiments the off route information can be determined by the processor of the server based on the selected destination. For example where a selected destination is Walt Disney World the processor can determine that since the selected destination is a family attraction or a children s destination children may traveling with the user and therefore the user will not want to increase the estimated travel time to the selected destination. Therefore the processor can determine that off route information will not be provided. In another embodiment where the selected destination is Walt Disney World and the starting destination is a winery the processor can determine that adults are traveling with the user and therefore would be willing to deviate from the mapped route. In response the processor can determine off route information with or without a request for off route information from the user. In still another embodiment the processor can transmit information to the user s electronic device to display a notification a pop up window or any other message that includes an inquiry as to whether the user would like the mapped route to include off route information. After the off route information is received or determined the method can proceed to block .

At block one or more points of interest within a distance of the mapped route based at least on the at least one interest of the user and the off route information can be identified. For example as discussed above a point of interest that matches at least one interest of the user can be identified as a point of interest for inclusion with the mapped route. A processor or processing system of the server a processor of any electronic device communicatively coupled to the server or any other processing system or computer system can identify the one or more points of interest. As discussed above points of interest can be associated with relevancy score. The relevancy scores can correspond to an amount that a respective point of interest matches criteria associated with a respective interest of the user. Points of interest that have a relevancy score matching a predetermined criterion for example a threshold value can be identified as a point of interest for inclusion with the mapped route. The points of interest can also be selected or identified based on the off route information. For example in one embodiment the points of interest can first be identified by their respective relevancy scores. Then the points of interest that are identified as matching a threshold value associated with the at least one interest of the user can be filtered based on a location of the point of interest with respect to the mapped route. For example the processor can identify for inclusion with the mapped route the points of interests that have a respective relevancy score matching the threshold value and that are also within the distance the user is willing to deviate from the mapped route or within the travel time the user is willing to alter the estimated travel time of the mapped route. In another embodiment the selected destination can be utilized to identify the points of interest for inclusion with the mapped route. For example as discussed above where the selected destination is Walt Disney World which has been determined as being a family attraction the processor can select points of interests that are relevant to interests of the user that are family friendly or family appropriate. For example points of interest associated with a fishing interest a movie interest a train interest or any other family friendly interest whereas points of interest associated with a non family friendly interest such as a wine interest can be excluded. The number of points of interests identified can be default selected by the processor user defined or based on a size of the display on which the mapped route will be displayed. After one or more points of interest are identified the method can proceed to block .

At block information representative of at least one of the one or more points of interest can be presented with the mapped route. For example the processor or processing system of the server a processor of any electronic device communicatively coupled to the server or any other processing system or computer system can cause information representative of at least one of the one or more points of interest to be presented with the mapped route when the mapped route is displayed on the electronic device . In an example embodiment identifiers for example icons can be displayed on the mapped route to identify where the points of interest are located with respect to the mapped route for example as illustrated in . The identifiers can include icons representing the type or kind of interest of the user associated with the point of interest for example in a fish to represent a fishing or water interest of a user a bunch of grapes to represent a vineyard interest of the user or a wine glass to represent a wine interest of the user . In one embodiment the points of interest presented with the mapped route can be distinguished from one another based on their respective relevancy scores. For example a first point of interest included on the mapped route can have a first relevancy score and a second point of interest included on the mapped route can have a second relevancy score that is less than the first relevancy score. As the first point of interest has a higher relevancy score than the second point of interest a determination can be made that the user will prefer to visit or travel to the first point of interest rather than the second point of interest. Based on this determination the identifier associated with first point of interest can be presented in a color that is different from that of the identifier associated with the second point of interest. In other embodiments the size of the identifier associated with first point of interest can be larger than that of the identifier associated with the second point of interest. In still another embodiment the identifier associated with the first point of interest can have a shape different from that of the identifier associated with the second point of interest.

Instead of or in addition to presenting information associated with the identified point of interest as identifiers or icons on the mapped route the information representative of at least one of the one or more points of interest can be presented as a list of points of interest displayed adjacent to the mapped route for example as illustrated in . The list of points of interest can include a name associated with the point of interest for example a business name an address of the point of interest a phone number associated with the point of interest a distance from the mapped route that the point of interest is located an amount of travel time that the traveling to the point of interest alters the estimated travel time of the mapped route an adjusted estimated travel time associated with traveling to the point of interest an indication for example an icon of the user interest associated with the point of interest or any other information representative of the identified point of interest or interest. In one embodiment the points of interest can be listed based on the relevancy scores associated with the points of interest the distance from the mapped route or the travel time associated with the point of interest or the user interest associated with the point of interest. For example the points of interests can be grouped based on the user interest associated therewith. In another embodiment the points of interest can be listed in order based on the priority value or ranking value discussed above associated with the user interest corresponding to the point of interest. After information representative of the at least one of the one or more points of interest are presented with the mapped route the method can optionally proceed to block .

At block feedback information associated with the electronic device on which the mapped route is displayed can be received. Feedback information can include a selection of one or more of the points of interest information indicative of the user traveling toward one of the points of interest identified by the processor a purchase input as will be described below or any other user interactions with the electronic device or any other electronic device associated with the electronic device on which the mapped route is displayed that are made while travelling along the mapped route. The processor or processing system of the server a processor of any electronic device communicatively coupled to the server or any other processing system or computer system can receive the feedback information. For example feedback information can correspond to a user interaction can include a selection or a like tag on a smartphone synched with the electronic device on which the mapped route is displayed. In another example feedback information can correspond to a purchase such as purchase input made on the electronic device on which the mapped route is displayed or any other electronic device associated therewith. The feedback information can indicate that the user s interest has changed. In other embodiments the feedback information can identify a refinement of the user s current interest along the mapped route. Other feedback information can include intemet browsing posting comments or reviews on a message board or website or any other similar activity from which user interests can be derived. After feedback information is received the method can proceed to block .

At block the information representative of at least one of the one or more points of interest presented with the mapped route can be updated or modified based on the received feedback information. The processor or processing system of the server a processor of any electronic device communicatively coupled to the server or any other processing system or computer system can update or modify the information representative of at least one of the one or more points of interest presented with the mapped route based on the received feedback information. In one embodiment the information representative of at least one or more points of interest can be updated or modified by at least one of removing at least one point of interest replacing at least one point of interest or adding at least one point of interest based on the received feedback information. For example in an embodiment where the electronic device displaying the mapped route is an on board navigation device included in a dashboard of a vehicle the feedback information can correspond to actions on a smartphone that is associated for example synched with the electronic device . In one example a passenger operating a smartphone synched with the electronic device can interact with a social network by tagging a museum page with a like tag. This interaction can be processed by the electronic device as feedback information. For example the electronic device can determine that the user has a current interest that is a museum user interest. Because of the recency of the like tag a high priority value or ranking value can be assigned to the user interest museum. The point of interest section of the GUI can then be updated with points of interest relating to a user interest museum as opposed to a user interest water activities. 

In another embodiment where the electronic device displaying the mapped route is an on board navigation device included in a dashboard of a vehicle the feedback information can correspond to actions on a smartphone that is synched with the electronic device where the actions are associated with a purchase of a song entitled Go to the Beach. Other purchase inputs can include purchasing a product via an ecommerce webpage browsing an ecommerce webpage purchasing tickets to an attraction or event purchasing admission to an attraction located along the mapped route purchasing an item associated with a displayed point of interest or any other purchase input. In the example where the purchase input is associated with a song entitled Go to the Beach the processor can determine that the user or a passenger travelling with the user has a current interest in beach related activities. The processor can then update the points of interest to exclude or remove at least one point of interest that is unrelated to beach related activities. In another embodiment the processor can modify the points of interest such that the points of interest that are related to beach related activities are displayed more prominently than other points of interest. In still another embodiment the processor can determine that a beach interest has a higher priority value or ranking than other interest of the user and re rank the user s interests. For example the processor can place the points of interest associated with the beach interest higher in a list of points of interest than other points of interests. In another example based on the re ranking of the user interests the processor can identify a new set of points of interest based that are related to the beach interest. Alternatively the processor can modify the current set of points of interest to replace the points of interest that are unrelated to the beach interest with those points of interests that are related to the beach interest.

In yet another embodiment the feedback information can correspond to a selection of one or more of the points of interest displayed or presented with the mapped route for example a selection of the point of interest to view additional information or detailed information with the selected point of interest . Based on the selection of the point of interest the processor can determine that the interest associated with the selected point of interest is the user s current interest. The processor can then re assign or modify the ranking value or priority value of the interest determined to be the user s current interest to indicate that the corresponding interest should have a higher value than other interests represented by the points of interest. Then the processor can modify or alter the information representative of at least one of the one or more points of interest such that the points of interest represented on the mapped route are associated with the interest determined to be the user s current interest. In other embodiments the points of interests associated with the interest determined to be the user s current interest can be distinguished or displayed more prominently than the other points of interest presented with the mapped route. In still another embodiment a new set or list of points of interests that are associated with the user s current interest can be identified and presented with the mapped route. While illustrates utilizing feedback information to identify or modify points of interest those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that blocks and can be optionally included.

As discussed above the various embodiments can be implemented in a wide variety of operating environments which in some cases can include one or more user computers computing devices or processing devices which can be used to operate any of a number of applications. User or client devices can include any of a number of general purpose personal computers such as desktop or laptop computers running a standard operating system as well as cellular wireless and handheld devices running mobile software and capable of supporting a number of networking and messaging protocols. Such a system also can include a number of workstations running any of a variety of commercially available operating systems and other known applications for purposes such as development and database management. These devices also can include other electronic devices such as dummy terminals thin clients gaming systems and other devices capable of communicating via a network.

Various aspects also can be implemented as part of at least one service or Web service such as may be part of a service oriented architecture. Services such as Web services can communicate using any appropriate type of messaging such as by using messages in extensible markup language XML format and exchanged using an appropriate protocol such as SOAP derived from the Simple Object Access Protocol . Processes provided or executed by such services can be written in any appropriate language such as the Web Services Description Language WSDL . Using a language such as WSDL allows for functionality such as the automated generation of client side code in various SOAP frameworks.

Most embodiments utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols such as TCP IP OSI FTP UPnP NFS CIFS and AppleTalk. The network can be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and any combination thereof.

In embodiments utilizing a Web server the Web server can run any of a variety of server or mid tier applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers data servers. Java servers and business application servers. The server s also may be capable of executing programs or scripts in response requests from user devices such as by executing one or more Web applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations thereof. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase and IBM .

The environment can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments the information may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices each such device can include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus the elements including for example at least one central processing unit CPU at least one input device e.g. a mouse keyboard controller touch screen or keypad and at least one output device e.g. a display device printer or speaker . Such a system may also include one or more storage devices such as disk drives optical storage devices and solid state storage devices such as random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM as well as removable media devices memory cards flash cards etc.

Such devices also can include a computer readable storage media reader a communications device e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device etc. and working memory as described above. The computer readable storage media reader can be connected with or configured to receive a computer readable storage medium representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The system and various devices also typically will include a number of software applications modules services or other elements located within at least one working memory device including an operating system and application programs such as a client application or Web browser. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology. CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a system device.

Embodiments of the present disclosure may be provided as a computer program product including a nontransitory machine readable storage medium having stored thereon instructions in compressed or uncompressed form that may be used to program a computer or other electronic device to perform processes or methods described herein. The machine readable storage medium may include but is not limited to hard drives floppy diskettes optical disks CD ROMs DVDs read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs flash memory magnetic or optical cards solid state memory devices or other types of media machine readable medium suitable for storing electronic instructions. Further embodiments may also be provided as a computer program product including a transitory machine readable signal in compressed or uncompressed form . Examples of machine readable signals whether modulated using a carrier or not include but are not limited to signals that a computer system or machine hosting or running a computer program can be configured to access including signals downloaded through the Internet or other networks. For example distribution of software may be Internet download.

Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

