---

title: Fact checker engine
abstract: Methods, systems, and computer-readable storage media for automatically checking and acting on one or more claims. Implementations include actions of receiving claim information associated with one or more claims, wherein each of the one or more claims includes a factual claim, processing the claim information based on a domain vocabulary to identify at least one of one or more keywords and one or more categories, for each claim of the one or more claims: identifying one or more facts relevant to the claim, and determining an accuracy of the claim based on the one or more facts generating a confidence score reflecting an overall confidence in the one or more claims based on respective accuracies, and transmitting at least one of the one or more claims and the confidence score for display in a graphical user interface (GUI).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09536266&OS=09536266&RS=09536266
owner: SAP SE
number: 09536266
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20120801
---
In many consumer facing industries e.g. insurance banking retail healthcare public services consumers can be in direct communication with a customer service representative. In some examples the customer service representative collects information from the customer in order for decisions to be taken based on the provided information. Organizations however must guard against the risk of taking action based on incorrect information provided by the customer. Consequently the verification of information is often delegated to a centralized authority. For example in the insurance industry customer claims collected by a user facing customer service representative are delegated to an expert in claims analysis. This results in delays and overheads as information is transmitted and analyzed. Further customer service representatives often work from a script in order to ensure that necessary information is collected from the customer. Following a script however can hinder focusing on the natural flow of the conversation between the customer and the customer service representative.

Implementations of the present disclosure include computer implemented methods for automatically checking and acting on one or more claims. In some implementations receiving at the one or more processors claim information associated with one or more claims wherein each of the one or more claims includes a factual claim processing using the one or more processors the claim information based on a domain vocabulary to identify at least one of one or more keywords and one or more categories for each claim of the one or more claims identifying one or more facts relevant to the claim and determining an accuracy of the claim based on the one or more facts generating using the one or more processors a confidence score reflecting an overall confidence in the one or more claims based on respective accuracies and transmitting at least one of the one or more claims and the confidence score for display in a graphical user interface GUI .

In some implementations actions further include identifying one or more actions based on one or more of the one or more claims the one or more facts and the confidence score and transmitting the one or more actions for display in the GUI.

In some implementations identifying one or more actions is further based on an authorization level of a user providing claim information each action of the one or more actions including an action that the user is authorized to execute.

In some implementations actions further include receiving user input indicating selection of at least one action of the one or more actions and in response to receiving the user input invoking the at least one action.

In some implementations identifying one or more facts relevant to the claim includes accessing a fact database based on one or more keywords associated with the claim and retrieving the one or more facts from the fact database.

In some implementations identifying one or more facts relevant to the claim includes generating one or more queries based on one or more keywords associated with the claim querying one or more context sources based on the one or more queries and receiving the one or more facts in response to querying the one or more context sources.

In some implementations the one or more input sources include one or more of a user that inputs claim information into the GUI an audio file an image file an email message an instant message and a text message.

In some implementations the domain vocabulary provides one or more terms and for each term of the one or more terms provides at least one of a definition of the term a range of permissible values of the term and a category to which the term is associated.

In some implementations processing the claim information based on the domain vocabulary includes comparing each term provided in the claim information to the one or more terms provided in the domain vocabulary wherein when a term of the claim information matches a term in the domain vocabulary the term of the claim information is identified as a keyword.

In some implementations actions further include for each claim of the one or more claims transmitting instructions to display the claim in the GUI.

In some implementations the instructions further include instructions to display a graphical representation of the accuracy of the claim.

In some implementations actions further include transmitting instructions to display at least one fact associated with the claim in the GUI.

In some implementations the instructions to display at least one fact associated with the claim in the GUI are transmitted in response to user input.

In some implementations the user input includes user interaction with the claim displayed in the GUI.

In some implementations the confidence score is determined as a ratio between a number of claims that are determined to be accurate and a total number of claims.

The present disclosure also provides a computer readable storage medium coupled to one or more processors and having instructions stored thereon which when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform operations in accordance with implementations of the methods provided herein.

The present disclosure further provides a system for implementing the methods provided herein. The system includes one or more processors and a computer readable storage medium coupled to the one or more processors having instructions stored thereon which when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform operations in accordance with implementations of the methods provided herein.

It is appreciated that methods in accordance with the present disclosure can include any combination of the aspects and features described herein. That is methods in accordance with the present disclosure are not limited to the combinations of aspects and features specifically described herein but also include any combination of the aspects and features provided.

The details of one or more implementations of the present disclosure are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages of the present disclosure will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Implementations of the present disclosure are generally directed to a fact checker system that enables real time verification of customer information and execution of actions based on the customer information. More specifically implementations provide for automatic retrieval of accurate context information based on customer provided information to increase the reliability of decisions taken by a user. In some examples the user can include a customer service representative CSR e.g. an insurance claims agent a sales agent . In some implementations one or more actions are suggested to the user based on the collected information. The user is able to select actions for execution. In some implementations a confidence score is provided to the user. In some examples the confidence score reflects an overall confidence in the customer provided information and can be derived based on a comparison between the customer provided information and corresponding objective facts.

In some implementations the fact checker system includes a graphical user interface GUI a fact checker engine a claim base an action base a fact base and a domain vocabulary. As discussed in further detail herein the user can interact with the fact checker engine through the GUI to for example input customer provided information. The fact checker engine can process the customer provided information based on information stored in each of the claim base the action base the fact base and the domain vocabulary to suggest the one or more actions to the user and or to provide the confidence score.

In the depicted example the user workstation includes a computing device and a communication device . In some examples the computing device and the communication device can be provided as a single device. In the depicted example each of the computing device and or the communication device can communicate with each of the communication devices over the network .

In some examples each of the communication devices can include any appropriate type of communication device and or computing device such as a telephone a desktop computer a laptop computer a handheld computer a tablet computer a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular telephone a network appliance a camera a smart phone an enhanced general packet radio service EGPRS mobile phone a media player a navigation device an email device a game console or an appropriate combination of any two or more of these devices or other data processing devices. In some examples the computing device can include any appropriate type of computing device such as a desktop computer a laptop computer a handheld computer a tablet computer a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular telephone a network appliance a camera a smart phone an enhanced general packet radio service EGPRS mobile phone a media player a navigation device an email device a game console or an appropriate combination of any two or more of these devices or other data processing devices. In some examples the communication device can include any appropriate type of communication device or system such as a telephone a smart phone an email device a chatting device voice over IP and or any other appropriate type of communication system.

In some implementations the network can include a large computer network such as a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet a cellular network a telephone network e.g. PSTN or an appropriate combination thereof connecting any number of communication devices mobile computing devices fixed computing devices and server systems.

In some implementations the server system includes a server and a data store and is intended to represent various forms of servers including but not limited to a web server an application server a proxy server a network server and or a server pool. In general the server system accepts user requests for application services and provides such services to any number of client devices e.g. the computing device over the network .

In some implementations software can be stored in memory of each of the computing devices to provide instructions to a processor not shown to perform various functions in accordance with implementations of the present disclosure. For example the computing device can store and execute software such as an operating system and or application programs. In some examples one or more application programs used by a computing device can include computer executable instructions for invoking user functionality related to communication such as email chat short message service SMS and voice input and speech recognition applications. Implementations of the present disclosure can also include computer executable instructions such as program modules executable by a computing device. In some examples program modules can be defined as routines programs objects components and or data structures that perform particular tasks and or that implement particular abstract data types.

Implementations of the present disclosure are discussed in further detail below with reference to an example context. The example context is directed to the insurance industry and includes an insurance customer providing information to a claims agent in an effort to make an insurance claim. Example insurance claims can relate to vehicle home and business claims among others. It is appreciated however that implementations of the present disclosure are readily applicable in other contexts.

In some examples an insurance claim can be defined as a property specific claim filed by a customer. In some examples a customer can include a private person a service agency or a company. Referring to each of the users can be customers of an insurance company the user being a claims agent of the insurance company. In some examples each of the users can contact the insurance company and can be directed to the claims agent over the respective communication devices the network and the user workstation . In some examples a property specific claim can be provided in an electronic data file and can include client related information a description of the property the location of the property during an event the time of the event and or other relevant information or evidence associated to the property. Consequently the claim could include multiple keywords belonging to particular categories. In some examples the insurance claim can be retrieved by the user . For example the user can be contacted by phone by a client or who wishes to file an insurance claim. The user can use the computing device to input the claim. The computing device can send claim information to the server system over the network . The server system can process the claim information to retrieve the categories and associated context sources. In some implementations a domain vocabulary defining the categories and features of context information can be stored in and or otherwise accessed by the server system . The server system can generate a confidence score for the claim and or a plurality of claims and can provide the confidence score over the network for display on the computing device . The server system can identify one or more actions and can provide the one or more actions for display on the computing device . The user can select an action appropriate for the processed claim.

In some examples one or more components of the fact checker system can be provided on a server system and or a computing device. In some examples each of the components of the fact checker system can be provided as one or more computer executable programs and or one or more data stores. For example and as discussed above the GUI can be provided on a computing device e.g. the computing device of . In some examples each of the fact checker engine the claim base module the domain vocabulary module the fact base module and the action base module can be provided by one or more server systems such as the server system of .

In some implementations the fact checker engine can be provided as a central component of the fact checker system and can communicate with the other components of the fact checker system during claim processing. In some examples the fact checker engine can communicate information between the modules as well as the GUI .

In some implementations and in the example context the user can communicate with a customer e.g. one or more of the users regarding an insurance claim and can input claim information into the computing device using the GUI . In some implementations claim information can be automatically retrieved. For example policy information e.g. name of policy holder policy number policy terms address associated with policy holder etc. associated with the particular customer can be retrieved from computer readable memory e.g. the data store of the server system . In a recurring example a customer can contact the insurance company regarding a claim for damage to an automobile that was damaged by a hail storm. In the recurring example the claim can include that the hail storm occurred around 3PM on Dec. 12 2012 in Brunswick Ga.

In some implementations the user interacts with the fact checker system through the GUI . In some examples and as discussed in further detail herein the user can use the GUI to enter and or retrieve claim information to view context information relating to a claim to schedule actions and or to assess the credibility of the claim information.

In some implementations the claim base module provides a searchable record of one or more customer conversations. For example the claim base module can provide a searchable record of each claim made by a customer where the claim is recorded and coded according to a domain vocabulary provided in the domain vocabulary module discussed in further detail below. In some examples the claim is provided based on information provided from the user and or the input sources . In some examples claim information that makes up a claim can be provided from a conversation that is transcribed by the user using text input via the computing device. In some examples the claim information can be provided by other means e.g. direct audio to text conversion .

In some examples the claim base module includes original text and coded text for each claim provided therein. In some examples the claim base module is provided as one or more computer executable components and a database stored in computer readable memory. By providing a searchable record of a customer conversation the claim base module enables the user to engage in the conversation with the customer instead of mechanically following a preconfigured script. Further recording and search functions of the enable the user to quickly persist and revisit customer statements and other claim information as the conversation proceeds. In some examples and as discussed in further detail herein claim information can be displayed and sorted according to important categories or timestamp.

In some implementations the claim base module can be realized using one or more components that capture convert extract and administrate claim information provided from one or more input channels e.g. the GUI the input sources . As discussed herein example channels can include manual text entry and or or automated voice recordings of conversations. Information can be automatically extracted from the stream of incoming information and persisted in a searchable format in the claim base module . In some examples an administration component provides basic administration features e.g. database configuration .

In some examples a capture component of the claim base may communicate with different input sources to receive continuous updates. In some examples the capture component can include a message subscription that enables the capture component to register with different input sources to receive continuous updates in the form of messages. In some examples the capture component can poll the input sources for updates in regular intervals and or subscribe to notifications depending on the nature of the input sources.

In some examples a conversion component of the claim base module enables conversion of data e.g. data provided in messages received from respective input sources . In some examples messages can include textual data image data and or audio data. In some examples data could be converted from supported external formats e.g. audio text images into an internal format e.g. mark up . In some examples a plug in mechanism can be provided to register different content converters e.g. optical character recognition OCR for image data voice recognition for audio data .

In some examples a feature extraction component of the claim base module can reduce the data extracted from received messages to statements about features and values based on the domain vocabulary. In some examples different feature extraction algorithms can be registered using a plug in mechanism. The output of feature extraction can be a record including the date at which an event related to the claim occurred one or more recognized features and or the value of each of the one or more recognized features. In some implementations the claim base module can create multiple records per message. The administration component of the claim base may provide basic administration features such as database configuration.

In some implementations the domain vocabulary module is provided in a data store and defines the categories and features of context information processed by the fact checker system . In some examples a domain vocabulary provided by the domain vocabulary module includes a database of keywords grouped in categories corresponding to a particular industry application and or domain. In some examples the domain vocabulary module includes an administration and maintenance interface providing basic functions for creating removing updating and editing categories and features. In some implementations categories are provided as groups of features. For example customer identity can be a category. In some examples features are aspects of a category and support a range of permissible values. For example a customer address can be an aspect of a customer identity. In some examples permissible values for an address must contain a valid street address and postcode. In some implementations the domain vocabulary module provides a persistence and search mechanism for categories and features. A configuration option enables the registration of different persistence and search implementations.

In some implementations keywords of claims stored in the claim base can be extracted using the domain vocabulary. In some examples the domain vocabulary can include definition of terms a range of permissible values of terms and the categories to which terms are associated. In some implementations the domain vocabulary can be populated by an expert according to industry e.g. insurance utilities public sector and domain e.g. direct sales after sales technical support . In some examples an editable default domain vocabulary can be provided. For example the term burn can exist in the domain vocabulary of an insurance company indicating a fire disaster but in the vocabulary of a computer industry the term burn could have a different meaning e.g. storing data on a compact disk CD .

In some implementations the fact base module provides unified access to facts relating to a claim. In some examples each time a claim is entered the fact base module retrieves matching facts for all keywords and or categories identified in the claim. In some examples retrieved facts are coded based on the domain vocabulary provided in the domain vocabulary module . In some examples the fact base module can generate one or more queries based on claim information keywords and or categories associated with a claim and can submit the one or more queries to one or more of the context sources . In response to the one or more queries the fact base module receives information from one or more context sources to identify one or more facts that can be used to evaluate the accuracy of claims received from the customer. In some examples the fact base module is provided as one or more computer executable components and a database stored in computer readable memory. In general the fact base module unifies access to and search of relevant context sources. In this manner the cost of and delays in decision making can be reduced because the user is able to find and use information that might have previously only been accessible to specialized staff. In some instances the users can make decisions at the point of interaction e.g. the call center instead of having to relay the customer to a centralized back office function.

In some implementations the fact base module can be realized using one or more components that capture convert and store context information extracted from the context sources . In some examples an administration component provides basic administration features e.g. database configuration .

In some examples a message subscription component can subscribe to and monitor each of the context sources . In some examples a message conversion component enables conversion of data e.g. data provided in messages received from respective input sources . In some examples messages can include textual data image data and or audio data. In some examples data could be converted from supported external formats e.g. audio text images into an internal format e.g. mark up . In some examples a plug in mechanism can be provided to register different content converters e.g. optical character recognition OCR for image data voice recognition for audio data .

In some examples a feature extraction component of the fact base module can reduce the data extracted from received messages to statements about features and values based on the domain vocabulary. In some examples different feature extraction algorithms can be registered using a plug in mechanism. The output of feature extraction can be a record including one or more facts and data underlying the facts. For example a fact can include the occurrence of a hail storm and data underlying the fact can include the date approximate time approximate duration and approximate location of the hail storm.

In some examples a confidence calculation component of the fact base module can provide a confidence score associated with the received claim information. In some examples the confidence score can reflect a confidence in the accuracy of the claim information provided from the customer. In some examples the confidence calculation component can match selected records from the claim base against records currently contained in the fact base. In some implementations the matching algorithm of the fact base can include the timestamp of records the features to which records relate and the values of these features. In some examples the confidence score can be provided as a probability based on the percentage of claims confirmed by facts for a given category a relative weighting of the claims per category and a relative trustworthiness of the context source.

In some implementations the context sources can be provided as structured or unstructured data sources that can accessed by the fact checker system to retrieve facts. In some examples facts can be retrieved from context sources which can be internal to an organization e.g. ERP CRM SRM and or external information sources such as meteorological data providers providers of financial or company data news services and unstructured content published by social media platforms. For example a data source can include a weather web site that can provide weather information for a location based on a specified date and time. In some implementations the fact base module can retrieve and aggregate facts in defined intervals.

In some implementations the action base module provides self contained actions that can be executed by the user in a particular context. In some examples the actions are registered in the system and can be invoked by means of a service invocation runtime e.g. supporting REST SOAP or RFC . In some examples the action base module can identify one or more relevant actions that can be executed based on information provided from the fact checker engine and the one or more actions can be displayed to the user in the GUI . In some examples the user can select actions displayed within the GUI . In some examples the action base can include a registry of actions encapsulated as software services and a recommendation mechanism that proposes or enforces actions in a given context. In some examples abstraction mechanisms e.g. Web Services can be used to abstract from the underlying infrastructure and can support a variety of protocols e.g. REST SOAP or RFC . In some examples the action base module is provided as one or more computer executable components and a database stored in computer readable memory.

In some implementations the action base module can be realized using one or more components. In some examples an endpoint registration component specifies the capabilities and physical execution parameters of a software service implementing a respective action. In some examples this can include technical information e.g. availability network address service interface authentication mechanisms and non technical information e.g. authorization models and training requirements . In some examples a recommendation mechanism component calculates recommended actions for a given context based on the user credentials the categories for which responses have been provided so far and or the confidence score. In some examples a plug in mechanism provides the ability to implement and register different recommendation algorithms.

In some implementations and as introduced above claim information can be provided to the fact checker engine through the GUI and or from the input sources . For example the user can input claim information using the GUI . In some examples policy information can be provided through one or more of the input sources . For example a customer can provide a verbal description of the automobile damage and or digital pictures illustrating the damage. In some examples the verbal description can be processed using speech recognition algorithms and relevant claim information can be identified. In some examples digital images can be electronically communicated to the computing device and or the fact checker system .

In some implementations the claim data e.g. from the GUI and or the input sources can be stored in the claim base . Claims provided to the claim base can be processed using the domain vocabulary module to identify features e.g. keywords and categories associated with the claims. In some implementations the claim base module provides output to the computing device over the fact checker engine to enable the user to quickly revisit claim information e.g. customer statements displayed in the GUI . In some examples the GUI can sort the claim information for display e.g. based on categories and or timestamps .

The domain vocabulary module receives claim information from the fact checker engine to identify the keywords in a claim and their corresponding categories as described in detail above. In the context of the recurring example a keyword that could be extracted from the filed claim using the domain vocabulary can include automobile which can be categorized as property. 

In some implementations the fact base module receives input from the fact checker engine to verify the validity of a claim. In some examples and as discussed above the fact base module retrieves objective information from the context sources to identify one or more facts. For example a context source relevant to the recurring example can provide hourly meteorological information for Brunswick Ga. for Dec. 12 2012. The fact base module can compare the claim information e.g. hails storm at 3PM on Dec. 12 2012 in Brunswick Ga. to fact data e.g. provided from a meteorological service to generate a confidence score in the particular claim information and or the overall claim information. The fact base module can provide the probability score for display in the GUI over the fact checker engine . Within the context of the recurring example the confidence score of the claim information regarding the hail storm can be 100 for example if the meteorological data indicates that there was indeed a hail storm in Brunswick Ga. at approximately 3PM on Dec. 12 2012 can be 0 for example if the meteorological data indicates that there was not a hail storm in Brunswick Ga. at approximately 3PM on Dec. 12 2012 or can be somewhere between 0 and 100 if the meteorological data indicates that there was a chance that a hail storm occurred in Brunswick Ga. at approximately 3PM on Dec. 12 2012.

The fact checker engine can access the action base module to retrieve one or more actions that can be executed based on the currently provided and fact checked claim information. In this manner the user interacting with the computing device over the GUI can execute fast track actions. For example the action base module can provide example actions of accepting a claim determining insurance coverage for the claims or rejecting the claim. Each action can be displayed in the GUI for user selection.

In some implementations the itemized list of claims can include one or more claim blocks each claim block corresponding to a claim. In the depicted example each claim block includes a claim displayed as syntax . In some examples one or more keywords can be identified in a claim. In the depicted example keywords have been identified and are highlighted e.g. with text highlight color with special font color format bold letters underline etc. . In some examples the user can select a keyword e.g. by clicking on or hovering a pointer over the keyword to reveal one or more facts associated with the particular keyword. In the depicted example a speech bubble displays a fact associated with a claim alleging that a hailstorm occurred on Dec. 12 2012 in Brunswick Ga. the fact in this example disputing the claim.

In some implementations one or more graphics can be displayed in the claim block each graphic reflecting a confidence level in the particular claim. In the depicted example a checkmark can indicate that the respective claim is accurate and an X mark can indicate that the respective claim is inaccurate. For example the claim that a hailstorm occurred on Dec. 12 2012 in Brunswick Ga. can be determined to be inaccurate in view of the fact that the weather in Brunswick Ga. was sunny with no storms on Dec. 12 2012. Consequently an X mark graphic is displayed in the claim block .

In some examples the claim blocks can also include tags corresponding to one or more categories that have been identified for the respective claims. In some examples a claim block can display a generic tag if a category cannot be automatically identified for the particular claim. The user can select e.g. click on a generic tag to assign a category to the claim.

In some implementations a user can select a button e.g. labeled More claims to see more and or different claim boxes . For example space in the GUI for displaying claim blocks can be limited. Consequently only a certain number of claim blocks can displayed in the GUI at a given time. In some implementations sorting options can be provided to define an order in which the claim blocks are displayed. Although example sorting parameters e.g. sort by timestamp sort by category are displayed additional or other sorting parameters can be provided. In the depicted example the claim blocks are displayed in descending order based on time e.g. most recently received claim is displayed at the top of the itemized claim list 

In some implementations the GUI can display the confidence score which could guide the user in selecting the appropriate actions as described in detail above. In some examples the confidence score can be calculated based on a number of claim determined to be accurate. In the depicted example it is determined that Claim and Claim are determined to be accurate while Claim is determined to be inaccurate. Consequently the confidence score of 66 can reflect the fact that two thirds of the currently provided claims have been determined to be accurate.

In some implementations the itemized list of actions can include one or more action blocks . In some examples each action block represents an action that the user is able and or authorized to initiate execution of based on the currently provided claims facts and or confidence score. In the depicted example each action block includes an action displayed as a syntax and a checkbox . In some examples the syntax indicates the determined authorized action and the user can select a checkbox within one or more action blocks . In some examples after selecting one or more actions using the included checkboxes the user can initiate execution of the respective actions by clicking a commit button .

In some implementations the claim input block enables the user to input claim information based on for example an on going conversation with a customer. In some examples the claim input block includes an input box and a commit button . In some examples the user can input claim information into the input box and can commit the claim information as a claim by selecting e.g. clicking on the commit button . In some examples text completion can be provided as the user provides input to the input box such that suggested claim information is displayed in a drop down menu . In this manner the user can select suggested claim information from the drop down menu to more quickly input claim information to the fact checker system. In some examples the drop down menu includes a scrollbar that enables the user to scroll through the suggested claim information.

Claim information is received . For example claim information can be input by one or more input sources e.g. the GUI and or the input sources of and can be received by a fact checker system e.g. the fact checker system of . A claim is generated based on the claim information and is stored in a claim base . For example the fact checker engine can generate the claim based on the received claim information and can provide the claim for storage in a claim base of the claim base module . The claim is coded based on a domain vocabulary . For example the claim information can be processed by the domain vocabulary module to identify one or more keywords and or one or more categories based on the domain vocabulary. The one or more keywords and or the one or more categories can be associated with the claim and can be stored as part of the claim in the claim base.

One or more facts relevant to the claim are identified . For example the fact base module can process the claim information the one or more keywords and or the one or more categories associated with the claim to identify one or more facts that are relevant to the claim. In some examples the one or more facts are retrieved from the one or more context sources. For example the fact base module can generate one or more queries based on the claim information the one or more keywords and or the one or more categories associated with the claim each of the one or more queries being provided to context source s . In response to the one or more queries the context source s can provide one or more facts to the fact base module . A confidence score is determined . For example the fact checker engine and or the fact base module can determine the confidence score based on one or more claims and one or more facts. In some examples the confidence score can be provided as a ratio of a number of accurate claims to a total number of claims. One or more actions are identified . For example the action base module can identify one or more actions based on claim information of one or more claims one or more facts associated with each of the one or more claims and or the confidence score. In some examples the one or more actions can be identified based on an authorization level associated with the user e.g. the user of . One or more claims one or more actions and the confidence score are provided for display . For example the one or more claims the one or more actions and the confidence score can be provided for display in the GUI of .

Implementations of the present disclosure enable customer facing CSRs to make on the spot decisions based on information provided during a customer conversation. In this manner the quality and efficiency of resolving customer concerns are enhanced having a positive effect on customer experience and retention. Further the fact checker system of the present disclosure protects organizations from risk by checking and providing a confidence level in information provided by a customer as well as by providing actions that can be executed in view of the provided customer information and the confidence level thereon. Further implementations of the present disclosure can alleviate a need for use of a script or pre defined conversation schema during customer user interactions. Implementations of the present disclosure can reduce delays by enabling users to find and use information that was previously only accessible to specialised staff. In some instances users can make decisions at the point of interaction e.g. call center shopfront instead of having to relay the customer to a centralised back office function. Implementations of the present disclosure further enable consistent analysis of claims and rapid verification of facts.

Referring now to a schematic diagram of an example computing system is provided. The system can be used for the operations described in association with the implementations described herein. For example the system may be included in any or all of the server components discussed herein. The system includes a processor a memory a storage device and an input output device . Each of the components and are interconnected using a system bus . The processor is capable of processing instructions for execution within the system . In one implementation the processor is a single threaded processor. In another implementation the processor is a multi threaded processor. The processor is capable of processing instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a user interface on the input output device .

The memory stores information within the system . In one implementation the memory is a computer readable medium. In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit. The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the system . In one implementation the storage device is a computer readable medium. In various different implementations the storage device may be a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device. The input output device provides input output operations for the system . In one implementation the input output device includes a keyboard and or pointing device. In another implementation the input output device includes a display unit for displaying graphical user interfaces.

The features described can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The apparatus can be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device for execution by a programmable processor and method steps can be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions of the described implementations by operating on input data and generating output. The described features can be implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. A computer program is a set of instructions that can be used directly or indirectly in a computer to perform a certain activity or bring about a certain result. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.

Suitable processors for the execution of a program of instructions include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and the sole processor or one of multiple processors of any kind of computer. Generally a processor receives instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer also includes or is operatively coupled to communicate with one or more mass storage devices for storing data files such devices include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

To provide for interaction with a user the features can be implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer.

The features can be implemented in a computer system that includes a back end component such as a data server or that includes a middleware component such as an application server or an Internet server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser or any combination of them. The components of the system can be connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Examples of communication networks include e.g. a LAN a WAN and the computers and networks forming the Internet.

The computer system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network such as the described one. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

In addition the logic flows depicted in the figures do not require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In addition other steps may be provided or steps may be eliminated from the described flows and other components may be added to or removed from the described systems. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

A number of implementations of the present disclosure have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

