---

title: Methods and systems for robotic proactive informational retrieval from ambient context
abstract: Methods and systems are provided that may help a robot provide contextual filtering of environmental information, such that the robot may be able to base its actions upon environmental data that is relevant to the device's context.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08594845&OS=08594845&RS=08594845
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08594845
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120507
---
The present disclosure claims priority to U.S. Patent Application No. 61 483 295 filed on May 6 2011 and to U.S. Patent Application No. 61 593 095 filed on Jan. 31 2012 the entire contents of which are herein incorporated by reference.

Cloud computing refers to provision of computational resources via a computer network. In a traditional model of computing both data and software are fully contained on a user s computer. In cloud computing however the user s computer may contain relatively little software or data perhaps a minimal operating system and web browser for example and may serve as a display terminal for processes occurring on a network of computers. A common shorthand provided for a cloud computing service or even an aggregation of existing cloud services is the cloud. 

Cloud computing has been referred to as client server computing however there may be distinctions between general cloud computing and client server computing. For example client server computing may include a distributed application structure that partitions tasks or workloads between providers of a resource or service e.g. servers and service requesters e.g. clients . Client server computing generally involves a one to one relationship between the server and the client whereas cloud computing includes generic services that can be accessed by generic clients e.g. a one to one relationship or connection may not be required . Thus cloud computing generally includes client server computing and additional services and functionality.

Cloud computing may free users from certain hardware and software installation and maintenance tasks through use of simpler hardware on the user s computer that accesses a vast network of computing resources e.g. processors hard drives . Sharing of resources may reduce cost to individuals. Thus any computer connected to the cloud may be connected to the same pool of computing power applications and files. Users can store and access personal files such as music pictures videos and bookmarks or play games or use productivity applications on a remote server rather than physically carrying around a storage medium such as a DVD or thumb drive.

Through cloud computing data across multiple servers can be synchronized around the world allowing for collaborative work on one file or project from multiple users around the world for example. To illustrate a user may open a browser and connect to a host of web servers that run user interface software that collect commands from the user and interpret the commands into commands on the servers. The servers may then handle the computing based on these commands and can either store or retrieve information from database servers or file servers and display an updated page to the user.

In one aspect an example method involves a determining by a robotic device that includes one or more sensory devices a context of the robotic device b receiving an environmental input via at least one of the sensory devices wherein the environmental input includes environmental data that relates to an environment of the robotic device c determining that the environmental data is relevant to the context of the robotic device and d in response to determining that the environmental data is relevant to the context of the robotic device performing by the robotic device an output function based on the environmental data.

In another aspect a computer readable medium may have stored thereon instructions that are executable by a robotic device that includes at least one sensory device. The instructions are executable to cause the robotic device to perform functions comprising a determining by a robotic device that includes one or more sensory devices a context of the robotic device b receiving an environmental input via at least one of the sensory devices wherein the environmental input includes environmental data that relates to an environment of the robotic device c determining based on predefined concept data for the context of the robotic device that the environmental data is relevant to the context of the robotic device and d in response to determining that the environmental data is relevant to the context of the robotic device performing by the robotic device an output function based on the environmental data.

In yet another aspect an example robotic device includes i one or more processors ii one or more sensors coupled to the one or more processors and configured to capture environmental data about an environment in a vicinity of the sensor or a user and iii memory including instructions stored thereon executable by the one or more processors to perform functions comprising a determining a context of the robotic device b receiving an environmental input via at least one of the sensors wherein the environmental input includes environmental data that relates to an environment of the robotic device c determining based on predefined concept data for the context of the robotic device that the environmental data is relevant to the context of the robotic device and d in response to determining that the environmental data is relevant to the context of the robotic device determining an output function based on the environmental data.

These as well as other aspects advantages and alternatives will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art by reading the following detailed description with reference where appropriate to the accompanying drawings.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying Figures which form a part hereof. In the Figures similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description figures and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the figures can be arranged substituted combined separated and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.

Example embodiments may help to provide for contextual filtering by a robotic device. For example a robotic device which may also be referred to as a robot can determine its context based on sensory data relating to its environment e.g. environmental data and or based on other information. Such environmental data may be acquired via various types of sensors and may take various forms such as audio that includes speech from nearby persons and or images that capture text or objects in the vicinity of the device for example. The robotic device may analyze and determine what environmental data is relevant to the device s context and or what environmental data is not relevant. Accordingly the robotic device may filter out environmental data that is not relevant to the device s context and take appropriate actions based on the environmental data that is relevant.

For instance consider the scenario where a robotic device is located in a lecture hall where a presenter is discussing an algorithm for robotic intelligence using neuronet building blocks. The device may therefore determine that its context is Robotic Learning or discourse related to robotic learning. Further a side conversation is also occurring between persons sitting next to the robotic device in the lecture hall which relates to an upcoming football game. In this scenario the robotic device may record or be provided with audio data that includes the speech relating to robotic intelligence as well as the speech relating to the football game. The robotic device may therefore determine that the speech related to robotic intelligence is relevant to the context of Robotic Learning while the speech related to the football game is not. Accordingly the device may filter out speech relating to the football game and or may act upon speech related to robotic intelligence. For example a search query may be formulated based on words and or phrases included in the speech related to robotic intelligence so that the robotic device can display the search results or information based on the search results on its display. Other examples are also possible.

To facilitate collection of environmental data a robotic device may be configured for real time data sensing or gathering. For example a robotic device may acquire audio data from its environment and or image data that captures aspects of its environment e.g. still images and or video . The robotic device may further have a real time textual data sensing and gathering capabilities. Such capabilities may be provided by speech to text functionality document recognition and processing functionality and electronic data transmission detection and processing. Further such capabilities may be utilized to extract textual information from environmental data such as applying a speech to text process to audio data and or by recognizing text in image data e.g. text in a document text on a nearby LCD display text on a nearby sign etc. .

Further described herein are examples of software systems and related hardware systems including a basic application robot and an interface for data and or command input for the robot for operating sensing hardware audio text recognition electronic data processing visual processing sensed data obtained engaging with a remote database or cloud for relational information and providing interfaces that allow for user interaction.

The methods described herein may be provided in a form of instructions stored on a non transitory computer readable medium that when executed by a computing device causes the computing device to perform functions of the method. Further examples may also include articles of manufacture including tangible computer readable media that have computer readable instructions encoded thereon and the instructions may comprise instructions to perform functions of the methods described herein.

The computer readable medium may include non transitory computer readable media for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable medium may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium for example or a tangible storage medium.

In addition circuitry may be provided that is wired to perform logical functions in any processes or methods described herein.

In still further examples any type of devices may be used or configured to perform logical functions in any processes or methods described herein.

In yet further examples any type of devices may be used or configured as means for performing functions of any of the methods described herein or any portions of the methods described herein .

Herein a robotic device or robot may be a device that has a computing ability to sense its environment via various sensors and or to interact with its surroundings with an actuation capability e.g. electromechanical capabilities . As such a user device may be configured as a robot including various sensors and devices in the forms of modules. Further different modules may be added or removed from robot depending upon the particular implementation. In some examples a robot may be configured to receive a second device e.g. via an interface or dock such as mobile phone that may be configured to function as an accessory or a brain of the robot.

Methods and systems disclosed herein may involve user interactions over the cloud. Herein such interactions may involve communications between a robotic device and cloud computing devices. Cloud based computing generally refers to networked computer architectures in which application execution and storage may be divided to some extent between user and server devices.

In examples described herein a robot may interact with the cloud to perform any number of actions such as to share information with other cloud computing devices. Within examples a robot may interact with a user in a manner that is based upon many types of received information. A robot may access a user device to determine or identify information about a user or related to the ambient environment which may be for example a meeting. A robot may further receive data associated with the ambient environment from one or more sources such as data received from sensors and or through electronic inputs.

In particular the robot may gain access to information regarding the immediate environment or circumstances through local sensing as well as a cloud and or a network. The robot thus would be linked to a cloud to gain access to information stored in the cloud extracting that information depending upon analysis of inputs being received by the robot.

Referring now to the Figures is an example system for cloud based computing. Cloud based computing generally refers to networked computer architectures in which application execution and storage may be divided to some extent between client and server devices. A cloud may refer to a service or group of services accessible over a network e.g. Internet by client and server devices for example.

In one example any computer connected to the cloud may be connected to the same pool of computing power applications and files. Thus cloud computing enables a shared pool of configurable computing resources e.g. networks servers storage applications and services that can be provisioned and released with minimal management effort or service provider interaction. Users can store and access personal files such as music pictures videos and bookmarks or play games or use productivity applications on a remote server rather than physically carrying around a storage medium.

As an example in contrast to a predominately client based or server based application a cloud based application may store copies of data and or executable program logic at remote server devices while allowing user devices to download at least some of this data and program logic as needed for execution at the user devices. In some examples downloaded data and program logic can be tailored to capabilities of specific user devices e.g. a personal computer tablet or mobile phone or robot accessing the cloud based application. In addition dividing application execution and storage between the client and server devices allows more processing to be performed by the server devices taking advantage of server devices processing power and capability for example.

Cloud based computing can also refer to distributed computing architectures in which data and program logic for a cloud based application are shared between one or more user devices and or server devices on a near real time basis. Parts of this data and program logic may be dynamically delivered as needed or otherwise to various clients accessing the cloud based application. Details of the architecture may be transparent to users of user devices. Thus a PC user or robot user device accessing a cloud based application may not be aware that the PC or robot downloads program logic and or data from the server devices or that the PC or robot offloads processing or storage functions to the server devices for example.

In a cloud includes a cloud service a cloud platform a cloud infrastructure and a database . The cloud may include more of fewer components and each of the cloud service the cloud platform the cloud infrastructure and the database may comprise multiple elements as well. Thus one or more of the described functions of the system may be divided up into additional functional or physical components or combined into fewer functional or physical components. In some further examples additional functional and or physical components may be added to the examples illustrated by . Delivery of cloud computing may involve multiple cloud components communicating with each other over application programming interfaces such as web services and three tier architectures for example.

The cloud may represent a networked computer architecture and in one example the cloud service represents a queue for handling requests from user devices. The cloud platform may include a front end of the cloud and may be coupled to the cloud service to perform functions to interact with user devices. The cloud platform may include applications used to access the cloud via a user interface such as a web browser. The cloud infrastructure may include service application of billing components of the cloud and thus may interact with the cloud service . The database may represent storage capabilities by the cloud and thus may be accessed by any of the cloud service the cloud platform and or the infrastructure .

The system includes a number of user devices coupled to or configured to be capable of communicating with components of the cloud . For example a computer a mobile device a host and a robot client are shown coupled to the cloud . Of course more or fewer user devices may be coupled to the cloud . In addition different types of user devices may be coupled to the cloud . For example any of the user devices may generally comprise a display system memory and a processor.

The computer may be any type of computing device e.g. PC laptop computer and the mobile device may be any type of mobile computing device e.g. laptop mobile telephone cellular telephone .

The host may be any type of computing device or transmitter including a laptop computer a mobile telephone that is configured to transmit data to the cloud .

The robot client may comprise any computing device that has connection abilities to the cloud and that has an actuation capability e.g. electromechanical capabilities . A robot may further be a combination of computing devices. In some examples the robot may collect data and upload the data to the cloud . The cloud may be configured to perform calculations or analysis on the data and return processed data to the robot client . In some examples as shown in the cloud may include a computer that is not co located with the robot client . In other examples the robot client may send data to a second client e.g. computer for processing.

Any of the user devices may include additional components. For example the robot client may include one or more sensors such as a gyroscope or an accelerometer to measure movement of the robot client . Other sensors may further include any of Global Positioning System GPS receivers infrared sensors optical sensors biosensors Radio Frequency identification RFID systems wireless sensors and or compasses among others for example.

In addition any of the user devices may include an integrated user interface UI that allows a user to interact with the device. For example the robot client may include various buttons and or a touchscreen interface that allow a user to provide input. As another example the robot user device may include a microphone configured to receive voice commands from a user. Furthermore the robot client may include one or more interfaces that allow various types of user interface devices to be connected to the robot client .

In communication links between user devices and the cloud may include wired connections such as a serial or parallel bus. Communication links may also be wireless links such as link which may include Bluetooth IEEE 802.11 IEEE 802.11 may refer to IEEE 802.11 2007 IEEE 802.11n 2009 or any other IEEE 802.11 revision or other wireless based communication links.

In other examples the system may include access points through which the user devices may communicate with the cloud . Access points may take various forms for example an access point may take the form of a wireless access point WAP or wireless router. As another example if a user device connects using a cellular air interface protocol such as a CDMA or GSM protocol an access point may be a base station in a cellular network that provides Internet connectivity via the cellular network.

As such the user devices may include a wired or wireless network interface through which the user devices can connect to the cloud or access points . As an example the user devices may be configured to use one or more protocols such as 802.11 802.16 WiMAX LTE GSM GPRS CDMA EV DO and or HSPDA among others. Furthermore the user devices may be configured to use multiple wired and or wireless protocols such as 3G or 4G data connectivity using a cellular communication protocol e.g. CDMA GSM or WiMAX as well as for WiFi connectivity using 802.11 . Other examples are also possible.

In one example the storage may be used for compiling data from various sensors of the robot and storing program instructions. The processor may be coupled to the storage and may be configured to control the robot based on the program instructions. The processor may also be able to interpret data from the various sensors on the robot. Example sensors may include smoke sensors light sensors radio sensors infrared sensors microphones speakers gyroscopes accelerometers a camera radar capacitive sensors and touch sensors.

The user device may also have components or devices that allow the user device to interact with its environment. For example the user device may have mechanical actuators such as motors wheels movable arms that enable the user device to move or interact with the environment.

In some examples various sensors and devices on the user device may be modules. Different modules may be added or removed from a user device depending on requirements. For example in a low power situation a robot may have fewer modules to reduce power usages. However additional sensors may be added as needed. To increase an amount of data a robot may be able to collect additional sensors may be added for example.

In some examples the user device may be configured to receive a device such as device that includes the processor the storage and the sensors . For example the user device may be a robot that has a number of mechanical actuators e.g. a movable base and the robot may be configured to receive a mobile telephone to function as the brains or control components of the robot. The device may be considered a module of the robot. The device may be physically attached to the robot. For example a mobile phone may sit on a robot s chest and form an interactive display. The device may provide a robot with sensors a wireless link and processing capabilities for example. The device may allow a user to download new routines for his or her robot from the cloud.

In some examples the user device may be coupled to a mobile or cellular telephone to provide additional sensing capabilities. The cellular phone may not be physically attached to the robot but may be coupled to the robot wirelessly. For example a low cost robot may omit a direct connection to the Internet. This robot may be able to connect to a user s cellular phone via a wireless technology e.g. Bluetooth to be able to access the internet. The robot may be able to access various sensors and communication means of the cellular phone. The robot may not need as many sensors to be physically provided on the robot however the robot may be able to keep the same or similar functionality.

Thus the user device may include mechanical robot features and may be configured to receive the device e.g. a mobile phone which can provide additional peripheral components to the device such as any of an accelerometer gyroscope compass GPS camera WiFi connection a touch screen that are included within the device .

In one example the robot may be a toy with only limited mechanical functionality and by connecting device to the robot the toy robot may now be capable of performing a number of functions with the aid of the device and or the cloud. In this manner the robot or components of a robot can be attached to a mobile phone to transform the mobile phone into a robot e.g. with legs arms that is connected to a server to cause operation functions of the robot.

The mountable device may further be configured to maximize runtime usage of the robot e.g. if the robot could learn what happens to cause the user to turn the toy off or set the toy down the device may be configured to perform functions to counteract such occurrences .

Any of the robots illustrated in may be configured to operate according to a robot operating system e.g. an operating system designed for specific functions of the robot . A robot operating system may provide libraries and tools e.g. hardware abstraction device drivers visualizers message passing package management to enable robot applications. Examples of robot operating systems include open source software such as ROS robot operating system DROS or ARCOS advanced robotics control operating system proprietary software such as the robotic development platform ESRP from Evolution Robotics and MRDS Microsoft Robotics Developer Studio . A robot operating system may include publish and subscribe functionality and may also include functionality to control components of the robot such as head tracking base movement e.g. velocity control navigation framework .

As shown any of the modules may be interconnected and or may communicate to receive data or instructions from each other so as to provide a specific output or functionality for the robot.

In one example the robot may send data to a cloud for data processing and in another example the robot may receive data from the cloud. The data received from the cloud may be in many different forms. The received data may be a processed form of data the robot sent to the cloud. The received data may also come from sources other than the robot. For example the cloud may have access to other sensors other robots and the Internet.

The cloud may receive input from several robots. Data from each robot may be compiled into a larger data set. For example the robot may take a picture of a slide being projected or displayed during a presentation and upload the picture to the cloud . An object recognition program in the cloud may be configured to identify information or data in the picture and provide data results to all the robots connected to the cloud about the results as well as possibly about other characteristics of the results. Thus every robot may be able to know attributes of something set forth in a photo uploaded by the robot .

The robots and may perform any number of actions with an area people and or other robots. In one example each robot and has WiFi or other network based connectivity and will upload publish data to the cloud that can then be shared with any other robot. In this manner each robot and shares experiences with each other to enable learned behaviors. For example the robot may be in one part of a room and pick up one conversation and can inform the other robots and in the room or elsewhere through the cloud of that conversation. Each robot and will have access to real time up to date data. In another example the robot can download data indicating images seen by the other robots and documents projections monitor screens to help the robot identify data for a possible query using various views e.g. in instances in which the robots and have captured images of the objects from a different perspective .

In still another example the robot may build a map of an area and the robot can download the map to have knowledge of the area. Similarly the robot could update the map created by the robot with new information about the area e.g. the hallway now has boxes or other obstacles or with new information collected from sensors that the robot may not have had e.g. the robot may record and add temperature data to the map if the robot did not have a temperature sensor . Overall the robots and may be configured to share data that is collected to enable faster adaptation such that each robot and can build upon a learned experience of a previous robot. Sharing and adaptation capabilities enable a variety of applications based on a variety of inputs data received from the robots and .

In one example the cloud may include store or provide access to a database of information and the database may be accessible by all the robots and . The database may include information serving to identify images sensed and details of the images e.g. mass properties shape instructions for use historical content any detail that may be associated with the object that can be accessed by the robots and to perform object recognition.

In addition the database may include information about images that can be used to distinguish objects or things in the image. For example the database may include general information regarding an object e.g. such as a computer and additionally information regarding a specific computer e.g. a model number details or technical specifications of a specific model . Each image may include information accessible in the database about object details in the image object distinguishing characteristics or a tuple space for objects that can be accessed. Each object may further include information in the database in an ordered list for example. In further examples the database may include a global unique identifier GUID for objects identified in the database e.g. to enable distinguishing between specific objects and the GUID may be associated with any characteristics or information describing the object. Thus a robot may be configured to access the database to receive information generally distinguishing objects e.g. a baseball vs. a melon and to receive information that may distinguish between specific objects e.g. two different computers .

Note that the foregoing discussion likewise translates to data captured by audio and textual means. Words and phrases perform similar target functions to the foregoing objects. 

The database may be accessible by all robots through the cloud or alternatively directly accessible by all robots without communication through the cloud . The database may thus be a shared knowledge base that is stored in the cloud .

Thus in some examples robots may share new or learned data and information through the cloud . The cloud may have a server that stores robot learned activities resulting in a shared knowledge base of data and heuristics for interactions e.g. a robot app store . Specifically a given robot may perform actions and build a query and then the robot can upload the query to the cloud to obtain knowledge and information which can then be shared with all other robots. In this example a transportation of the given robot s consciousness can be made through the cloud from one robot to another.

Thus within examples the robots and may share information through the cloud and may access the database .

As mentioned robots and possibly other types of user computing devices may be configured to contextually filter environmental data so as to act upon environmental data that is relevant to the device s context.

The robot may be provided with one or more sensory inputs or data inputs. These could be in the form of one or more audio inputs for detecting spoken words or relevant sounds in the ambient environment. Speech recognition software may be used to convert spoken words or dialogue into a machine readable or usable form such as text input in real time. Data inputs could further include text resolution hardware and software. For example the robotic device may be operable to analyze image data capturing its environment and read text that is printed in a document or displayed on a graphic display in the device s environment. Further the robotic device text resolution software may be implemented so as to analyze text from electronic documents such as incoming e mails instant messages IMs word processing applications among other possibilities.

The sensed data may be filtered parsed or the like in order to establish some basis for formulating a potentially useful query or query. In particular sensed data may be analyzed to determine whether or not it relates to the device s context e.g. to the current environmental situation in which the device is operating .

For example the filtering may involve categorizing and or weighing the various sensed data and determining the relevancy of the data to the current context. The current context may be determined for example based on some overarching aspect or theme of event or features in the device s environment. For instance the context of the meeting may be Robotic Learning. A presenter may be discussing an algorithm for robotic intelligence using neuronet building blocks while a conversation between certain participants has devolved into a debate on an upcoming football game. The robot would preferably filter out the football game as noise and focus upon the robotic neuronet building blocks discourse for data to formulate a query. Filtering may be customizable by a user to allow refinement or alternatively expansion of queries and or retrieved relational information. The robot could for instance respond to multiple discourses occurring in parallel.

Parsing and or filtering may involve identifying and or eliminating noise or low value words and phrases as well as separating sensed data into smaller components. In the case of audio or textual phrases this may be based upon matching to concepts. The processing of sensed data may operate according to an algorithm designed to identify phrases of up to a predetermined length and or comprising words indicative of concepts. Fuzzy logic may be involved in filtering and formulating the query or queries. This could include a database of predefined concepts. From a matching of contextual concepts drawn from the phrases one or more queries may result. Of course other mechanisms processes and methods could be employed to generate the query or queries.

Robot may be provided with a visual sensing capability as in the form of a camera or video monitor in order to acquire image data of its environment. The robot may apply various text recognition techniques to extract textual environmental data from the image data. Additionally or alternatively the robot may apply image processing techniques such as various object recognition techniques visual search techniques and or facial recognition techniques to extract visual environmental data from the image data.

In a further aspect audio sensors may be used to collect sound or audio data. These could be a microphone or microphone array that is integrated in or attached to the robotic device or that is otherwise arranged to sense sound in the environment in which the robot is operating.

In a robot is shown as operating in an environment where a meeting is occurring. In the meeting multiple individuals and are interacting. This includes spoken words and sounds indicated by word balloons and a projected display on a video monitor . The video display could be of images text and so forth. Data could be further obtained through accessing a user device such as a PDA smart phone or the like as well as a PC laptop or other computer .

The environmental input that is sensed and captured from the environment may be utilized by robot and or may be communicated to the cloud to determine a context of the robot . For example the robot and or a cloud computing device may glean from the spoken discourse that the speaker is addressing a topic on the portrayal of simians in popular movies. The robot and or a cloud computing device may also analyze visual data e.g. still images or video capturing its surroundings and detect that monitor is displaying an image from a movie entitled Escape from a World Ruled by Apes. Based on this information the robot may determine its context to be the discussion of simians in popular movies. Note that this determination may simply involve the robot sending the sensed data to a cloud computing device and receiving an indication of the context in response or might involve the robot performing the analysis to derive its context from the sensed data and or other information.

In a further aspect note that robot and or a cloud computing may use various techniques to determine the robot s context which may be based on other types of information in addition or in the alternative to sensed data from the robot s environment. Additional examples for determining a device s context are provided in section 5 below.

Additionally robot and or a cloud computing device may analyze the environmental input that is sensed and or captured from a robotic device s environment in view of the device s context to extract filter data that may be useful in formulating a query to obtain relational information to what has been sensed. For example one of the individuals may pose a question regarding human like emotions in the portrayal of simians. The robot may receive and perform speech to text processing on environmental audio data that includes this question and then determine that this question or words or phrases therefrom are relevant to the current context of a discussion of simians in popular movies. As a result robot may formulate a search query based on this question or relevant words or phrases therefrom e.g. to search for other movies that have portrayed simians and or emotions shown by simians therein.

A query may then be sent to an informational resource shown in this embodiment as cloud . Sent is used in the sense of an electronic interaction or interchange whereby the query is used to obtain some kind of matching or logically related relational information in response to the query. The relational information obtained or content is then returned to the robot . In this example it may be a clip from a movie about a prehistoric ape that runs wild in a large city showing the facial expressions of the ape in the context of interacting with a human. The robot can then interject this clip or content into the discourse in real time such as initiating a video feed to the laptop of the presenter to allow the presenter to decide whether to display the clip on monitor . Alternatively the clip could be automatically displayed on the monitor on a display of robot and or on a display of user device . Besides displaying relational information visually textually or audibly the robot may also manually provide the information as by retrieving a document or thing and providing that physical item to a user.

In a further aspect robot may communicate with a user device either directly using wired or wireless connections or through a cloud . For example the user device may be coupled to the cloud using wired or wireless connections and the robot may access the user device through the cloud .

The user device may be any of a computer desktop or laptop a mobile phone a cellular telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a tablet computer or other mobile computing devices. Still further the user device may include other devices such as a digital video recorder DVR television computing devices or any type of cloud computing device or device with connectivity to the cloud.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein the flowchart shows functionality and operation of one possible implementation of present embodiments. In this regard each block may represent a module a segment or a portion of program code which includes one or more instructions executable by a processor for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. The program code may be stored on any type of computer readable medium for example such as a storage device including a disk or hard drive. The computer readable medium may include non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that stores data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable medium may also include non transitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium for example or a tangible storage device.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein each block in may represent circuitry that is wired to perform the specific logical functions in the process.

At block method involves a computing device e.g. a robotic device determining the context of the robotic device. Various techniques may be used to determine the context of the robotic device such as those described above in reference to and below in section 5 below.

Method further involves a computing device receiving environmental input which includes environmental data that relates to the environment of the robotic device as shown by block . In an example a robot may receive and or capture image data e.g. video or still images . Such image data may be captured by any number of sensors such as a camera still pictures or video feeds or an infrared projector. A robot may also capture and or receive audio input electronic data and or other forms of data related to the robot s environment e.g. data from proximity sensors temperature data etc. .

At block of method the computing device determines that the environmental data is relevant to the context of the robotic device. Then in response to determining that the environmental data is relevant to the context of the robotic device the robotic device performs an output function based on the environmental data as shown by block .

At block a robotic device and or a cloud computing device may use various techniques to determine whether or not particular environmental data is relevant to the context of the robotic device. For example a robotic device may execute program instruction to parse or filter the environmental data based on predefined filter criteria for the particular context. Such contextual filter criteria may specify for example certain words or phrases that when spoken in the device s environment are considered relevant to the particular context. As another example contextual filter criteria may specify or certain objects features or persons that when present in the device s environment are considered relevant to the particular context.

At block a robotic device may perform various output functions. For example the robotic device may formulate a search query based on the relevant environmental data and or request a search that is based at least in part on the detected environmental information e.g. by sending a search request to the cloud . The output function may further involve the robotic device receiving search results that relate to the detected environmental information and initiating an action based on the received search results. For example the robotic device may automatically display the search results in its graphic display or send the search results to another computing device that is associated with the robotic device for display by the other computing device.

In an example embodiment the search query or queries may be sent to the cloud e.g. a cloud computing device or devices so that a search can be performed. In the cloud the search query may be processed by a cloud based computing system which uses an informational or resource database to perform a search. This may involve finding matching information as well as logically related information to the query referred to collectively herein as relational information to the real time discussion. The relational information is then retrieved by the robot and interjected or presented into the discussion in real time as by displaying or otherwise delivering the relational information to the user or users the individuals participating in the discussion . All of the data sensing and gathering query formulation query processing and retrieval and presentation are most preferably accomplished by the robot without any command input from the user. In this sense the robotic device may be considered to be operating proactively to the sensed environmental data.

As another example of an output function that may be performed at block the robotic device may interact with an object or person in the environment of the robotic device. For example the robotic device may perform physical actions such moving to a file cabinet and retrieving a paper file that relates to the environmental data. Other examples of output functions are also possible.

Various techniques may be used to determine the context of a robotic device. For example a robotic device and or a cloud based server may be configured to use environmental data that is sensed by a robotic device and or other devices that are in the vicinity of the robotic device. Other information may also be utilized to determine context.

In an example embodiment a context of a robotic device may be determined based on various context signals or combinations of context signals. A context signal may be any signal that provides a measurement or otherwise provides information pertaining to the state or the environment associated with a certain subject e.g. with a certain user device event etc. . For example a robotic device and or a cloud based server may be configured to use environmental data that is sensed by a robotic device and or other devices that are in the vicinity of the robotic device. Other information may also be utilized to determine context.

Note that a certain user account or user accounts may be associated with a robotic device e.g. a user account or user profile for the owner of the device . Therefore information from such a user account or otherwise related to an associated user may also be used to determine the context of a robotic device. For example context signals may be obtained or derived from sources such as a user s computer based calendar blog webpage social network account and or e mail account among others. For instance context signals may be provided by user s calendar entries e mail messages and social network profile messages posts and or tweets. Further in some embodiments similar context signals may be obtained or derived from other users computer based calendars blogs webpages social network accounts and or e mail accounts who are listed in a user s electronic contact list listed as a friend in a user s social network or otherwise associated with the user provided such users have opted in to share such context information .

In some instances a device s context may be a state associated with a particular context signals or set of context signals. However a context may also be abstracted from the context signals upon which it is based. As such a context may also be a data based description or characterization of an environment or state that is determined or derived from one or more context signals. For example contexts may take the form of data indicating environment or state information such as at home at work in a car indoors outside in a meeting etc. Furthermore a context may be a qualitative or quantitative indication that is determined based on one or more context signals. For example context signals indicating that that it is 6 30 AM on a weekday and that a user is located at their home may be used to determine the context that the user is getting ready for work. 

Many types of information from many different sources may be used as context signals or provide information that can be used to determine the context of a robotic device. For example context signals may include a the current time b the current date c the current day of the week d the current month e the current season f a time of a future event or future context g a date of a future event or future context h a day of the week of a future event or future context i a month of a future event or future context j a season of a future event or future context k a time of a past event or past context l a date of a past event or past context m a day of the week of a past event or past context n a month of a past event or past context o a season of a past event or past context ambient temperature near the device p a current future and or past weather forecast at or near the device s location q information on user s calendar such as information regarding events or statuses of a user or a user s friends r information accessible via a user s social networking account such as information relating a user s status statuses of a user s friends in a social network group and or communications between the user and the users friends s noise level or any recognizable sounds detected in the device s environment t items that are currently detected in the device s environment u items that have been detected in the past in the device s environment v items that other devices associated with a robotic device w information derived from cross referencing any two or more of information on a user s calendar information available via a user s social networking account and or other context signals or sources of context information x health statistics or characterizations of a user s current health e.g. whether a user has a fever or whether a user just woke up from being asleep and y a user s recent context as determined from sensors on or near the user and or other sources of context information z a current location aa a past location and or bb a future location among others. Those skilled in the art will understand that the above list of possible context signals and sources of context information is not intended to be limiting and that other context signals and or sources of context information are possible in addition or in the alternative to those listed above.

It should be understood that the above examples of contexts context signals techniques for determining a context and or techniques for using context when selecting an advertisement are provided for illustrative purposes and are not intended to be limiting. Other examples and or techniques are also possible.

It should be understood that arrangements described herein are for purposes of example only. As such those skilled in the art will appreciate that other arrangements and other elements e.g. machines interfaces functions orders and groupings of functions can be used instead and some elements may be omitted altogether according to the desired results. Further many of the elements that are described are functional entities that may be implemented as discrete or distributed components or in conjunction with other components in any suitable combination and location.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope being indicated by the following claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

