---

title: System and method for determining similar users
abstract: A method and system for determining similar users may include receiving information for a source user, the information including at least one topic and a user value for each topic, where the value represents how strongly the user is associated with that topic. Similarity scores may be generated based on a value for each topic for the source user and a value for the same topic for each user in a set of users, where each user in the set of users is associated with a value for each topic. One or more similar users may be selected based on the generated similarity scores, and one or more of the selected users may be output.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08458195&OS=08458195&RS=08458195
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08458195
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120131
---
The following U.S. patent applications are filed concurrently herewith and are assigned to the same assignee hereof and contain subject matter related in certain respect to the subject matter of the present application. These patent applications are incorporated herein by reference.

Ser. No. 13 363 024 is now pending filed Jan. 31 2012 for SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR COMPUTATION OF DOCUMENT SIMILARITY 

Ser. No. 13 363 152 is now pending filed Jan. 31 2012 for SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CONTENT BASED DOCUMENT ORGANIZATION AND FILING 

Ser. No. 13 363 126 is now pending filed Jan. 31 2012 for SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DETERMINING ACTIVE TOPICS 

Ser. No. 13 363 094 is now pending filed Jan. 31 2012 for SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR AUTOMATICALLY DETERMINING DOCUMENT CONTENT 

Ser. No. 13 363 210 is now pending filed Jan. 31 2012 for SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DETERMINING TOPIC AUTHORITY 

Ser. No. 13 363 169 is now pending filed Jan. 31 2012 for SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DETERMINING TOPIC INTEREST and

Ser. No. 13 363 221 is now pending filed Jan. 31 2012 for SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DETERMINING SIMILAR TOPICS. 

Many different users may interact with information and data stored in databases. Users may for example interact with one or more documents including content related to one or more topics. It may desirable to determine and or identify similar users.

Briefly aspects of the present disclosure are directed to methods and systems for determining similar users which may include receiving information for a source user the information including at least one topic and a user value for each topic where the value represents how strongly the user is associated with that topic. Similarity scores may be generated based on a value for each topic for the source user and a value for the same topic for each user in a set of users where each user in the set of users is associated with a value for each topic. One or more similar users may be selected based on the generated similarity scores and one or more of the selected users may be output.

This SUMMARY is provided to briefly identify some aspects of the present disclosure that are further described below in the DESCRIPTION. This SUMMARY is not intended to identify key or essential features of the present disclosure nor is it intended to limit the scope of any claims.

The term aspects is to be read as at least one aspect . The aspects described above and other aspects of the present disclosure described herein are illustrated by way of example s and not limited in the accompanying figures.

The illustrative aspects are described more fully by the Figures and detailed description. The present disclosure may however be embodied in various forms and is not limited to specific aspects described in the Figures and detailed description.

The following merely illustrates the principles of the disclosure. It will thus be appreciated that those skilled in the art will be able to devise various arrangements which although not explicitly described or shown herein embody the principles of the disclosure and are included within its spirit and scope.

Furthermore all examples and conditional language recited herein are principally intended expressly to be only for pedagogical purposes to aid the reader in understanding the principles of the disclosure and the concepts contributed by the inventor s to furthering the art and are to be construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited examples and conditions.

Moreover all statements herein reciting principles and aspects of the disclosure as well as specific examples thereof are intended to encompass both structural and functional equivalents thereof. Additionally it is intended that such equivalents include both currently known equivalents as well as equivalents developed in the future e.g. any elements developed that perform the same function regardless of structure.

Thus for example it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that any block diagrams herein represent conceptual views of illustrative circuitry embodying the principles of the disclosure. Similarly it will be appreciated that any flow charts flow diagrams state transition diagrams pseudocode and the like represent various processes which may be substantially represented in computer readable medium and so executed by a computer or processor whether or not such computer or processor is explicitly shown.

The functions of the various elements shown in the Figures including any functional blocks labeled as processors may be provided through the use of dedicated hardware as well as hardware capable of executing software in association with appropriate software. When provided by a processor the functions may be provided by a single dedicated processor by a single shared processor or by a plurality of individual processors some of which may be shared. Moreover explicit use of the term processor or controller should not be construed to refer exclusively to hardware capable of executing software and may implicitly include without limitation digital signal processor DSP hardware network processor application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA read only memory ROM for storing software random access memory RAM and non volatile storage. Other hardware conventional and or custom may also be included.

Software modules or simply modules which are implied to be software may be represented herein as any combination of flowchart elements or other elements indicating performance of process steps and or textual description. Such modules may be executed by hardware that is expressly or implicitly shown.

In there is shown a flow diagram which defines steps of a method according to aspects of the present disclosure. Methods and systems of the present disclosure may be implemented using for example a computer system as depicted in or any other system and or device.

In operation information for a source user may be received by for example system . Information for a user e.g. a user signature may include for example at least one topic and a user value e.g. a value for each topic.

Topics may be for example categories abstract ideas subjects things and or concepts representing content or subject matter of a file e.g. a audio file video file spreadsheet word processing file text file or another type of files . Topics may be for example an abstract notion of what a file e.g. a document pertains to is related to and or is about. A topic may in some aspects be a concept that at least a portion of the file e.g. document is about. A topic may or may not be a term present in a document text but may be for example associated with one or more terms present in a document and may be generated by natural language processing or other processes based on one or more terms in a document and or other information. For example a file e.g. a document may include information e.g. text about cars planes and boats all of which appear as terms verbatim in the file. More abstractly however it may be determined that the file is about vehicles and modes of transportation. Topics associated with the document may therefore be vehicles modes of transportation and or other topics.

A user value may for example represent how strongly a user is associated with a topic. A user may be associated with a topic by for example interacting with files documents web pages information and or data related to and or including that topic. A user may interact with a file document web page information and or data related to a topic by adding removing editing viewing and or otherwise interacting with information in a file including a topic e.g. an audio file video file spreadsheet word processing file text file or another type of files . A user may for example interact with a topic in a document by adding removing editing and or otherwise altering document content related to a topic. A user may also interact with a topic by viewing opening subscribing to tagging starring sharing and or otherwise interacting with a file or other data that includes text and or content related to a topic.

Files as discussed herein may include documents document text video files audio files computer code and or any other type of file. Document text may be for example a text based representation of a document. A document may include text e.g. a word processing document text file portable document format pdf spreadsheet or presentation or may have text associated therewith such as in a transcript when the document is a video e.g. a web based video digital video file or any other type of video an audio file e.g. an audio recording podcast or any type of audio and or another type of electronically stored file. A document may in some aspects be a web page computer instructions e.g. computer code in any language and or any other internet and or computer related file. In that case the document text file may be linked to and or stored with the document and or may be stored separately. It will be understood that operations involving the text of a document may be performed on or with the document or the document text file depending on the location of text.

In some aspects information for a source user e.g. including at least one topic and a user value for each topic may be received from an automatic process operating on data associated with the source user. An automatic process operating on data associated with a user may for example be a process method and or approach using natural language processing NLP user topic interest computation user topic authority computation and or other approaches to determine user association with one or more topics. An automatic process for determining user topic authority may for example be used to generate for a user one or more topics and a user authority value for each topic representing a level amount or strength of a user s expertise or authority in a topic. An automatic process for determining user topic interest may for example be used to generate for a user one or more topics and a user interest value for each topic representing a level amount or strength of a user s interest in a topic.

In some aspects a user value may include a user authority value. A user authority value may be a user authority signature value e.g. authority signature value as discussed in patent application Ser. No. 13 363 210 filed Jan. 31 2012 for SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DETERMINING TOPIC AUTHORITY which is incorporated herein by reference. A user authority value may for example represent a user s expertise related to a topic. A user authority value e.g. user authority signature value may for example be generated based on authorship information for a user for one or more files e.g. documents weights of topics in the one or more files and or other information. Authorship information of a user may include for each of one or more topic s in or associated with a file an authorship contribution and or creation percentage for that user. An authorship percentage may for example represent a portion amount or quantity of a topic authored generated and or created by an author. Authorship information may be determined based on a user s and or author s interaction with at least a portion of a document related to a topic e.g. text a user adds to edits a user makes in and or other types of user interaction with a document . A user authority value may be for example a sum of products of one or more authorship percentages for a document and a weight of a topic in that document.

In some aspects a user value may include a user interest value. A user interest value may be a user interest signature value e.g. an interest signature value as discussed in patent application Ser. No. 13 363 169 filed Jan. 31 2012 for SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR DETERMINING TOPIC INTEREST which is incorporated herein by reference. A user interest value may for example represent a degree amount magnitude and or strength of a user s interest in and or association with a topic. A user interest value may for example be a sum of products of one or more values representing user interest in a file e.g. a document and a weight of a topic in that file e.g. document . A value representing user interest in a file may for example represent a degree magnitude and or strength of a user s interest in a file e.g. a document . A value representing a user s interest in a file may for example be calculated based on document interaction characteristics document access characteristics document editing characteristics and or document sharing characteristics. A product of a value representing a user s interest in a file and a weight of a topic in that file may represent and or quantify a user s interest in that topic in that file. One or more products of values representing a user s interest in a file and a weight of a topic in that file for one or more files may be summed to generate an interest value of a topic for a user.

A user value may in some aspects represent a confidence of association of a topic to a user. A user value e.g. corresponding to a topic may represent a confidence certainty and or likelihood that a user is associated with a topic. For example a user value e.g. 0.70 may indicate a confidence of 70 that a user is related to a topic e.g. the first user is interested in the first topic has authority on the first topic or is otherwise associated with the topic .

In some aspects information for a source user may be received from a user. Information for a source user may include at least one topic and a user value for each topic for the source user. Information for a source user may be received from for example the source user or any other user. Information may be received from a user e.g. a source user or any other user by way of for example a component or device associated with system . For example a user may wish to identify or determine similar users e.g. among a set of users and the user may input information including at least one topic and user value for each topic. The topics e.g. at least one topic and user value for each topic may be used to select one or more users similar to that user.

In operation similarity scores between a source user and a set of users e.g. one or more users in a set of users may be generated. Similarity scores may be generated based on for example a user value for each topic e.g. a user interest value a user authority value for the source user and a user value for the same topic for each user in a set of users. Each user in a set of users may for example be associated with a user value for each topic. A user value e.g. a user interest value a user authority value may be for example a number percentage scalar and or other type of value. One or more user values for a user e.g. values for a user may for example be included in a vector array matrix table and or any other type of data structure.

In some aspects one or more user values for a user e.g. each user value for a topic for that user may be normalized scaled or interpolated to generate normalized user values for each topic. User values for each topic may be normalized such that all normalized user values for a user sum to 1.0 100 and or any other value. Normalized user values may be computed or generated by for example dividing each user value for a topic by a sum of all user values across all topics for a user e.g. over all topics for a user .

A similarity score between a source user and a first user may be for example equal to a sum of products of user values for the source user and user values for the first user. Each product in the sum of products may be a product of a user value for a topic for the source user and a user value for the same topic for the first user.

Similarity scores between a source user and one or more users in a set of users may be generated. A set of users may include for example one or more users associated with a group organization circle collection social network and or other set of users. A source user may in some aspects be included in or be a member of one or more sets of users. Each user in a set of users may be associated with a user value e.g. including at least one topic and a user value for each topic .

A user value e.g. a user authority value a user interest value for a source user may for example be compared to user values for each of one or more users in a set of users. Each comparison may be between two users e.g. a source user and a user in a set of users . In comparing user values a user value for a topic associated with a source user may be compared to a user value for the same topic for each user within a set of users. Similarity scores may be generated based on the comparison e.g. one similarity score may be computed for each pair wise user comparison between the source user and a user within the set of users . A process of generating similarity scores may be repeated for each topic associated with a source user.

In some aspects a similarity score may be generated by computing a sum of products of user values a cosine similarity of user values or using other mathematical approaches. A similarity score may be generated by computing a sum of products of user values for a source user and respective user values associated with a user within a set of users. For example a similarity score between a source user and a user within a set of users may be computed by multiplying a user value for a topic for the source user by a user value for the same topic for each user within the set of users. The process may be repeated for each user value for each user e.g. among the set of users .

In some aspects a particular user value for a topic for a user may be zero if the user has not interacted with e.g. viewed edited drafted and or otherwise interacted with any documents including that topic. A similarity score may be a sum of products of user value user value product terms e.g. a user value for a first user multiplied by a user value for the same topic for a second user . In an example where a user value for a topic for a first user is zero a similarity score product term between a user value for a topic for the first user of zero e.g. 0.0 and a user value for the same topic for a second user may be zero e.g. 0.0 indicating no similarity between the two users with respect to that topic. Similarly if all product terms e.g. user value user value product terms in a similarity are equal to zero then the similarity score may be equal to zero.

In some aspects similarity scores may be generated by computing or calculating a cosine similarity of user values for each topic associated with a source user. A cosine similarity value score or parameter may be a quantity representing how similar a vector representing user values associated with a first user is to a vector representing user values associated with a second user. A cosine similarity score may be for example a number between 0.0 and 1.0 a percentage any range of numbers and or value s . A cosine similarity Sim S U may be calculated using an equation such as 

A cosine similarity Sim S U may for example be calculated based on a vector representing user values S for a source user and a vector representing user values for a user in a set of users U. A cosine similarity score may be for example a normalized dot product of a vector representing user values for a source user S and a vector representing user values for a user included in a set of users U. A vector representing user values for a source user S may include user values for each topic associated with a source user. A vector representing user values for a user within a set of users U may include user values for each topic for that user. If a user e.g. a source user or a user in a set of users has not interacted with a topic a user value of zero may be assigned to that topic in a vector representing user values for that user.

A dot product or sum of products may be normalized by dividing the dot product by a product of a norm of a vector representing user values associated with a source user S and a norm of a vector representing user values associated with a user in a set of users U . A vector norm may for example be a length and or magnitude of a vector e.g. Euclidian distance of a vector . Normalizing the dot product may for example ensure that each similarity score e.g. cosine similarity score is between 0 and 1 or another range.

As shown in the following table a similarity score may be generated between a source user and user Y e.g. a user in a set of users . A similarity score e.g. a cosine similarity of user values between a source user and user Y may be generating based on a vector representing user values associated with a source user e.g. 0.2 0.5 0.3 0 0 and a vector representing user values associated with user Y e.g. 0 0.6 0.3 0.1 0 . In this example user values for each topic for each user may be normalized user values. In some aspects either user values normalized user values and or otherwise transformed user values may be used to generate similarity scores.

A similarity score between a source user and user Y may be for example a cosine similarity of user values for each topic which may be equal to 0.93. Similarity scores may also be generated between the source user and other users in a set of users using a similar approach.

In operation similar users e.g. one or more similar users may be selected and output. One or more similar users may be selected based on generated similarity scores e.g. similarity scores between a source user and each of one or more users in a set of users . Users may for example be ranked grouped and or categorized based on similarity scores and one or more users may be selected based on the ranking grouping and or categorization.

In some aspects one or more users associated with one or more highest generated similarity scores may be selected. For example a highest ranked user in a set of users or a user associated with a highest similarity score may be selected. In some aspects any number of highest ranked users e.g. a top N scoring and or ranking users or a list of the top N scoring and or ranking users may be selected. A number of users to be selected e.g. a top N users may be determined by for example a user a system or device in system and or any other system or device.

According to some aspects selecting one or more similar users may include comparing a similarity score for each user in a set of users e.g. a similarity score between a source user and each user in a set of users to a threshold similarity score and selecting one or more similar users based on the comparison. A threshold similarity score may be for example a predetermined threshold similarity score e.g. a fixed threshold similarity score a static threshold similarity score a manual threshold similarity score a varying threshold similarity score or any other type of threshold similarity score. A predetermined threshold similarity score may be any similarity score generated by for example a user system or another system and or process. By way of example one or more users associated with similarity scores above a threshold similarity score may be selected and or may be deemed similar users. One or more similar users and or selected users may be output to for example a user a component of system and or any other system or device.

In some aspects one or more users associated with similarity scores above an automatically determined threshold similarity score e.g. a varying threshold similarity score may be deemed similar users and may be selected. An automatically determined threshold similarity score may for example be computed based on one or more similarity scores each similarity score between a source user and a user e.g. in a set of users . An automatically determined threshold similarity score may for example be generated based on a distribution of similarity scores and may change as similarity score data is added removed and or altered within the similarity score distribution.

In some aspects an automatically determined threshold similarity score may be generated using for example an automatic threshold detection process or other approaches. In an automatic threshold detection process a threshold may be determined based on a set of similarity score data e.g. a distribution of similarity score data . An automatic threshold detection process may for example be a K means difference in means hierarchical agglomerative clustering e.g. bottom up clustering or similar approach in which similarity score data is divided into groups and or clusters based on computed mean similarity score values for each group and or cluster e.g. average values median values etc. . An automatically determined threshold similarity score may in some aspects be a boundary between groups of similarity score data and may be determined to group similarity score data into one or more groups each group including similarity score values within a minimized range of the other values in the group or an average of all values in the group. An automatically determined threshold similarity score may therefore be related to the similarity score data set and may vary as similarity score data is added removed and or altered. Each of one or more users may be categorized into a group of users based on whether a similarity score associated with that user is above or below the one or more automatically determined threshold similarity scores.

By way of example a set of similarity score data may include values of 0.0 0.1 0.6 0.8 0.85 and or possibly other values. Based on the similarity score data an automatically determined threshold may be generated to divide the data into for example two groups and or clusters. An automatically determined threshold e.g. computed by system that divides the similarity score data into two groups may be for example 0.4. Similarity score values above 0.4 e.g. 0.6 0.8 and 0.85 may for example be assigned to one group and similarity score values below 0.4 e.g. 0.0 and 0.1 may be assigned to a second group. An automatically determined threshold of 0.4 may for example divide the values into two groups and the values in each group may be within a minimized distance of an average value of the group. For example an average of the first group values may be 0.75 e.g. 0.6 0.8 0.85 3 and each value in the first group may be within 0.15 of the average value e.g. 0.75 . Similarly each value in the second group may be within 0.05 of the group average value e.g. 0.05 0.0 0.1 2 .

In some aspects if a new user joins is placed in and or is added to a set of users a similarity score between the new user and a source user may be generated. As a result of the new similarity score a data distribution of similarity scores associated with the source user e.g. between the source user and each of one or more users in a set of users may change. An automatically determined threshold similarity score that is determined based on similarity scores between a source user and each of one or more users in a set of users may therefore also vary as a result of changes to user s in a set of users. Similarly an automatically determined threshold similarity score may be altered if users are removed from a set of users user s values associated with one or more users in a set of users change or based on other events or changes.

According to some aspects similar users may include a cluster or group of users associated with best high or most favorable similarity scores. For example a subset of users may be a predetermined number of users with best or most favorable similarity scores. Best or most favorable similarity scores may be for example similarity scores indicating a highest similarity between a source user and a user e.g. within a set of users .

In some aspects a number of similar users may be limited to a maximum predetermined number of users. A maximum predetermined number of users may be set by a user e.g. in a settings dialog panel screen menu and or other interface may be automatically determined or may be set by another system or device.

In some aspects a source user may be a user in a set of users. Information may be received for the user e.g. including at least one topic and a user value for each topic similarity scores may be generated based on a value for each topic for the source user and a value for the same topic for each user in a set of users and one or more similar users may be selected based on the generated similarity scores and one or more similar users and or selected users may be output. The steps e.g. receiving information generating similarity scores selecting one or more similar users and outputting one or more selected users may be repeated for each user in a set of users.

In some aspects each user in a set of users may be assigned to one or more groups of users based on generated similarity scores e.g. between a source user and the each user in a set of users . One or more groups of users may for example be output to a user system and or another device or system. Users may be categorized into groups e.g. classes categories buckets and or bins of users using for example an automatic grouping clustering or other approach. An automatic grouping clustering or other similar approach may be for example a K means difference in means or other method or approach. In an automatic grouping approach one or more varying threshold similarity scores may be generated for example using automatic threshold detection or another approach. A varying similarity score threshold may for example be calculated based on one or more user similarity scores e.g. a user similarity score distribution . A varying threshold similarity score may therefore be related to the similarity score data distribution and may vary as similarity score data is added removed and or altered. Each of one or more users may be categorized into a group of users based on whether a similarity score associated with that user is above or below the one or more threshold similarity scores.

By way of example one or more users may be categorized classified and or grouped into three or any other number of groups based on similarity scores. One or more users associated with similarity score values above a first threshold similarity score e.g. a predetermined threshold similarity score or automatically determined threshold similarity score may for example be categorized into a first group. Similarly one or more users associated with similarity scores below the first threshold similarity score and above a second threshold similarity e.g. a predetermined threshold similarity score or automatically determined threshold similarity score score may be categorized into a second group. One or more users associated with similarity scores below the second threshold similarity score may be categorized into a third group of users. Any number of threshold similarity scores may be used to group users into any number of categories groups or sets of users.

In some aspects a title for a group of users may be generated based on topics present in the information for one or more users in the group of users. For example a group of user may include three users e.g. user X user Y and user Z or any other number of users. Information for user X may include three topics e.g. topic A airplanes topic B bicycles and topic C cars and a user value for each topic e.g. topic A user value topic B user value topic C user value . Information for user Y may include three topics e.g. topic B bicycles topic C cars and topic D driving and a user value for each topic e.g. topic B user value topic C user value topic D user value . Information for user Z may include three topics e.g. topic B bicycles topic D driving and topic E exercise and a user value for each topic e.g. topic B user value topic D user value topic E user value . Based on the information for each user e.g. users X Y and Z it may be determined that a title for the group of users should be topic B bicycles or a title related to topic B bicycles. Topic B bicycles may be the title for the group of users because the information for user X user Y and user Z include topic B bicycles. A title for the group of users may also be generated based on multiple topics in the information for user X user Y and or user Z. A title for a group of users may for example be generated based on information e.g. one or more topics and a user value for each topic for one or more users in the group of users using a natural language processing NLP or a similar method or process.

In some aspects the receiving generating selecting and outputting steps may be initiated in response to a user selecting a source user. Operation operation and operation may be performed in response to input from a user e.g. a user selecting a source user a trigger event or in response to any other input. In response to a user selecting a source user a trigger event or any other action information for a source user may be received similarity scores between the source user and one or more users in a set of users may be generated one or more similar users may be selected based on the generated similarity scores and one or more similar users may be output. A trigger event may be for example an addition of a user to a set of users e.g. addition of a source user creation of a new user e.g. addition of information for a new user creation of a new set of users e.g. a group of users editing information for a user in a set of users removal of a user from set of users a change of information for a user in a set of users or any other event or action which may result in a change to a set of users or other information. A trigger event may for example occur at any time and may be the result of user input other processes or systems or other factors.

In some aspects an identity of one or more similar users to a source user may be output in response to input from a user. A user providing input may be for example a source user or any other user. A user may for example enter an identity of a source user input information for a source user e.g. including at least one topic and a user value for each topic and or otherwise enter information related to a source user. Based on the information input from the user similarity scores may be generated between the source user and one or more users one or more similar users may be selected based on the similarity scores and one or more similar users may be output. One or more similar users may be output to a user e.g. using a component of system to system and or to another system or device.

According to some aspects a representation of one or more similar users may be output. A representation of similar users may be for example a graphical representation of similar users e.g. a graphical model graph plot table bar graph pie chart or other graphical representation of similar users a list of similar users e.g. a list or table of similar users in a preview pane window or other displays and or any other type of data representation.

In some aspects an identity of one or more overlapping topics and a value indicating a degree of overlap e.g. topic overlap value for each overlapping topic may be output. Overlapping topics e.g. common topics shared topics may be for example topics associated with two or more users e.g. both a first user second user and possibly other users . For example information for user X may include three topics topic A e.g. airplanes topic B e.g. bicycles and topic C e.g. cars and a user value for each topic topic A user value e.g. 0.2 topic B user value e.g. 0.5 and topic C user value e.g. 0.3 . Information for user Y may include three topics topic B e.g. bicycles topic C e.g. cars and topic D e.g. driving and a user value for each topic B user value e.g. 0.6 topic C user value topic D user value . In this example overlapping topics for the first user e.g. user X and the second user e.g. user Y may include topic B bicycles and topic C cars. A degree of overlap for each overlapping topic may be computed based on a similarity score between the first user and the second user for each topic. For example a value representing a degree of overlap for topic B between the first user e.g. user X and the second user e.g. user Y may be equal to a product of a user value for topic B for user X e.g. 0.5 and user value for topic B for user Y e.g. 0.6 which may equal to 0.3. Similarly a value representing a degree of overlap for topic C between the first user e.g. user X and the second user e.g. user Y may be equal to 0.09. The one or more overlapping topics e.g. topic B and topic C and a value indicating a degree overlap e.g. topic B overlap value 0.3 and topic C overlap value 0.09 for each overlapping topic may be output.

In some aspects one or more overlapping topics associated with one or more highest degrees of overlap may be output. For example overlapping topics may be ranked in order of degree of overlap e.g. in descending or ascending order of degree of overlap and a highest ranked topic may be selected and output. In some aspects any number of highest ranked topics e.g. a list of top N scoring topics may be output. A number of overlapping topics to be selected and output may be determined by for example a user a system or device in system and or any other system or device.

In some aspects one or more overlapping topics associated with degrees of overlap above a threshold degree of overlap may be output. A threshold degree of overlap may be for example a predefined threshold degree of overlap e.g. a fixed degree of overlap an automatically determined threshold degree of overlap or other type of threshold. A predetermined degree of overlap may be determined by for example a user a system or device associated with system and or any other system or device. An automatically determined threshold similarity score may be generated for example using an automatic threshold detection process or other approaches. An automatically determined threshold degree of overlap may be used in a clustering method e.g. K means clustering hierarchical agglomerative clustering or another clustering algorithm to group or cluster sets of topics based on degree of overlap. One or more topics in a group or cluster of topics may be output.

In this example information and or a user signature for user X may include at least one topic e.g. three topics a user value for each topic and or other information. In some aspects user values for each topic may be normalized to generated normalized user values for each topic . A user signature for user X may include three topics topic A topic B and topic C and a user value for each topic topic A user value e.g. 0.4 topic B user value e.g. 1.0 and topic C user value e.g. 0.6 . Each user value for a topic may represent for example how strongly user X is associated with that topic.

In some aspects user values for each topic may be normalized such that all normalized user values for a user sum to 1.0 100 and or any other value. Normalized user values may be computed or generated by dividing each user value for a topic by a sum of all user values for each topic for a user. Normalized user values for user X may include for example topic A normalized value e.g. 0.2 topic B normalized value e.g. 0.5 and topic C normalized value e.g. 0.3 . Normalized user values for user X may be generated by dividing each user value e.g. topic A user value topic B user value and topic C user value by the sum of all user values e.g. 2.0 topic A user value topic B user value topic C user value .

In this example information and or a user signature for user Y may include at least one topic e.g. three topics a user value for each topic and or other information. In some aspects user values for each topic may be normalized to generate normalized user values for each topic . A user signature for user Y may include three topics topic B topic C and topic D and a user value for each topic topic B user value e.g. 1.2 topic C user value e.g. 0.6 and topic D user value e.g. 0.2 . Normalized user values for user Y may include for example topic B normalized value e.g. 0.6 topic C normalized value e.g. 0.3 and topic D normalized value e.g. 0.1 .

In this example information and or a user signature for user Z may include at least one topic e.g. three topics a user value for each topic and or other information. In some aspects user values for each topic may be normalized to generate normalized user values for each topic . A user signature for user Z may include three topics topic B topic D and topic E and a user value for each topic topic B user value e.g. 1.25 topic D user value e.g. 0.25 and topic E user value e.g. 1.0 . Normalized user values for user Z may include for example topic B normalized value e.g. 0.5 topic D normalized value e.g. 0.1 and topic E normalized value e.g. 0.4 .

By way of example similarity scores may be generated between a source user e.g. user X and one or more users e.g. user Y and user Z in a set of users. In this example a source user may be user X and the two users in a set of users may be user Y and user Z as discussed above in connection with . In this example user values for each topic for each user may be normalized user values e.g. user X normalized user values user Y normalized user values user Z normalized user values as discussed above in connection with . In some aspects either user values normalized user values and or otherwise transformed user values may be used. User values for each topic for a source user e.g. user X may be for example a vector of user values e.g. 0.2 0.5 0.3 0.0 0.0 where a user value for topic A is equal to 0.2 a user value for topic B is equal to 0.5 a user value for topic C is equal to 0.3 and user values topics D and E are equal to zero . User values for each topic for user Y may be for example be a vector of user values e.g. 0.0 0.6 0.3 0.1 0.0 . User values for each topic for user Z may be for example be a vector of user values e.g. 0.2 0.05 0.3 0.0 0.0 .

A similarity score e.g. a cosine similarity of user values between a source user and user Y may be generated by computing and or calculating a dot product of a vector representing user values for a source user e.g. 0.2 0.5 0.3 0.0 0.0 and a vector representing user values for user Y e.g. 0.0 0.6 0.3 0.1 0.0 and dividing the dot product by the product of the norm of the vector representing user values for a source user e.g. 0.2 0.5 0.3 0.0 0.0 and the norm of the vector representing user values for a user Y e.g. 0.0 0.6 0.3 0.1 0.0 . A cosine similarity of user values between a source user and user Y may in this example be equal to 0.93 or another value.

A cosine similarity of user values may be computed by calculating a dot product of a vector representing user values for a source user e.g. 0.2 0.5 0.3 0.0 0.0 and a vector representing user values for user Z e.g. 0.0 0.05 0.0 0.1 0.4 and dividing the dot product by the product of the norm of the vector representing user values for the source user e.g. 0.2 0.5 0.3 0.0 0.0 and the norm of the vector representing user values for user Z e.g. 0 0.5 0.0 0.1 0.4 . A cosine similarity of user values between a source user and user Z may in this example be equal to 0.63 or another value.

One or more similar users may be selected based on generated similarity scores e.g. cosine similarity scores . In some aspects one or more users associated with one or more highest similarity scores may be selected. In this example a similarity score between a source user and user Y e.g. 0.93 may be higher than a similarity score between the source user and user Z e.g. 0.63 . A ranked list of users based on similarity scores may include for example user Y ranked above user Z. In one example it may be specified that a highest ranked user should be selected and output and user Y may for example be selected and output e.g. to a user system or another system or device . In some aspects any number of users e.g. a top N users from a list and or a subset including a top N users from a list may be output e.g. to a user system or another system or device . The column labeled TOP N may indicate whether a similarity score for user e.g. user Y or user Z is among the top N e.g. in this example a top one and or highest similarity scores.

One or more similar users may be selected based on a threshold similarity score. A threshold similarity score may be for example a predetermined or fixed threshold similarity score an automatically determined threshold similarity score and or any other type of threshold similarity score.

In this example a predetermined threshold similarity score may be equal to 0.5 or any other value. A similarity score between a source user and user Y e.g. 0.93 may for example be higher than a predetermined threshold similarity score e.g. 0.5 . Similarly a similarity score between a source user and user Z e.g. 0.63 may for example be higher than a predetermined threshold similarity score e.g. 0.5 . In this example user Y and user Z may therefore be deemed similar users and the identity of user Y and user Z may be output e.g. for display to a user or to system . The column labeled FIXED E.G. 0.5 may indicate whether a similarity score for a user e.g. user Y or user Z is above a predefined threshold e.g. 0.5 .

By way of example an automatically determined threshold similarity score may be equal to 0.75 or any other value. A similarity score between a source user and user Y e.g. 0.93 may for example be higher than an automatically determined threshold similarity score e.g. 0.75 or any other threshold similarity score . User Y may therefore be deemed a similar user and the identity of user Y may be output e.g. for display to a user or to system . A similarity score e.g. a cosine similarity score between a source user and user Z e.g. 0.63 may for example be lower than a automatically determined threshold similarity score e.g. 0.75 or any other threshold similarity score . In this example user Z may be deemed a not similar user and the identity of user Z may not be output. The column labeled AUTO E.G. 0.75 may indicate whether a similarity score for user e.g. user X user Y or user Z is above an automatically determined threshold e.g. 0.75 .

In this example a value representing a degree of overlap for each overlapping topic between a source user e.g. user X and user Y may be generated. Information for a user and or a pair of users e.g. a source user and user Y may be the user information as discussed above in connection with and . Information for a source user may include for example three topics topic A topic B and topic C and a user value for each topic topic A user value e.g. 0.2 topic B user value e.g. 0.5 and topic C user value e.g. 0.3 . Information for user Y may include three topics e.g. topic B topic C and topic D and a user value for each topic topic B user value e.g. 0.6 topic C user value e.g. 0.3 topic D user value e.g. 0.1 . In this example overlapping topics between the source user e.g. user X and user Y may include topic B and topic C. A degree of overlap for each overlapping topic may be computed based on a similarity score between the source user and user Y for each topic and or a product of user values for a topic for the source user and user Y. For example a value representing a degree of overlap for topic B between the source user e.g. user X and user Y may be equal to a product of a user value for topic B for the source user e.g. 0.5 and user value for topic B for user Y e.g. 0.6 which may equal to 0.3. Similarly a value representing a degree of overlap for topic C between the source user and user Y may be equal to 0.09. A degree of overlap for topics A D and E may be zero e.g. 0 indicating that topics A D and E are not overlapping topics. The one or more overlapping topics e.g. topic B and topic C and a value indicating a degree of overlap e.g. topic B overlap value 0.3 and topic C overlap value 0.09 for each overlapping topic may be output.

In some aspects one or more overlapping topics associated with one or more highest degrees of overlap may be output. Overlapping topics may for example be ranked in order of degree of overlap e.g. in descending or ascending order of degree of overlap and a highest ranked one or more topics may be selected and output. In some aspects any number of highest ranked topics e.g. a list of top N scoring topics may be output. The column labeled TOP N may indicate whether a degree of overlap for a topic e.g. topic A topic B topic D or topic E is among the top N e.g. in this example a top one and or highest degree of overlap values. In this example a highest ranked overlapping topic between a source user and user Y may be topic B because topic B is associated with a highest degree of overlap equal to 0.3. An identity of topic B may therefore be output.

In some aspects one or more overlapping topics associated with degrees of overlap above a threshold degree of overlap may be output. A threshold degree of overlap may be for example a predefined or fixed threshold degree of overlap e.g. a fixed degree of overlap an automatically determined threshold degree of overlap or other type of threshold. A fixed threshold degree of overlap may be determined by for example a user a system or device associated with system and or any other system or device. An automatically determined threshold degree of overlap may be generated for example using an automatic threshold detection process or other approaches.

In this example a predetermined or fixed threshold degree of overlap may be equal to 0.25 or any other value. The column labeled FIXED E.G. 0.25 may indicate whether a degree of overlap for a topic e.g. topic A topic B topic D or topic E is above a predefined degree of overlap threshold e.g. 0.25 . A degree of overlap for topic B between a source user and user Y may be equal to 0.3 which is greater than the predetermined threshold degree of overlap of 0.25. The identity of topic B may therefore be output to for example a user system or any other system or device. A degree of overlap for topic C between a source user and user Y may be equal to 0.09 which is less than the predetermined threshold degree of overlap of 0.25. Topic C may therefore not be output.

In this example an automatically determined threshold degree of overlap may be equal to 0.05 or any other value. The column labeled AUTOMATIC E.G. 0.05 may indicate whether a degree of overlap for a topic e.g. topic A topic B topic D or topic E is above an automatically determined degree of overlap threshold e.g. 0.05 . A degree of overlap for topic B between a source user and user Y may be equal to 0.3 which is greater than the automatically determined threshold degree of overlap of 0.05. A degree of overlap for topic C between a source user and user Y may be equal to 0.09 which is greater than the predetermined threshold degree of overlap of 0.05. Topic B and topic C may therefore be output to for example a user system or any other system or device.

Computer system includes processor memory storage device and input output structure . One or more input output devices may include a display . One or more busses typically interconnect the components and . Processor may be a single or multi core.

Processor executes instructions in which aspects of the present disclosure may comprise steps described in one or more of the Figures. Such instructions may be stored in memory or storage device . Data and or information may be received and output using one or more input output devices.

Memory may store data and may be a computer readable medium such as volatile or non volatile memory or any transitory or non transitory storage medium. Storage device may provide storage for system including for example the previously described methods. In various aspects storage device may be a flash memory device a disk drive an optical disk device or a tape device employing magnetic optical or other recording technologies.

Input output structures may provide input output operations for system . Input output devices utilizing these structures may include for example keyboards displays pointing devices and microphones among others. As shown and may be readily appreciated by those skilled in the art computer system for use with the present disclosure may be implemented in a desktop computer package a laptop computer a hand held computer for example a tablet computer personal digital assistant mobile device or smartphone or one or more server computers that may advantageously comprise a cloud computer .

The systems and methods discussed herein and implemented using for example system may be used to compute information and data related to billions of individual documents associated with millions of individual users in real time. Individual users for example may each store edit modify and otherwise manipulate thousands of documents. In some aspects of the present disclosure generation calculation computation determination and other methods and system operations discussed herein may be completed in parallel simultaneously or in real time for millions of individual users worldwide and or globally.

At this point while we have discussed and described the disclosure using some specific examples those skilled in the art will recognize that our teachings are not so limited. Accordingly the disclosure should be only limited by the scope of the claims attached hereto.

