---

title: Method and system to automatically park a voice call for data transfer
abstract: A system and method to automatically park a voice call on a mobile electronic device so that the device can receive data, comprising a switch for establishing a voice call at the at least one caller device, a database for storing at least one call processing rule, and an enterprise data server for receiving a data message, comparing contents of the data message with at least one rule in the database, and in the event that the contents match the rule then parking the call, switching the mobile electronic device to a data mode of operation, downloading the data message to the device and un-parking the call.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08594639&OS=08594639&RS=08594639
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 08594639
owner_city: Waterloo
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20121205
---
The present disclosure relates generally to mobile electronic devices and more particularly to a method to automatically park a voice call on a mobile electronic device so that the device can receive data.

Second generation 2G cellular telecom networks have been in commercial use since 1991 and include GSM Global System for Mobile Communications for voice with which Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE Enhanced GPRS EGPRS may be used EDGE EGPRS is a backward compatible digital mobile phone technology that allows improved data transmission rates as an extension on top of standard GSM on 2G networks. Although 2G networks allow for both digitally encrypted voice conversations and data services they do not permit simultaneous voice and data communications. Thus all data traffic to 2G mobile electronic devices is blocked whenever a user is engaged in a voice call. If the user is on a call for an extended period of time there may be circumstances in which critical data is prevented from reaching the device. For example a user may be on an extended call while supervisors or family members are urgently trying to contact him her via email. Or if a user s mobile device has been lost or stolen and an authorized voice call is made from the device any attempts to remotely disable the device e.g. an IT kill command will fail while the voice call is in progress. The same shortcomings apply to CDMA Code Division Multiple Access cellular telecom networks.

Third generation 3G cellular telecom networks including UMTS permit simultaneous voice and data traffic but require a much longer time second s to establish a call which introduces latency in the receipt of data. Also since the radio must be on for several seconds before any data is exchanged 3G devices exhibit heavier battery use. In addition UMTS connections use more power while in an idle state than 2G devices. For at least these reasons 2G devices continue to remain popular.

Accordingly it is desirable to provide integration of voice and data services over networks that do not support simultaneous voice data communication such as CDMA and 2G cellular telecom networks. It is also desirable to provide a mechanism for faster downloading of important data to 3G devices that are in use for voice calling.

According to an aspect of this specification there is provided a method to automatically park a voice call on a mobile electronic device so that the device can receive data comprising comparing contents of said data with at least one rule and in the event that the contents match said at least one rule then parking the call switching the mobile electronic device to a data mode of operation downloading the data to the device and un parking the call.

According to another aspect there is provided a system comprising at least one mobile electronic device having a voice mode and a data mode of operation a switch for establishing a voice call at the at least one mobile electronic device a database for storing at least one call processing rule an enterprise data server receiving data intended for the mobile electronic device accessing the database and comparing contents of the data with the at least one rule and in the event that the contents match the at least one rule then notifying the switch to park the call switching the device to a data mode of operation aid downloading the data to the device while the switch has parked the call and notifying the switch to un park the call.

Other aspects of the present application will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the following detailed description in conjunction with the drawings.

Embodiments of the present application are not limited to any particular operating system mobile device architecture server architecture or computer programming language.

The present application relates to the control and management of communications. Although reference may be made to calls in the description of example embodiments below it will be appreciated that the described systems and methods are applicable to session based communications in general and not limited to voice calls. It will also be appreciated that the systems and methods may not be limited to sessions and may be applicable to messaging based communications in some embodiments.

Reference is now made to which shows in block diagram form an example system generally designated for the control and management of communications. The system includes an enterprise or business system which in many embodiments includes a local area network LAN . In the description below the enterprise or business system may be referred to as an enterprise network . It will be appreciated that the enterprise network may include more than one network and may be located in multiple geographic areas in some embodiments.

The enterprise network may be connected often through a firewall to a wide area network WAN such as the Internet. The enterprise network may also be connected to a public switched telephone network PSTN via direct inward dialing DID trunks or primary rate interface PRI trunks.

The enterprise network may also communicate with a public land mobile network PLMN which may also be referred to as a wireless wide area network WWAN or in some eases a cellular network. The connection with the PLMN may be made via a relay as known in the art.

The enterprise network may also provide a wireless local area network WLAN featuring wireless access points. Other WLANs may exist outside the enterprise network . For example WLAN may be connected to WAN .

The system may include a number of enterprise associated mobile devices only one shown . The mobile devices may include devices equipped for cellular communication through the PLMN mobile devices equipped for Wi Fi communications over one of the WLANs or dual mode devices capable of both cellular and WLAN communications WLANs may be configured in accordance with one of the IEEE 802.11 specifications.

It will be understood that the mobile devices include one or more radio transceivers and associated processing hardware and software to enable wireless communications with the PLMN and or one of the WLANs . In various embodiments the PLMN and mobile devices may be configured to operate in compliance with any one or more of a number of wireless protocols including GSM GPRS CDMA EDGE UMTS EvDO HSPA 3GPP or a variety of others. It will be appreciated that the mobile device may roam within the PLMN and across PLMNs in known manner as the user moves in some instances the dual mode mobile devices and or the enterprise network are configured to facilitate roaming between the PLMN and a WLAN and are thus capable of seamlessly transferring sessions such as voice calls from a connection with the cellular interface of the dual mode device to the WLAN interface of the dual mode device and vice versa.

The enterprise network typically includes a number of networked servers computers and other devices. For example the enterprise network may connect one or more desktop or laptop computers one shown . The connection may be wired or wireless in some embodiments. The enterprise network may also connect to one or more digital telephone sets one shown .

The enterprise network may include one or more mail servers such as mail server for coordinating the transmission storage and receipt of electronic messages for client devices operating within the enterprise network . Typical mail servers include the Microsoft Exchange Server and the IBM Lotus Domino server. Each user within the enterprise typically has at least one user account within the enterprise network . Associated with each user account is message address information such as an e mail address. Messages addressed to a user message address are stored on the enterprise network in the mail server . The messages may be retrieved by the user using a messaging application such as an e mail client application. The messaging application may be operating on a user s computer connected to the enterprise network within the enterprise. In some embodiments the user may be permitted to access stored messages using a remote computer for example at another location via the WAN using a VPN connection. Using the messaging application the user may also compose and send messages addressed to others within or outside the enterprise network . The messaging application causes the mail server to send a composed message to the addressee often via the WAN .

The relay serves to route messages received over the PLMN from the mobile device to the corresponding enterprise network . The relay also pushes messages from the enterprise network to the mobile device via the PLMN .

The enterprise network also includes an enterprise server . Together with the relay the enterprise server functions to redirect or relay incoming e mail messages addressed to a users e mail address within the enterprise network to the user s mobile device and to relay incoming e mail messages composed and sent via the mobile device out to the intended recipients within the WAN or elsewhere. The enterprise server and relay together facilitate push e mail service for the mobile device enabling the user to send and receive e mail messages using the mobile device as though the user were connected to an e mail client within the enterprise network using the user s enterprise related e mail address for example on computer .

As is typical in many enterprises the enterprise network includes a Private Branch eXchange although in various embodiments the PBX may be a standard PBX or an IP PBX for simplicity the description below uses the term PBX to refer to both having a connection with the PSTN for routing incoming and outgoing voice calls for the enterprise. The PBX is connected to the PSTN via DID trunks or PRI trunks for example. The PBX may use ISDN signaling protocols for setting up and tearing down circuit switched connections through the PSTN and related signaling and communications. In some embodiments the PBX may be connected to one or more conventional analog telephones . The PBX is also connected to the enterprise network and through it to telephone terminal devices such as digital telephone sets softphones operating on computers etc. Within the enterprise each individual may have an associated extension number sometimes referred to as a PNP private numbering plan or direct dial phone number. Calls outgoing from the PBX to the PSTN or incoming from the PSTN to the PBX are typically circuit switched calls. Within the enterprise e.g. between the PBX and terminal devices voice calls are often packet switched calls for example Voice over IP VoIP calls.

The enterprise network may further include a Service Management Platform SMP for performing some aspects of messaging or session control like call control and advanced call processing features. The SMP may in some cases also perform some media handling. Collectively the SMP and PBX may be referred to as the enterprise communications platform generally designated . It will be appreciated that the enterprise communications platform and in particular the SMP is implemented on one or more servers having suitable communications interfaces for connecting to and communicating with the PBX and or DID PRI trunks. Although the SMP may be implemented on a stand alone server it will be appreciated that it may be implemented into an existing control agent server as a logical software component. As will be described below the SMP may be implemented as a multi layer platform.

The enterprise communications platform implements the switching to connect session legs and may provide the conversion between for example a circuit switched call and a VoIP call or connect legs of other media sessions. In some embodiments in the context of voice calls me enterprise communications platform provides a number of additional functions including automated attendant interactive voice response call forwarding voice mail etc. It may also implement certain usage restrictions on enterprise users such as blocking international calls or 1 900 calls. In mans embodiments. Session Initiation Protocol SIP may be used to set up manage and terminate media sessions for voice calls. Other protocols may also be employed by the enterprise communications platform for example Web Services Computer Telephony integration CTI protocol Session initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence leveraging extensions SIMPLE and various custom Application Programming Interfaces APIs as will be described in greater detail below.

One of the functions of the enterprise communications platform is to extend the features of enterprise telephony to the mobile devices . For example the enterprise communications platform may allow the mobile device to perform functions akin to those normally available on a standard office telephone such as the digital telephone set or analog telephone set . Example features may include direct extension dialing enterprise voice mail conferencing call transfer call park etc.

Reference is now made to which show example embodiments of the enterprise communications system . Again although references are made below to calls or call centric features it will be appreciated that the architectures and systems depicted and described are applicable to session based communications in general and in some instances to messaging based communications.

In this embodiment the SMP assumes control over both call processing and the media itself. This architecture may be referred to as First Party Call Control . Many of the media handling functions normally implemented by the PBX are handled by the SMP in this architecture. Incoming calls addressed to any extension or direct dial number within the enterprise for example are always first routed to the SMP . Thereafter a call leg is established from the SMP to the called party within the enterprise and the two legs are bridged. Accordingly the SMP includes a digital trunk interface and a digital signal processing DSP conferencing bridge . The DSP conferencing bridge performs the bridging of calls for implementation of various call features such as conferencing call transfer etc. The digital trunk interface may be implemented as a plurality of telephonic cards e.g. Intel Dialogic cards interconnected by a bus and operating under the control of a processor. The digital trunk interface may also be partly implemented using a processor module such as for example a Host Media Processing PIMP processor.

The SMP may include various scripts for managing call processing. The scripts are implemented as software modules routines functions etc. stored in non volatile memory and executed by the processor of the SMP . The scripts may implement call flow logic business logic user preferences call service processes and various feature applications.

The call control server is coupled to the PBX for example through the LAN enabling packet based communications and more specifically IP based communications. In one embodiment communications between the PBX and the call control server are carried out in accordance with SIP. In other words the call control server uses SIP based communications to manage the set up tear down and control of media handled by the PBX . In one example embodiment the call control server may employ a communications protocol conforming to the ECMA 269 or ECMA 323 standards for Computer Supported Telecommunications Applications CSTA .

The SIP server interacts with the media server using SIP based media handling commands. For example the SIP server and media server may communicate using Media Server Markup Language MSML as defined in IETF document Saleem A. Media Server Markup Language Internet Draft draft saleem msml 07 Aug. 7 2008. The media server may be configured to perform Host Media Processing PIMP .

Other architectures or configurations for the enterprise communications system will be appreciated by those ordinarily skilled in the art.

Reference is now made to which shows another embodiment of the enterprise communications system with a Third Party Call Control architecture. In this embodiment the SMP is a multi layer platform that includes a protocol layer a services layer and an application layer . The protocol layer includes a plurality of interface protocols configured for enabling operation of corresponding applications in the application layer . The services layer includes a plurality of services that can be leveraged by the interface protocols to create richer applications. Finally the application layer includes a plurality of applications that are exposed out to the communication devices and that leverage corresponding ones of the services and interface protocols for enabling the applications.

Specifically the protocol layer preferably includes protocols which allow media to be controlled separate from data. For example the protocol layer can include among other things a Session Initiation Protocol or SIP a Web Services protocol an Application Programming Interface or API a Computer Telephony Integration protocol or CTI and a Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions or SIMPLE protocol . It is contemplated that the interface protocols are plug ins that can interface directly with corresponding servers in the enterprise network which will be further described below.

For the purposes of this disclosure SIP will be utilized although it is appreciated that the system can operate using the above disclosed or additional protocols. As known by those of ordinary skill in the art SIP is the IETF Internet Engineering Task Force standard for multimedia session management and more specifically is an application layer control protocol for establishing maintaining modifying and terminating multimedia sessions between two or more endpoints. As further known by those of ordinary skill in the art the SIP protocol includes two interfaces for signaling SIP Trunk hereinafter referred to as SIP T and SIP Line hereinafter referred to as SIP L . Specifically the SIP T interface is utilized when the endpoint is a non specific entity or not registered i.e. when communicating between two network entities . In contrast the SIP L interface is utilized when the endpoint is registered the when dialing to a specific extension . The specific operation of the system utilizing SIP will be described in further detail below.

The SMP also includes a plurality of enablers among other things a VoIP enabler a Fixed Mobile Convergence or FMC enabler a conference services enabler a presence enabler and an Instant Messaging or IM enabler . Each of the enablers are used by corresponding services in the services layer that combine one or more of the enablers. Each of the applications in the application layer is then combined with one or more of the services to perform the desired application. For example a phone call service may use the VoIP or PBX enabler and an emergency response application may use the phone call service an Instant Messenger service a video call service and email service and or a conference service.

The application layer may include a conference services application that together with the conference services enabler enables multiple communication devices including desk telephones and personal computers to participate in a conference call through use of a centralized conference server . As seen in the conference server is provided in the enterprise network and is in communication with the conference services enabler preferably through the SIP protocol although it is recognized that additional protocols that control media separate from data may be appropriate such as the Web Services protocol or the CTI protocol . As will be described in further detail below the conference call server is configured for directing media and data streams to and from one or more communication devices i.e. mobile devices telephones and computers .

Turning now to the general operation of the system using SIP as the signaling protocol be discussed although it is recognized that the present system is not limited to the processes discussed herein. The signaling descriptions that follow are based on Third Party Call Control architecture such as that illustrated in or . It will be appreciated that similar but slightly modified signaling may be used in a First Parts Call Control architecture wherein the PBX will pass media through to the SMP for direct media handling by the SMP . Variations in the signaling to adapt to various architectures will be appreciated by those ordinarily skilled in the art.

The SMP then sets up the outgoing call leg to the destination. It does this by sending an invite over SIP L to the PBX with the destination number of the target phone block SIP L is used so that the call can be correctly attributed to the individual within the organization within any call records that are being maintained by the PBX . When the invite is received the PBX dials the destination number to the target phone block and the target phone answers the call block . When the target phone is answered the PBX sends a 200 OK signal to the SMP indicating that the target phone is ready to receive data block . The SMP then sends an invite over SIP T to the PBX and shuttles the SDP Session Description Protocol as known to those of ordinary skill in the art to connect the call legs block . When the call legs are connected the PBX sends a second 200 OK signal to the SMP block and the users of the device and target phone can communicate with each other.

Note that between the cellular call leg being established and the outgoing call leg being answered the mobile user hears ringing tones. These ringing tones may be provided by the PBX using the presentation of early media from the outgoing call leg or they may be generated locally on the device if early media is not available. In the latter ease it will be necessary to localize the ringing tone to match the tone normally heard with a call through the PBX .

The above description is known as a mobile initiated call because the SMP provides the mobile device with the DNIS number into which the mobile device has called. Alternatively the mobile originated call could be PBX initiated as shown in . Specifically in a PBX initiated call upon receipt of the mobile originated call request block the SMP confirms receipt of the call to the mobile device with an ANI number block which the mobile device uses to identify the incoming call from the PBX . The PBX then sends an invite over SIP T to the PBX with the cellular number of the device and the ANI number that is attached to the outgoing call block . Upon receipt of the invite the PBX makes a cellular call to the device block which is answered by the device block . The device checks the ANI number in the incoming call to confirm if the number is actually from the PBX . If the ANI number is stripped for any particular reason then the device may be configured to answer the call as a regular cellular call or it may reject the call as unknown. When the device answers the PBX initiated call the PBX sends a 200 OK signal to the SMP indicating that the call leg to the device is established block .

In response the SKIP sends an invite over SIP L with the destination number of the target phone to the PBX block . When the invite is received at the PBX the PBX dials the destination number to the target phone block the target phone picks up the call block and a 200 OK signal is sent from the PBX to the SMP block indicating that the target phone is also ready to receive data. In response to the 200 OK the SMP sends an invite to the PBX shuffling the SDP to connect the call legs block . Finally when the call legs are connected the PBX sends a second 200 OK signal to the SMP block and the users of the device and target phone are able to communicate with each other.

In both instances the SMP is performing third party call control of the two call legs the PBX remaining in control of the call. The decision of whether to proceed with a mobile initiated call or a PBX initiated call can be set by policy. Specifically the option to select either mobile initiated or PBX initiated calls is a feature provided in the SMP and an administrator for the enterprise network can determine which setting to use. For example in some cases it may be more cost effective for the corporation to utilize PBX initiated calls rather than mobile initiated calls and vice versa. However it is appreciated that the system is not limited to the above processes.

In response to the invite the SMP sends a call request with the DNIS number and source details to the device block which is confirmed to the SMP block . In addition to confirming the call the mobile device sends a cellular call to the DNIS number at the PBX block . Again as the DNIS number is routed in the dialing plans to the SMP upon receipt of the cellular call the PBX sends an invite over SIP T to the SMP with the DNIS number block . In response to the invite a 200 OK signal is sent over SIP T from the SMP to the PBX acknowledging that the call leg to the mobile device is established block . Finally the initial invite block is acknowledged with the 200 OK signal with the cellular SDP at which point the call legs are joined and the target phone and device can communicate with each other on the call.

The diagram shown in illustrates a mobile initiated call because as discussed above with respect to the SMP presents the mobile device with the DNIS number at the PBX into which to call. However it is also possible to employ a PBX initiated mobile terminated call as shown in where the PBX sends an incoming call to tire device with the ANI number of the target phone .

Specifically similar to the mobile initiated call described above and shown in the target phone sends an incoming call to the destination number of the device which is received at the PBX block . Upon receipt of the call the PBX sends an invite over SIP L to the SMP block with the source number of the target phone . In response to the invite the SMP sends a call request with the source number to the device block with the ANI number the device should expect in the incoming call the call request being confirmed by the device block . At this point in the PBX initiated call the SMP sends an invite over SIP T to the PBX with the cellular number and ANI number to use block prompting the PBX to make a cellular call to the device with the ANI number block prompting the device to ring. The device answers the call block and a 200 OK signal is sent from the PBX to the SMP acknowledging that the cellular call leg to the device is established block . In response a 200 OK signal is also sent from the SMP to the PBX acknowledging that the call leg to the target phone is also established block . The SMP shuffles the SDP to connect the call legs the call legs are joined and the target phone and device can communicate with each other on the call.

As discussed above with respect to the SMP remains in control of the signaling between the target phone and the mobile device in both the mobile initiated and PBX initiated calls. Again the decision to proceed with a mobile initiated call or a PBX initiated call is based on policy and may be set by a system administrator. In some cases it may be more efficient or cost effective for the administrator to decide that PBX initiated calls should be used and in other cases it may be more efficient or cost effective for mobile initiated calls to be utilized. As these policy decisions may vary by organization and are not imperative to the scope of the present application they will not be discussed in further detail.

Turning to the general operation of the system using SIP as the signaling protocol will be discussed for parking a voice call on the mobile device so that the device cm receive data from the enterprise server . A request message is sent from mobile device or target phone block in response to which two call legs are established and connected block in order to establish an end to end bearer communications path two way RTF stream between mobile device and the called party at target phone block as discussed above with reference to .

Upon receipt within the enterprise data server of data intended to be sent to the device block the server compares the content of the data with a list of user and global rules stored in a database of server block . It should be noted that the data may represent an email communication SMS communication calendar item browser push data custom software or other data item without limitation. The rules used to determine the importance of an email message can include but are not limited to filters based on an importance tag in the header of an email filters based on email addresses filters based on Internet Protocol IP addresses filters based on whitelists ranking techniques based on the frequency that email recipients have replied to the user and ranking techniques based on the frequency that email recipients have clicked on links within email messages sent by the user. In one embodiment the rules are updated each time the user checks for new email messages. In another embodiment the rules are updated periodically regardless of the frequency at which the user checks for emails.

In the event that the data is deemed to be important as established by the predetermined user and global rules i.e. a Yes at block then server notifies the PBX to park the call in progress block so that the device can switch to data mode block and download the data block for example via one of a mail application or text application of device or other application such as a browser or calendar application . According to one embodiment the PBX also provides a notification to the caller prior to parking the call that the call is about to be parked for important data downloading. If the data is not important i.e. a No at block then the data is queued within server for downloading to device after completion of the call block at which time the device returns to data mode in the usual manner. Enterprise data server notifies the PBX once the data download is complete to un park the call block .

The rules within the database of server may be customized by the user e.g. if data is tagged as important then park call if data is from family then park call etc. or by a network administrator e.g. if data is from CEO then park call if data is from emergency health safety department then park call etc. and can be implemented using CPL call processing language scripts or any other suitable mechanism for implementing call processing preferences.

The call park operation at block is a well known telephony feature that allows a call to be put on soft hold and then retrieved later to continue the call. In traditional legacy PBX systems the parked call is transferred to an unused extension the call is said to have parked onto a certain extension by temporarily assigning the extension number to the call. However as discussed in greater detail below when implemented using signaling protocols such as Session Initiation Protocol SIP call park is implemented using two call legs as discussed above.

Turning to a message flow diagram is provided depicting the flow of messages for implementing the call park operation at block and the un park operation at block of . As indicated above server notifies the PBX to park the call in progress. Upon receipt of notification from the server a SIP REFER message is sent from a user agent within SMP for the caller at device block which is accepted by a park server agent within PBX block . The park server immediately reports to the caller at device that it is attempting to call block which is acknowledged by the caller block . The park server then sends an INVITE message to a called party agent within SMP representing the target phone block to replace the session between the caller at device and called party at target phone . The INVITE message is accepted and acknowledged blocks and in the usual manner and an RTP stream is established between the park server and the called party at target phone block . The two call legs between device and target phone are then disconnected blocks and thereby parking the call.

Once the RTP stream has been established between the park server and called party one or both of the caller and called party may be notified of the successful park blocks and and optionally the anticipated length of the hold with periodic updates while continuing to hold. For example if the server is sending a 100 MB file that has been marked as urgent then the server can transmit a voice clip to the PBX to notify the party on hold as to approximately how long it will take to download the data. In addition the server can send periodic updates to the user on hold for indicating download progress such as download 50 completed etc. In one embodiment the RTF stream from the park server includes an automated voice announcement indicating that the call has been placed on hold pending delivery of important data followed by music. In another embodiment the caller at device can be prompted before the data is downloaded so that the call can be quickly un parked in the event the call is very important e.g. the called party is a CEO etc. .

While the call is parked the device reverts to data in mode block and the data e.g. email text message calendar item browser push data etc. is downloaded block in the usual manner by operation of a mail application or text application.

Then in order to un park the call block once data downloading has been completed the caller user agent issues an INVITE to the called party block for replacing the session between the called party and park server which is accepted and acknowledged in the usual way blocks and . Once the RTP streams have been re established between the caller and called party block the called party sends a BYE message to the park server block which is acknowledged in the usual way block .

The above embodiments may realize one or more potential advantages. For example hospitals will permit only a very limited time e.g. 20 25 minutes for potential organ transplant recipients to respond when a transplant organ becomes available. Parking a call in progress for delivery of an urgent text or mail message from the hospital could possibly save a life.

The above embodiments are for illustration and although one or more particular embodiments of the device and method have been described herein changes and modifications may be made thereto. For example although the embodiments discussed above have been discussed in terms of parking a call placed by a calling party rather than remote receiving or called party the principles set forth herein apply equally to parking a call at the called party for downloading urgent data. Also although the embodiments discussed above have been discussed in terms of downloading important data to 2G devices the principles set forth herein apply equally to parking a call at a 3G device for downloading urgent data at a fester rate than is possible when the device is involved in a voice call. All such changes and modifications are believed to be encompassed by the present disclosure in its broadest aspects and as set forth in the following claims.

