---

title: Orientation-assisted object recognition
abstract: A user attempting to obtain information about an object can capture image information including a view of that object, and the image information can be used with a matching or identification process to provide information about that type of object to the user. Information about the orientation of the camera and/or device used to capture the image can be provided in order to limit an initial search space for the matching or identification process. In some embodiments, images can be selected for matching based at least in part upon having a view matching the orientation of the camera or device. In other embodiments, images of objects corresponding to the orientation can be selected. Such a process can increase the average speed and efficiency in locating matching images. If a match cannot be found in the initial space, images of other views and categories can be analyzed as well.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08988556&OS=08988556&RS=08988556
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08988556
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120615
---
Users are increasingly utilizing electronic devices to obtain various types of information. For example a user wanting to obtain information about a book can capture an image of the cover of the book and upload that image to a book identification service for analysis. In many cases the cover image will be matched against a set of two dimensional images including views of objects from a particular orientation. While books are relatively easy to match as a user will generally capture an image of the cover of the book with the cover relatively centered and upright in the image other objects are not as straightforward. For example an object such as a pair of boots might be imaged from several different orientations with many of those orientations not matching the orientation of a stored image for that type or style of boot. For example a top view of a pair of boots will look substantially different than a side view of the pair of boots which can cause problems if an image of the pair of boots used for image matching only represents one view. In some cases a matching algorithm might utilize multiple views of various products to assist with the matching but providing additional views rapidly expands the number of images that must be searched which increases the amount of latency in receiving results requires more processing power and storage and can potentially result in more false positives through matching with these additional images.

Systems and methods in accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure overcome one or more of the above referenced and other deficiencies in conventional approaches to identifying various types of items or objects using an electronic device. In particular various embodiments enable a user to capture image information e.g. still images or video about an object of interest and receive information about items that are determined to match that object based at least in part on the image information. Further various embodiments can attempt to determine an orientation of the camera and or computing device used to capture the image information in order to attempt to reduce the potential search space for the matching process. For example certain types of objects are typically oriented or posed in a certain way such as where those objects have what would generally be referred to as a top and a bottom among other such orientations. By determining the orientation of the device such as whether a primary axis of the camera lens is substantially horizontal or substantially vertical a determination can be made as to the view of the object that likely is contained in the image e.g. a top down view a perspective view or a side view . Based at least in part upon this information the set of images to be used for matching the object can be reduced to images that include that type of view e.g. a side view . Further certain objects are primarily associated with a particular camera orientation such as paintings primarily being taken from a side or front view rather than a top down view. The orientation thus can also be used to limit images for the types of object to be matched. In some embodiments distance and or size information for an object represented in an image can be obtained as well in order to determine a scale of the object. Such approaches can limit the initial search space to attempt to increase the accuracy of search results as orientation or view information can be used to eliminate potential incorrect matches. Such approaches can also on average provide faster results and utilize fewer resources. If a match cannot be found in the limited search space the space can be expanded until a match is found or all appropriate images have been analyzed. Such an approach does not reduce the likelihood of finding a match as all images can still be compared but attempts to improve the speed and efficiency of the matching process among other such aspects.

Various other functions and advantages are described and suggested below as may be provided in accordance with the various embodiments.

In this example a camera on the device can capture image information including the book of interest and at least a portion of the image can be displayed on a display screen of the computing device. At least a portion of the image information can be analyzed and upon a match being located identifying information can be displayed back to the user via the display screen of the computing device . The portion of the image to be analyzed can be indicated manually such as by a user pointing to the book on the screen or drawing a bounding box around the book. In other embodiments one or more image analysis algorithms can attempt to automatically locate one or more objects in an image. In some embodiments a user can manually cause image information to be analyzed while in other embodiments the image information can be analyzed automatically either on the device or by transferring image data to a remote system or service as discussed later herein.

As discussed information such as that illustrated in can be located by streaming or otherwise transferring an image video and or other electronic data to a system or service operable to find one or more potential matches for that data and provide related information for those potential matches. illustrates an example environment in which such information can be located and transferred in accordance with various embodiments. In this example a user is able to capture one or more types of information using at least one computing device . For example a user can cause a device to capture audio and or video information around the device and can send at least a portion of that audio and or video information across at least one appropriate network to attempt to obtain information for one or more objects persons or occurrences within a field of view of the device. The network can be any appropriate network such as may include the Internet a local area network LAN a cellular network and the like. The request can be sent to an appropriate content provider as may provide one or more services systems or applications for processing such requests. The information can be sent by streaming or otherwise transmitting data as soon as it is obtained and or ready for transmission or can be sent in batches or through periodic communications. In some embodiments the computing device can invoke a service when a sufficient amount of image data is obtained in order to obtain a set of results. In other embodiments image data can be streamed or otherwise transmitted as quickly as possible in order to provide near real time results to a user of the computing device.

In this example the request is received to a network interface layer of the content provider . The network interface layer can include any appropriate components known or used to receive requests from across a network such as may include one or more application programming interfaces APIs or other such interfaces for receiving such requests. The network interface layer might be owned and operated by the provider or leveraged by the provider as part of a shared resource or cloud offering. The network interface layer can receive and analyze the request and cause at least a portion of the information in the request to be directed to an appropriate system or service such as a matching service as illustrated in . A matching service in this example includes components operable to receive image data about an object analyze the image data and return information relating to people products places or things that are determined to match objects in that image data.

The matching service in this example can cause information to be sent to at least one identification service device system or module that is operable to analyze the image data and attempt to locate one or more matches for objects reflected in the image data. In at least some embodiments an identification service will process the received data such as to extract points of interest or unique features in a captured image for example then compare the processed data against data stored in a matching data store or other such location. In other embodiments the unique feature points image histograms or other such information about an image can be generated on the device and uploaded to the matching service such that the identification service can use the processed image information to perform the match without a separate image analysis and feature extraction process. Certain embodiments can support both options among others. The data in an image matching data store might be indexed and or processed to facilitate with matching as is known for such purposes. For example the data store might include a set of histograms or feature vectors instead of a copy of the images to be used for matching which can increase the speed and lower the processing requirements of the matching. Approaches for generating image information to use for image matching are well known in the art and as such will not be discussed herein in detail.

The matching service can receive information from each contacted identification service as to whether one or more matches could be found with at least a threshold level of confidence for example and can receive any appropriate information for a located potential match. The information from each identification service can be analyzed and or processed by one or more applications of the matching service such as to determine data useful in obtaining information for each of the potential matches to provide to the user. For example a matching service might receive bar codes product identifiers or any other types of data from the identification service s and might process that data to be provided to a service such as an information aggregator service that is capable of locating descriptions or other content related to the located potential matches.

In at least some embodiments an information aggregator might be associated with an entity that provides an electronic marketplace or otherwise provides items or content for consumption e.g. purchase rent lease or download by various customers. Although products and electronic commerce are presented in this and other examples presented it should be understood that these are merely examples and that approaches presented in the present disclosure can relate to any appropriate types of objects or information as discussed and suggested elsewhere herein. In such an instance the information aggregator service can utilize the aggregated data from the matching service to attempt to locate products in a product data store or other such location which are offered through the marketplace and that match or are otherwise related to the potential match information. For example if the identification service identifies a book in the captured image or video data the information aggregator can attempt to determine whether there are any versions of that book physical or electronic offered through the marketplace or at least for which information is available through the marketplace. In at least some embodiments the information aggregator can utilize one or more suggestion algorithms or other such approaches to attempt to determine related elements that might be of interest based on the determined matches such as a movie or audio tape version of a book. In some embodiments the information aggregator can return various types of data or metadata to the environmental information service as may include title information availability reviews and the like. For facial recognition applications a data aggregator might instead be used that provides data from one or more social networking sites professional data services or other such entities. In other embodiments the information aggregator might instead return information such as a product identifier uniform resource locator URL or other such digital entity enabling a browser or other interface on the client device to obtain information for one or more products etc. The information aggregator can also utilize the aggregated data to obtain various other types of data as well. Information for located matches also can be stored in a user data store of other such location which can be used to assist in determining future potential matches or suggestions that might be of interest to the user. Various other types of information can be returned as well within the scope of the various embodiments.

The matching service can bundle at least a portion of the information for the potential matches to send to the client as part of one or more messages or responses to the original request. In some embodiments the information from the identification services might arrive at different times as different types of information might take longer to analyze etc. In these cases the matching service might send multiple messages to the client device as the information becomes available. The potential matches located by the various identification services can be written to a log data store or other such location in order to assist with future matches or suggestions as well as to help rate a performance of a given identification service. As should be understood each service can include one or more computing components such as at least one server as well as other components known for providing services as may include one or more APIs data storage and other appropriate hardware and software components.

It should be understood that although the identification services are shown to be part of the provider environment in that one or more of these identification services might be operated by third parties that offer these services to the provider. For example an electronic retailer might offer an application that can be installed on a computing device for identifying music or movies for purchase. When a user transfers a video clip for example the provider could forward this information to a third party who has software that specializes in identifying objects from video clips. The provider could then match the results from the third party with items from the retailer s electronic catalog in order to return the intended results to the user as one or more digital entities or references to something that exists in the digital world. In some embodiments the third party identification service can be configured to return a digital entity for each match which might be the same or a digital different digital entity than will be provided by the matching service to the client device . In some cases at least some of the functionality of a matching service can also be included on the client device which can provide advantages such as lower latency and the ability to obtain results in areas of less than optimal network connectivity among other such advantages. In some embodiments performing actions such as facial recognition can also have the advantage that the user s facial data can be stored locally on the device without having to be exposed to third party services or other such entities.

As mentioned however the information used for image matching typically corresponds to an image of an object taken from a particular orientation. While image matching algorithms can attempt to account for a small amount of deviation in orientation it will be unlikely that an image of a coffee table taken from the top will be able to match stored information for that coffee table where that information corresponds to an image taken from the side of the coffee table as the unique features of the side of the table will generally not be present in a top view of the table. In order to account for these variations a matching service can store multiple views of various types of item. As pointed out however such an approach increases the number of images to be matched against a query image submitted by a user such that the matching process can take longer to complete and can consume more memory processing time and power among other such resources.

Systems and methods in accordance with various embodiments can attempt to utilize orientation information to at least reduce the initial search space to be used for image matching and or object recognition. For example consider the situation of . In this example the object of interest is a shoe. The shoe has a sole that is designed to face downward and an opening for a foot that is generally designed to be facing upward. Accordingly more often than not a shoe will be in an orientation as illustrated in . Various other types of objects have similar typical orientations or poses as well. As illustrated in a computing device is oriented with a primary plane of the device in a primarily vertical orientation. If a camera used to capture an image has a primary axis that is substantially orthogonal to the primary plane of the device and the object of interest is within a field of view of that camera then it can be determined that the primary axis of the camera in this device orientation is within an angular range of horizontal. Thus for objects that have a particular orientation the representation of that object in the image will likely also have a primary orientation. In FIG. the object is a shoe that has a primary orientation such that when the camera and or device are in the illustrated orientation it is more likely than not that the view of the shoe in a captured image such as that illustrated in will be a side view or side perspective view depending at least in part on the angle with respect to gravity or anther such reference. It is possible of course that the shoe might be turned on its side but the odds of the shoe being in its primary orientation are sufficient to warrant searching for matching images showing a side view first in order to hopefully more quickly match the object in the image.

Similarly in the situation of the orientation of the device is such that the primary plane of the device is relatively horizontal such that the primary axis of the lens of the camera is substantially vertical or in the direction of gravity. Accordingly it can be determined that the camera is likely taking a top down view of an object. Again for an object such as a shoe this will more likely than not correspond to a top view of the shoe as illustrated in the image of . As can be seen the views of the same shoe in the two images are significantly different such that the same image stored by the matching service would be unlikely to match both images even if the exact same shoe were represented. Accordingly it can be advantageous to determine which view is likely shown in the image based at least in part upon the orientation of the device and then limit the initial search to views of objects matching that view. For example if the device is such that the view is likely a top down view then the matching service can start with top down view images for matching instead of side view images. Various other views and determinations can be utilized as well within the scope of the various embodiments.

The orientation of a device can be determined in any of a number of different ways. For example the device might include at least one motion and or orientation sensor that can assist with the orientation determination. For example an accelerometer detects and utilizes the direction of gravity which can be used to determine the approximate orientation of the device at the time an image is captured. Similarly an electronic compass can give location information in three dimensions which can be used to determine the orientation of the device. Sensors such as gyroscopes can provide information about a speed and direction of rotation which can be used with an accelerometer or gyroscope to provide a more accurate orientation determination. Various other types of sensors can be used to determine orientation as well. In some embodiments the image information might be analyzed to attempt to determine an orientation as well such as to determine the orientation of visible doors or the relative location of the sun in the captured image information among other such options. For example if the device can determine the relative orientation of the sun in an image the device can determine the relative orientation of the device. Similarly if the device can determine that a door represented in a captured image is substantially upright then the device can determine that the device is substantially upright as well. If the computing device knows the relative orientation of one or more cameras with respect to the device and can determine the orientation of the device with respect to the earth or another point of reference the device can determine the relative orientation of the camera at the time the picture was taken.

In some embodiments the user might indicate to the device or an application executing on the device the type of object that is being captured. For example the user might be utilizing a shoe specific application might be browsing a shoe category or might manually input that the user is capturing an image of a shoe in order to reduce the search space and improve the speed at which a match can be obtained. In other embodiments where this information may not be available or where narrowing to a sub category might be possible a matching service or other such entity can attempt to use the orientation information to attempt to reduce the number of categories to be searched at least in an initial phase of the matching process. For example objects such as paintings doors aquariums televisions windows and other such objects might typically be captured in images using a side view orientation. Objects such as carpet tile and hardwood flooring might typically be captured using a top down orientation. By knowing the orientation of the device the type of objects to be matched might be adjusted such that objects that typically are captured using a different orientation are at least initially excluded from the image matching process.

At least one camera of the computing device can be used to capture image information including one or more images video stereoscopic information etc. At or around the time of image capture a determination can be made as to the orientation of the device and or the camera used to capture the image information. As discussed this can include using one or more sensors of the device to determine the orientation of the device and using this information to determine the orientation of the camera capturing the image information. At least a portion of the image information and the orientation information can be provided to an image matching object recognition or other such system or service. As discussed at least some processing of the image can be performed on the computing device and in some cases the uploading image information can include a histogram vector a set of feature points or other such information useful for matching. In some embodiments the matching might also be performed on the computing device itself using image information stored locally or remotely. In response to the information the computing device can receive information for one or more matching results if located and can display at least a portion of the results to the user via a display element of the computing device.

In some embodiments the orientation of the device can be used to help guide the user in capturing an image. For example consider the view displayed in . In this example the user might have indicated a shoe category and have the device in a top down orientation. An application having access to that information might cause an orientation guide to be displayed that is intended to help guide the user to orient a view of the shoe in a certain way so as to assist with the matching process such as to orient the top down view of the shoe in a way that matches how images in an image data store were captured. Similarly illustrates a view where a different orientation guide is displayed when a change in the device orientation is detected such that the device would likely capture an image with a side view orientation. Various other guides and information can be provided as well within the scope of the various embodiments. In some embodiments the user can manipulate stretch flip or otherwise adjust the guide to match the view of the object in the image and information about the adjusted guide can be provided with the image information to assist with the matching process.

In some embodiments a determination of a category for an object of interest can cause a client device to determine the appropriate orientation for capturing an image of an object in that category. For example a shoe might be best captured from the side for matching while a book might best be captured from the front and flooring might be best captured using a top down view. If the user captured or is capturing an image using a different orientation the device might suggest that the user additionally or alternatively capture an image using the determined orientation for that category in order to improve the likelihood that a successful match can be located.

Similarly the device or software having access to image data captured on the device might perform image analysis to determine the presence of specular reflections saturations or other such artifacts that might result from a glare reflection from a shiny object etc. In such circumstances the computing device might prompt the user to adjust the orientation and or location of the device in order to avoid or at least minimize the presence of the artifact which can improve the quality of the captured image and thus help to improve the accuracy of the matching results.

As mentioned approaches in accordance with various embodiments can also use techniques such as stereoscopic imaging auto focus mechanisms or distance finding e.g. sonic techniques to attempt to determine the size and or scale of an object in order to assist with image matching and improve accuracy. For example the image might include a representation of a particular type and model of car. If the scale of the object can be determined the matching process might be able to determine whether the object corresponds to an actual car a miniature toy model of the car etc. Such information can also be used to select appropriate categories in at least some embodiments.

The example computing device also includes at least one microphone or other audio capture device capable of capturing audio data such as words or commands spoken by a user of the device. In this example a microphone is placed on the same side of the device as the display screen such that the microphone will typically be better able to capture words spoken by a user of the device. In at least some embodiments a microphone can be a directional microphone that captures sound information from substantially directly in front of the microphone and picks up only a limited amount of sound from other directions. It should be understood that a microphone might be located on any appropriate surface of any region face or edge of the device in different embodiments and that multiple microphones can be used for audio recording and filtering purposes etc.

The example computing device also includes at least one orientation sensor such as a position and or movement determining element. Such a sensor can include for example an accelerometer or gyroscope operable to detect an orientation and or change in orientation of the computing device as well as small movements of the device. An orientation sensor also can include an electronic or digital compass which can indicate a direction e.g. north or south in which the device is determined to be pointing e.g. with respect to a primary axis or other such aspect . An orientation sensor also can include or comprise a global positioning system GPS or similar positioning element operable to determine relative coordinates for a position of the computing device as well as information about relatively large movements of the device. Various embodiments can include one or more such elements in any appropriate combination. As should be understood the algorithms or mechanisms used for determining relative position orientation and or movement can depend at least in part upon the selection of elements available to the device.

In some embodiments the computing device of can include one or more communication elements such as a Wi Fi Bluetooth RF wired or wireless communication system. The device in many embodiments can communicate with a network such as the Internet and may be able to communicate with other such devices. In some embodiments the device can include at least one additional input device able to receive conventional input from a user. This conventional input can include for example a push button touch pad touch screen wheel joystick keyboard mouse keypad or any other such device or element whereby a user can input a command to the device. In some embodiments however such a device might not include any buttons at all and might be controlled only through a combination of visual and audio commands such that a user can control the device without having to be in contact with the device.

The device also can include at least one orientation or motion sensor . As discussed such a sensor can include an accelerometer or gyroscope operable to detect an orientation and or change in orientation or an electronic or digital compass which can indicate a direction in which the device is determined to be facing. The mechanism s also or alternatively can include or comprise a global positioning system GPS or similar positioning element operable to determine relative coordinates for a position of the computing device as well as information about relatively large movements of the device. The device can include other elements as well such as may enable location determinations through triangulation or another such approach. These mechanisms can communicate with the processor whereby the device can perform any of a number of actions described or suggested herein.

As an example a computing device such as that described with respect to can capture and or track various information for a user over time. This information can include any appropriate information such as location actions e.g. sending a message or creating a document user behavior e.g. how often a user performs a task the amount of time a user spends on a task the ways in which a user navigates through an interface etc. user preferences e.g. how a user likes to receive information open applications submitted requests received calls and the like. As discussed above the information can be stored in such a way that the information is linked or otherwise associated whereby a user can access the information using any appropriate dimension or group of dimensions.

As discussed different approaches can be implemented in various environments in accordance with the described embodiments. For example illustrates an example of an environment for implementing aspects in accordance with various embodiments. As will be appreciated although a Web based environment is used for purposes of explanation different environments may be used as appropriate to implement various embodiments. The system includes an electronic client device which can include any appropriate device operable to send and receive requests messages or information over an appropriate network and convey information hack to a user of the device. Examples of such client devices include personal computers cell phones handheld messaging devices laptop computers set top boxes personal data assistants electronic book readers and the like. The network can include any appropriate network including an intranet the Internet a cellular network a local area network or any other such network or combination thereof. Components used for such a system can depend at least in part upon the type of network and or environment selected. Protocols and components for communicating via such a network are well known and will not be discussed herein in detail. Communication over the network can be enabled via wired or wireless connections and combinations thereof. In this example the network includes the Internet as the environment includes a Web server for receiving requests and serving content in response thereto although for other networks an alternative device serving a similar purpose could be used as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art.

The illustrative environment includes at least one application server and a data store . It should be understood that there can be several application servers layers or other elements processes or components which may be chained or otherwise configured which can interact to perform tasks such as obtaining data from an appropriate data store. As used herein the term data store refers to any device or combination of devices capable of storing accessing and retrieving data which may include any combination and number of data servers databases data storage devices and data storage media in any standard distributed or clustered environment. The application server can include any appropriate hardware and software for integrating with the data store as needed to execute aspects of one or more applications for the client device and handling a majority of the data access and business logic for an application. The application server provides access control services in cooperation with the data store and is able to generate content such as text graphics audio and or video to be transferred to the user which may be served to the user by the Web server in the form of HTML XML or another appropriate structured language in this example. The handling of all requests and responses as well as the delivery of content between the client device and the application server can be handled by the Web server . It should be understood that the Web and application servers are not required and are merely example components as structured code discussed herein can be executed on any appropriate device or host machine as discussed elsewhere herein.

The data store can include several separate data tables databases or other data storage mechanisms and media for storing data relating to a particular aspect. For example the data store illustrated includes mechanisms for storing production data and user information which can be used to serve content for the production side. The data store also is shown to include a mechanism for storing log or session data . It should be understood that there can be many other aspects that may need to be stored in the data store such as page image information and access rights information which can be stored in any of the above listed mechanisms as appropriate or in additional mechanisms in the data store . The data store is operable through logic associated therewith to receive instructions from the application server and obtain update or otherwise process data in response thereto. In one example a user might submit a search request for a certain type of element. In this case the data store might access the user information to verify the identity of the user and can access the catalog detail information to obtain information about elements of that type. The information can then be returned to the user such as in a results listing on a Web page that the user is able to view via a browser on the user device . Information for a particular element of interest can be viewed in a dedicated page or window of the browser.

Each server typically will include an operating system that provides executable program instructions for the general administration and operation of that server and typically will include computer readable medium storing instructions that when executed by a processor of the server allow the server to perform its intended functions. Suitable implementations for the operating system and general functionality of the servers are known or commercially available and are readily implemented by persons having ordinary skill in the art particularly in light of the disclosure herein.

The environment in one embodiment is a distributed computing environment utilizing several computer systems and components that are interconnected via communication links using one or more computer networks or direct connections. However it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that such a system could operate equally well in a system having fewer or a greater number of components than are illustrated in . Thus the depiction of the system in should be taken as being illustrative in nature and not limiting to the scope of the disclosure.

As discussed above the various embodiments can be implemented in a wide variety of operating environments which in some cases can include one or more user computers computing devices or processing devices which can be used to operate any of a number of applications. User or client devices can include any of a number of general purpose personal computers such as desktop or laptop computers running a standard operating system as well as cellular wireless and handheld devices running mobile software and capable of supporting a number of networking and messaging protocols. Such a system also can include a number of workstations running any of a variety of commercially available operating systems and other known applications for purposes such as development and database management. These devices also can include other electronic devices such as dummy terminals thin clients gaming systems and other devices capable of communicating via a network.

Various aspects also can be implemented as part of at least one service or Web service such as may be part of a service oriented architecture. Services such as Web services can communicate using any appropriate type of messaging such as by using messages in extensible markup language XML format and exchanged using an appropriate protocol such as SOAP derived from the Simple Object Access Protocol . Processes provided or executed by such services can be written in any appropriate language such as the Web Services Description Language WSDL . Using a language such as WSDL allows for functionality such as the automated generation of client side code in various SOAP frameworks.

Most embodiments utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols such as TCP IP OSI FTP UPnP NFS CIFS and AppleTalk. The network can be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and any combination thereof.

In embodiments utilizing a Web server the Web server can run any of a variety of server or mid tier applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers data servers Java servers and business application servers. The server s also may be capable of executing programs or scripts in response requests from user devices such as by executing one or more Web applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations thereof. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase and IBM .

The environment can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments the information may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices each such device can include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus the elements including for example at least one central processing unit CPU at least one input device e.g. a mouse keyboard controller touch screen or keypad and at least one output device e.g. a display device printer or speaker . Such a system may also include one or more storage devices such as disk drives optical storage devices and solid state storage devices such as random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM as well as removable media devices memory cards flash cards etc.

Such devices also can include a computer readable storage media reader a communications device e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device etc. and working memory as described above. The computer readable storage media reader can be connected with or configured to receive a computer readable storage medium representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The system and various devices also typically will include a number of software applications modules services or other elements located within at least one working memory device including an operating system and application programs such as a client application or Web browser. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the a system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

