---

title: Integrated storage platform system and method thereof
abstract: The present invention discloses an integrated storage platform system and a method thereof. The system comprises at least one adaption module respectively connecting with at least one storage space and each performing a plurality of adaption settings corresponding to one storage space; a storage administration module connecting with the adaption modules and processing the files of the storage spaces; and an access interface connecting the storage administration module, operated by a user to access the storage space through the storage administration module and the adaption module, and presenting access results to the user. The present invention establishes different adaption modules to enable the user to link to and access different types of storage spaces.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08918599&OS=08918599&RS=08918599
owner: National Chiao Tung University
number: 08918599
owner_city: Hsinchu
owner_country: TW
publication_date: 20121116
---
The present invention relates to a cloud based storage technology particularly to an integrated storage platform system and a method thereof.

With popularization of the Internet many cloud based storage services appear in the Internet. Although there have been mechanisms to integrate storage spaces backup files and share data those mechanisms have some problems including the user have to deal with different operating environments of different storage services the user have to administrates a plurality of service account numbers network based storage service is hard to integrate with personal storage devices the network based storage service only supports file access.

For an example a scheme for constructing a global file system provides a single interface virtual file system for different FTP servers to overcome the problem that a user has to administrate a plurality of account numbers and deal with different operating environments. However the scheme can only provide a unitary access interface for FTP servers. It cannot enable the user to access the cloud based storage spaces commonly seen in the Internet nowadays. For another example a technology named Campus Cloud for Data Storage and Sharing provides the user with a single interface access service to access different file systems. For the inaccessible file systems the technology needs to install additional FTP servers to provide Internet access service of the files the user s computer cannot have the personal service to access the files.

Accordingly the present invention proposes an integrated storage platform system and a method thereof to overcome the abovementioned problems.

The primary objective of the present invention is to provide an integrated storage platform system and a method thereof which virtualize files to convert diversified storage services into a single interface service whereby the user can use a single interface to access different types of storage spaces.

Another objective of the present invention is to provide an integrated storage platform system and a method thereof which intercourse with different storage space providers through a plurality of adaption modules wherein the adaption modules respectively have adaption settings corresponding to different types of storage spaces whereby various types of storage spaces in the networks are integrated in the storage platform of the present invention.

Yet another objective of the present invention is to provide an integrated storage platform system and a method thereof which store the account numbers and passwords of various storage spaces in the configuration file of the storage administration module whereby the user is exempted from memorizing the account numbers and passwords of various storage spaces or entering the account numbers and passwords when he intends to access the storage spaces.

A further objective of the present invention is to provide an integrated storage platform system and a method thereof which present the storage spaces as file folders in the user s computer whereby the user can access the storage spaces conveniently.

To achieve the abovementioned objectives the present invention proposes an integrated storage platform system which comprises at least one adaption module an access interface and a storage administration module. The adaption modules respectively link to storage spaces and undertake a plurality of adaption settings corresponding to the storage spaces. The user operates the access interface to access the storage spaces through the storage administration module and the adaption modules. The access interface further presents the results of access to the user. One end of the storage administration module connects with the adaption modules and the other end of the storage administration module connects with the access interface. The storage administration module processes the files of the storage spaces.

The present invention also proposes an access method of an integrated storage platform system which enables users to add delete edit and look up storage spaces and which comprises steps an access interface sending a command of a user to a storage administration module the storage administration module selecting an appropriate adaption module from at least one adaption module according to the command and linking to a corresponding storage space of at least one storage space through the appropriate adaption module and presenting to the user a content of the corresponding storage space through the access interface to enable the user to access the corresponding storage space through the storage administration module and the appropriate adaption module.

Below embodiments are described in detail to make easily understood the objectives technical contents characteristics and accomplishments of the present invention.

The present invention discloses an integrated storage platform ISP system and a method thereof. Refer to a block diagram schematically showing an ISP system according to one embodiment of the present invention. The ISP system of the present invention comprises an integrated storage platform . The integrated storage platform further comprises an access interface a storage administration module and at least one adaption module . Each adaption module connects with a storage space and undertakes a plurality of related adaption settings. The user operates the access interface is a user s operating interface. The user operates the access interface to access the storage space through the storage administration module and adaption module . The access interface presents the access results to the user . The storage administration module connects with the adaption module at one end and connects with the access interface at another end enabling the data access between the user and the storage space . Each storage space stores at least one file.

Different services need different adaption modules . Each adaption module has adaption settings corresponding to the related storage space . The storage spaces include a cloud based webmail box an FTP server a webpage server and a local disc . The cloud based webmail box and the FTP server are implemented by the standard protocol or the corresponding API Application Programming Interface . The webpage server is implemented by the web browser the HTTP or HTML webpage server such as the Dropio Share1t or Picasa webpage server. The local disc is accessed through an operating system . The cloud based webmail box FTP server and webpage server are accessed through the Internet .

The storage spaces provided by different storage providers SP are respectively presented as different folders in the user side.

The authentication information such as the user s account numbers and passwords is stored in the storage administration module beforehand. While the user intends to access one storage space the authentication is undertaken between the storage administration module and the storage space through the adaption modules .

Refer to schematically showing that a user accesses a storage space via an integrated storage platform system according to one embodiment of the present invention. In this embodiment the user possesses three storage spaces a webmail box an FTP server not shown in the and a local disc . The webmail box is a Gmail box. Therefore the integrated storage platform system includes three adaption modules a Gmail adaption module Gmail AM a server adaption module server AM and a disc adaption module disc AM . Thus file folders of Gmail FTP and a disc are presented on the computer of the user . While intending to duplicate a piece of data from the webmail box to the local disc the user clicks on the Gmail folder which is equal to giving a command to the integrated storage platform system . Thus the access interface transfers the command to the storage administration module . Because it is the Gmail folder that is clicked on by the user the storage administration module transfers the command to the Gmail adaption module . Then the Gmail adaption module links to the webmail box through the Internet and returns the names of the files in the webmail box to the user . Thus the user can see that the Gmail folder contains five files and selects one of them. Then the selected file is duplicated to the local disc via the storage administration module and the disc adaption module .

In one embodiment the user sends a command to the storage administration module through the access interface and the storage administration module then returns the contents of the storage space to the user . Thereby the user can communicate with and operate the storage spaces more easily.

All the user s commands work in a way of file accessing. Refer to . The integrated storage platform further comprises a processing module a metadata storage unit and a configuration file which are all arranged in the storage administration module refer to again . The integrated storage platform uses the processing module to execute the commands to delete rename and duplicate the files . The processing module stores the names and routes of the files in the metadata storage unit . The configuration file stores the authentication information and the relationships between adaption modules . The metadata storage unit and the configuration file implement the processing module to process the files . For example in order to transfer files via different adaption modules the integrated storage platform has to learn the related adaption modules beforehand from the configuration file .

Refer to a block diagram schematically showing names and addresses of files are accessed from a storage administration module of an ISP system according to one embodiment of the present invention. In the present invention the resources of all the storage providers SP are also stored in form of files. For example while the user intends to store a file the graphic file Car.gif into the webpage server the processing module transfers file to the webpage server through a webpage server adaption module and the Internet . At the same time the processing module stores the address http flickr.com 33ERyt and the name of the file into the metadata storage unit . The present invention virtualizes the physical resources into metadata and operates the metadata rather than the physical resources.

Suppose that a user intends to share his files stored in the storage spaces. ISP of the user would be regarded as an ISP Integrated Storage Platform server and the other users linking to the ISP server are the clients of ISP. Refer to . In such a case two different types of records are stored in the metadata storage unit including the metadata of the virtualized files and the metadata of the shared files.

In the files are stored in the Gmail storage space of the ISP server and presented as files to the user of the ISP server. Two ISP clients use the integrated storage platforms and which are the same as the ISP server to link to the processing module of the ISP server through the adaption modules and . The processing module obtains the authentication information from the configuration file and obtains the names and addresses of the files and from the metadata storage unit . The file is transferred to the adaption modules and through the integrated storage platform . Then the processing modules and process the file and present the file to the two users of ISP clients. In the whole access process neither the users of ISP clients nor the user of ISP server needs to enter the account number or password.

Refer to a flowchart showing a requesting process between at least two ISPs according to one embodiment of the present invention. Firstly the user sends out a registering information for authentication. After the storage administration module in the client side ISP has confirmed the user the user begins to wait for the storage administration module to link to the storage administration module and ask for a file. Next the storage administration module is triggered to send a notification to the storage administration module . The storage administration module holds the requesting state and triggers the user to prepare for operation.

Refer to a flowchart showing a fundamental process of accessing a file according to one embodiment of the present invention. The user sends a UI User s Interface command to the storage administration module . The processing module of the storage administration module executes the logic of the command and sends the command to the adaption module in form of a file. The adaption module converts the command into a resource requesting command for accessing a file. After receiving the resource requesting command the storage space returns the file to the user s computer through the adaption module and the storage administration module . Thus is completed a response to the command.

Refer to a flowchart showing the process of confirming the shared file according to one embodiment of the present invention. There are an ISP client and an ISP server in . Firstly a UI command is sent to the storage administration module . The processing module of the storage administration module executes the logic of the command collates the request of the command and sends the request lists to the adaption module . The adaption module sends the request list to the ISP server. The processing module would obtain from the metadata storage unit all the information of the shared file in the ISP server and returns the information to the ISP client.

In conclusion the present invention proposes an integrated storage platform system to integrate cloud based storage spaces network based file systems and local file systems whereby the user can use a single personal interface to access the storage spaces provided by different storage space providers. While having a new cloud based storage space the user can continue using the original interface via only installing a corresponding adaption module. The present invention enables the user to continue the previous operating experience and use the original operating interface. Further the present invention also enables the user to administrate numerous storage spaces simultaneously.

The embodiments described above are only to exemplify the present invention but not to limit the scope of the present invention. Any equivalent modification or variation according to the spirit or characteristic of the present invention is to be also included within the scope of the present invention.

