---

title: Methods and systems for implementing security policies on a mobile device
abstract: Methods and devices for implementing security policies on a wireless device. The wireless device may include a non-volatile memory comprising a security type hard-coded in the non-volatile memory. Based on the security type, it may be determined whether a received security policy governing behavior of one or more resources designated as personal is applicable to the one or more resources designated as personal. If the security type is determined to indicate that the received security policy is not applicable to the one or more resources designated as personal, the security policy may not be applied to the one or more resources designated as personal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09367705&OS=09367705&RS=09367705
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09367705
owner_city: Waterloo
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20121022
---
The present disclosure relates generally to methods and systems for implementing security policies on a mobile device for example to avoid tampering or other modifications or programs data and or access authorization.

Employees are increasingly using their personal mobile devices in the corporate environment. A corporation often wishes to impose security policies on such devices in order to protect the security of the corporation. However employees often find it intrusive when such security policies are applied to personal data on the device.

Attempts to separate personal and corporate data on the device using software applications often are unsatisfactory since the boundary between personal and corporate data may be changed and or made permeable using the same or different software on the device.

It would be useful to provide a corporation or enterprise with the administrative control needed to address security concerns while balancing this need with the desire of the user for privacy and freedom to use the device without undue constraint from a corporate administrator.

It will be noted that throughout the appended drawings like features are identified by like reference numerals.

In some example aspects the present disclosure provides a wireless device comprising a non volatile memory comprising a designation of a security type hard coded in the non volatile memory and a processor coupled to the non volatile memory the processor being configured to execute computer readable instructions to cause the device to determine based on the security type whether a received security policy governing behavior of one or more resources designated as personal is applicable to the one or more resources designated as personal if the security type is determined to indicate that the received security policy is not applicable to the one or more resources designated as personal not apply the security policy to the one or more resources designated as personal and if the security type is determined to indicate that the received security policy is applicable to the one or more resources designated as personal apply the security policy to the one or more resources designated as personal.

In some examples if the security type is determined to indicate that the received security policy is not applicable to the one or more resources designated as personal the security policy may be applied only to any resources not designated as personal.

In some examples the security type may be one of personal liable which indicates that no security policies are applicable to resources designated as personal corporate liable which indicates that at least one security policy is applicable to resources designated as personal and regulated which indicates that all security policies are applicable to resources designated as personal.

In some examples the security policy may include at least one of a whole device password policy a whole device encryption policy a whole device wipe policy a personal data access policy an email audit trail creation policy and a messaging audit trail creation policy.

In some examples the security type may be not changeable by any application executed by the processor.

In some example aspects the present disclosure provides a method for setting a security type on a wireless device the method comprising after receiving a request for registration of the wireless device on a network determining based on at least one of the request and a network type of the network a security type for the wireless device and transmitting instructions to the wireless device to cause the determined security type to be hard coded in a non volatile memory of the wireless device.

In some examples a designation of the security type may be hard coded in a byte of the non volatile memory.

In some examples if the network type is an enterprise network the security type may be determined to indicate permission to apply at least one security policy governing one or more resources designated as personal on the device.

In some examples if the network type is a public network the security type may be determined to indicate protection against applying a security policy governing one or more resources designated as personal on the device.

In some examples the request may include an upgrade key and the security type may be determined to indicate permission to apply all security policies governing one or more resources designated as personal on the device.

In some examples the method may include receiving signals from the wireless device indicating that the security type of the device has been changed or has not been changed.

In some examples aspects the present disclosure provides a method for setting a security type on a wireless device the method comprising receiving instructions to change the security type of the device from a first security type to a second security type determining whether the security type of the device is changeable after determining that the security type of the device is changeable changing in a non volatile memory of the device from the first security type to the second security type and after determining that the security type of the device is not changeable maintaining the first security type.

In some examples determining whether the security type of the device is changeable may be based on at least one of a permission flag stored on the device the first security type and the second security type.

In some examples when the permission flag indicates the security type is not changeable it may be determined that the security type of the device is not changeable.

In some examples when the first security type indicates permission to apply one or more security policies governing one or more resources designated as personal on the device and the second security type indicates permission to apply all security policies governing one or more resources designated as personal on the device it may be determined that the security type of the device is changeable.

In some examples the method may include after changing the security type of the device to the second security type changing the permission flag to indicate that the security type is not changeable.

In some examples the method may include transmitting signals to indicate that the security type of the device has changed or has not changed.

In some examples the instructions to change the security type may be received from an authorized source and it may be determined that the security type of the device is changeable.

In various aspects and examples the present disclosure may enable different security policies to be applied depending on the security type of a device. Security type may include corporate liable personal liable and regulated as will be described further below. For example an enterprise security policy may apply differently to corporate liable devices than to personal liable devices. This may allow the same device model to have different behavior within the same corporation depending on the security type of the device.

Depending on the functionality provided by the wireless device in various example embodiments the wireless device may be a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a mobile telephone such as a smartphone a wearable computers such as a watch a tablet computer such as a slate computer a personal digital assistant PDA or a computer system. The wireless device may take other forms apart from those specifically listed above. The electronic device may also be referred to as a mobile communications device a communication device a mobile device and in some cases as a device.

The wireless device may communicate with a wireless communication network such as a wireless local area network WLAN . For example the wireless network and the wireless device may operate in accordance with IEEE 802.11 standards.

The wireless network may be a public network or a private network. For example the wireless network may be a private communication network e.g. virtual private network VPN of an enterprise e.g. an organization a company a corporation among others . The wireless network may include one or more wireless access points APs one or more servers and one or more gateways. The AP s and or gateway s may be configured to permit or deny access to the data applications and or functionality offered via the wireless network for example depending on whether or not a device has been authorized and what access rights are given upon authorization.

The wireless network which may be an infrastructure WLAN may provide or allow access to various data and communication services to its terminals. For example the wireless networks may provide for communication access to the Internet via a web browser application or voice telephony communication service with use of Voice over IP VoIP communication or other communication services. For push type data or message synchronization services for example the wireless device may be enabled to maintain data synchronization with a server for user data of an application associated with a user account.

The wireless device may be additionally configured to access communication services via a Public Land Wireless Network PLMN e.g. a cellular telecommunications network . For communication with PLMNs the wireless device may be configured in accordance with one or more cellular telecommunication standards such as Global Systems for Mobile GSM and or General Packet Radio Service GPRS technologies. However such wireless device may additionally or alternatively operate in accordance with other such cellular standards such as Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE or Enhanced GPRS EGPRS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Long Term Evolution LTE or EVolution Data Only EV DO for CDMA technologies as a few examples.

Further in additional to being operative for communications with infrastructure WLANs e.g. IEEE 802.11 infrastructure WLANs the wireless device may additionally or alternatively communicate using peer to peer communication techniques for example in accordance with the Wi Fi Peer To Peer P2P Technical specification and or be certified as a Wi Fi Direct device. The Wi Fi Peer To Peer P2P Technical specification is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The wireless device may include a controller including one or more processors such as a microprocessor for controlling the overall operation of wireless device . The processor may interact with one or more device subsystems such as one or more wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor may be communicably coupled with one or more additional device subsystems such as one or more output interfaces such as a display and or a speaker and or electromagnetic EM radiation source one or more input interfaces such as a camera microphone keyboard not shown control buttons not shown a navigational input device not shown and or a touch sensitive overlay not shown associated with one or more touchscreen displays one or more orientation subsystems one or more memories such as flash memory non volatile random access memory NVRAM read only memory ROM among others one or more auxiliary input output I O subsystems one or more data ports which may be a serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port one or more near field communications NFC subsystems one or more short range communication subsystems and other suitable device subsystems generally designated as . One or more of the subsystems may perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

In some examples the wireless device may include one or more touchscreen displays which may serve as both an input interface e.g. a touch sensitive overlay and an output interface e.g. a display . The touchscreen display s may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface connected to an electronic controller and which overlays the display . The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller may provide a touch sensitive input interface and the processor may interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller. In some examples the touch sensitive overlay may have a touch sensitive input surface which is larger than the display . For example the touch sensitive overlay may extend overtop of a frame see which may surround the display . In such example embodiments the frame may be referred to as an active frame since it may be capable of acting as an input interface . In some examples the touch sensitive overlay may extend to the sides of the wireless device .

In some examples the wireless device may include communication subsystem s which may allow the wireless device to communicate over the wireless network . The communication subsystem s may include a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more antenna elements and local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP . The antenna elements and may be embedded or internal to the wireless device and a single antenna may be shared by both receiver and transmitter. The particular design of the wireless communication subsystem s may depend on the wireless network in which the wireless device is intended to operate.

In some examples the wireless device may communicate with any one of a plurality of stations or APs of the wireless network within its geographic coverage area. For example the wireless device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Signals received by the antenna from the wireless network may be input to the receiver which may perform various receiver functions including for example signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering and channel selection as well as analog to digital ND conversion. ND conversion of a received signal may allow more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . Signals to be transmitted may be processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP . These DSP processed signals may be input to the transmitter for processing such as digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the wireless network via the antenna . The DSP may not only process communication signals but may also provide for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

In some examples the auxiliary input output I O subsystem s may include an external communication link or interface such as an Ethernet connection. The wireless device may include other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network. The auxiliary I O subsystem s may include a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on the wireless device such as receipt of an electronic communication or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback touch feedback .

The data port s may be used for synchronization with an external computing system such as a user s host computer system not shown . The data port s may enable a user to set one or more preferences through an external device or software application and may extend the capabilities of the wireless device by enabling information and or software downloads to the wireless device other than through the wireless network . An alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the wireless device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication. The data port s may also allow for specialized and or secure configuration or reconfiguration of the wireless device at a manufacturer or at a repair facility for example.

In some examples the wireless device may include one or more device orientation subsystems including one or more orientation sensors connected to the processor and which may be controlled by a monitoring circuit and or operating software. The orientation sensor s may detect the orientation of the wireless device and or other information such as acceleration from which the orientation of the wireless device may be determined. The orientation sensor s may generate orientation signals which may indicate the orientation of the wireless device . The orientation signals in some examples may specify the orientation of the wireless device relative to the gravitational field of the earth.

In some examples the orientation sensor s may be an accelerometer such as a three axis accelerometer. An accelerometer may be any sensor which converts acceleration from motion e.g. movement of the wireless device or a portion thereof due to a strike force and gravity which may be detected by a sensing element into an electrical signal e.g. producing a corresponding change in output . The accelerometer may have a one two or three axis configuration. Higher order axis configurations are also possible. The accelerometer may produce digital or analog output signals depending on the type of accelerometer.

In some example embodiments the orientation subsystem s may include other orientation sensors instead of or in addition to accelerometer s . For example the orientation subsystem s may include a gravity sensor a gyroscope a tilt sensor an electronic compass or other suitable sensor or combinations thereof. In some examples the device orientation subsystem s may include two or more orientation sensors such as an accelerometer and an electronic compass.

In some examples the wireless device may include one or more near field communications NFC subsystems . The NFC subsystem s is configured to communicate with other wireless devices and or tags using an NFC communications protocol. NFC may be a set of short range wireless technologies which enables short range e.g. a distance of 4 cm or less communications. The NFC subsystem s may include an NFC chip and an NFC antenna.

The wireless device may include one or more microphones and or one or more speakers. In some examples the wireless device may include a plurality of speakers . For example the wireless device may include two or more speakers . The speakers may for example be disposed in spaced relation to one another. In some examples the wireless device may include a first speaker and a second speaker where the first speaker and the second speaker may be spatially separated from one another e.g. within the wireless device . In some examples the display may be disposed between the first speaker and the second speaker. For example the first speaker may be located at one side of the display and the second speaker may be located at another side of the display which is opposite the side of the display where the first speaker is located. For example the first speaker may be disposed at a left side of the display and the second speaker may be disposed at a right side of the display. In some examples each speaker may be associated with a separate audio channel. The multiple speakers may for example be used to provide stereophonic sound which may also be referred to as stereo .

The wireless device may also include one or more cameras . The camera s may be capable of capturing images in the form of still photographs and or motion video. In some examples the wireless device may include one or more front facing cameras which may be configured to capture images from the view point of a front face of the wireless device . The front face may be defined as the face on which the display is mounted. That is the display may be configured to display content which may be viewed from a side of the wireless device from which the camera s is directed. The front facing camera s may be located anywhere on the front surface of the wireless device . For example the front facing camera s may be located above or below the display . The front facing camera s may be a fixed position camera which may not be movable relative to the display of the wireless device and or the housing of the wireless device . In such examples the direction of capture of the camera s may be predictable relative to the display and or the housing. In some examples a camera may be provided in a central location relative to the display to facilitate image acquisition of a face for example. The wireless device may also include one or more rear facing cameras which may be configured to capture images from the view point of a rear face of the wireless device . The rear face of the wireless device may be defined as the face opposite to the front face. The rear facing camera s may be positioned to allow capture of a target while displaying the captured image one the display for example.

In some examples the wireless device may include an electromagnetic EM radiation source . In some examples the EM radiation source may be configured to emit EM radiation from the side of the wireless device which is associated with a camera . For example where the camera is a front facing camera the EM radiation source may be configured to emit EM radiation from the front face of the wireless device . That is the EM radiation source may be configured to emit radiation in a direction which may be detected by the camera . That is the camera and the EM radiation source may be disposed on the wireless device so that EM radiation emitted by the EM radiation source may be captured in images obtained by the camera .

In some examples the EM radiation source may be an infrared IR radiation source which is configured to emit IR radiation. In some examples the EM radiation source may be configured to emit radiation which is not part of the visible spectrum. The camera may be configured to capture radiation of the type emitted by the EM radiation source . For example the camera may be configured to capture at least some EM radiation which is not in the visible spectrum.

In some examples the wireless device may be provided with one or more service routing application programming interfaces APIs which may provide an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data e.g. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to an external e.g. host computing system using standard connectivity protocols. For example when a user connects the wireless device to a host computer system via a USB cable or a Bluetooth connection any traffic from the host computer system that was destined for the wireless network may be automatically routed to the wireless device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic from the wireless device that was destined for the wireless network may be automatically sent over the USB cable Bluetooth connection to the host computer system for processing.

In some examples the wireless device may include one or more batteries as a power source for example one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to one or more battery interfaces such as a data port . The battery ies may provide electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the wireless device and the battery interface s may provide a mechanical and or electrical connection for the battery ies . The battery interface s may be coupled to a regulator not shown which may provide a regulated voltage to the circuitry for powering the wireless device .

In some examples the wireless device may include one or more short range communication subsystems which may provide for wireless communication between the wireless device and other devices e.g. another wireless device . The short range communication subsystem s may be used to provide a preferred device mode between the wireless device and another wireless device which may in at least some example embodiments be a wireless device which is the same or similar to the wireless device . In some examples the short range communication subsystem s may be a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

In some examples the wireless device may store data in an erasable persistent memory which may be the flash memory . In some examples the data may include service data including information required by the wireless device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents image files and other user information stored on the wireless device e.g. by a user and other data. The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the wireless device may be organized at least partially into one or more databases and or data stores. The database s and or data store s may contain data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in respective individual databases within the device memory.

The wireless device may in some examples be a mobile communication device which may provide at least two principal modes of communication including a data communication mode and a voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or Web page download may be processed by the communication subsystem s and input to the processor s for further processing. For example a downloaded Web page may be further processed by a browser application or an email message may be processed by an email messaging application and output to the display s . A user of the wireless device may also compose data items such as email messages for example using the input device s in conjunction with the display s . These composed items may be transmitted through the communication subsystem s over the wireless network .

In the voice communication mode the wireless device may provide one or more telephony functions and may operate as a cellular phone. Received signals would be output to the speaker s and signals for transmission may be generated by a transducer such as the microphone s . The telephony function s may be provided by software firmware e.g. a voice communication module and or hardware e.g. the microphone s the speaker s and or input interface s . Other voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the wireless device . Although voice or audio signal output may be accomplished through the speaker s the display s may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The processor s may operate under stored program control and may execute one or more software modules stored in a memory such as a persistent memory for example in the flash memory . The software module s may include for example operating system software and other software applications .

The software application s resident in the wireless device may include various applications including for example a notepad application an Internet browser application a voice communication e.g. telephony application a mapping application a media player application or any combination thereof. Each of the software application s may include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements e.g. text fields input fields icons among others in a user interface according to the application .

The software module s or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into a volatile memory. Volatile memory may be used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and a different assignment of functions to different types of memory may be used.

A predetermined set of application s that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications may be installed on the wireless device during or after manufacture. Additional application s and or upgrade s to the operating system and or software application s may also be loaded onto the wireless device through wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem s the data port s the short range communication subsystem s and or other suitable subsystem s . The downloaded program s or code module s may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory e.g. the flash memory or written into and executed from volatile memory for execution by the processor s at runtime.

Non volatile memory such as the NVRAM may contain instructions that may be hard coded into the wireless device which may not be accessible by applications executed by the processor s . For example the NVRAM may include data designating a device security type such as a security type byte . The security type byte may reside in and or be governed by the operating system . The operating system may protect the security type byte from being tampered with or otherwise changed by unauthorized personnel. For example there may be a permission field or flag which may be maintained and or protected for example by the operating system against unauthorized change such as a security type changeable field or device class permanent flag not shown to indicate whether the security type byte is changeable. For example such a permission field or flag may be protected against tampering by enabling changing of the permission field or flag only by a root process on the device such as a task generated by the operating system and or by a root user. A manufacturer and or repair facility may be able to access and change the value of the permission field or flag directly as a root user but this may not be possible for unauthorized parties. The security type byte will be further described below.

The smartphone may include the components discussed above with reference to or a subset of those components. The smartphone may includes a housing which houses at least some of the components discussed above with reference to .

For example the smartphone may include a display which may be a touchscreen display which may serve as an input interface . The display may be disposed so that it is viewable on a front side of the smartphone . That is a viewable side of the display may be disposed on the front side of the smartphone . In the example shown the display may be framed by the housing .

The smartphone may include other input interfaces such as one or more buttons keys or navigational input mechanisms. In the example illustrated at least some of these additional input interfaces may be disposed for actuation from the front side of the smartphone .

The smartphone may include a speaker . In the example illustrated the smartphone may include a single speaker which may be disposed vertically above the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width e.g. as shown in . The speaker may be disposed on the front face of the smartphone .

While the example smartphone of includes a single speaker in other examples the smartphone may include a greater number of speakers . For example in some examples the smartphone may include a second speaker which may be disposed vertically below the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width.

The smartphone may include a microphone . In the example illustrated the microphone may be vertically disposed below the display when the smartphone is held in the portrait orientation. The microphone and at least one speaker may be arranged so that the microphone is in close proximity to a user s mouth and the speaker is in close proximity to a user s ear when the user holds the smartphone in a manner for conversing using the smartphone .

The smartphone may include a front facing camera which may be located vertically above the display when the smartphone is held in a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width. The front facing camera may be located so that it may capture images of objects which are located in front of and or surrounding the front side of the smartphone .

The smartphone may include an EM radiation source . The EM radiation source may be disposed on the front side of the smartphone . In this orientation EM radiation produced by the EM radiation source may be projected onto objects which are located in front of and or surrounding the front side of the smartphone . Such EM radiation or the projection of EM radiation onto objects may be captured on images obtained by the camera .

In some examples the wireless device may be a tablet computer also referred to as a tablet an example of which is illustrated in . The tablet computer may include the same or different features and components of the smartphone as described above. The tablet computer may be generally larger than the smartphone . The tablet computer may include the components discussed above with reference to or a subset of those components. The tablet computer may include a housing which houses at least some of the components discussed above with reference to .

The tablet computer may include a display which may be a touchscreen display which acts as an input interface . The display may be disposed on the tablet computer so that the display may be viewable at a front side of the tablet computer . That is a viewable side of the display may be disposed on the front side of the tablet computer . In the example illustrated the display may be framed by the housing with use of a frame which may surround the display . The frame may be a portion of the housing which may provide a border around the display . In some examples the frame may be an active frame . That is the frame may include a touch sensitive overlay which may enable the tablet computer to detect a touch input applied to the frame thereby enabling the frame to serve as an input interface .

The tablet computer may include one or more speakers . In the example illustrated the tablet computer may include two speakers . The two speakers may be disposed on opposing sides of the display . For example when tablet computer is held in a landscape orientation such as the orientation illustrated in where its width is longer than its height one of the two speakers may be disposed on a right side of the display and another of the speakers may disposed on the left side of the display . Both speakers may be disposed on the front side of the tablet computer .

The tablet computer may include a microphone . In the example illustrated the microphone may be vertically disposed below the display when the tablet computer is held in the landscape orientation. The microphone may be located in other locations in other examples.

The tablet computer may include a front facing camera which may be located vertically above the display when the tablet computer is held in a landscape orientation. The front facing camera may be located so that it may capture images of objects which are located in front of and or surrounding the front side of the tablet computer .

The tablet computer may include an EM radiation source . The EM radiation source may be disposed on the front side of the tablet computer . In this orientation EM radiation produced by the EM radiation source may be projected onto objects which are located in front of and or surrounding the front side of the tablet computer . Such EM radiation or the projection of EM radiation onto objects may be captured on images obtained by the camera .

Although certain example wireless devices have been described any suitable wireless communication device or terminal may be part of the methods and devices described herein. Although the description of the architecture relates to a specific example where the wireless network or WLAN is an IEEE 802.11 based network different environments may be applicable as well. The wireless network may be for example a WiMAX based network i.e. IEEE 802.16 or an Ultra WideBand UWB based network i.e. IEEE 802.15 among others.

The device may be any suitable computing device such as the example device of . The device may be connected to multiple networks such as the enterprise network and the other networks . The enterprise network is a network associated with an enterprise. The enterprise network can include a wireless network a virtual private network a wired network or any suitable network. The enterprise can be a corporate or business entity a government body a non profit institution or any other organization. The enterprise may be the device owner . The enterprise may also lease the device or may hire contractors or agents who are responsible for maintaining configuring controlling or managing the device . The other networks can include any suitable networks that are accessible by a user. For example the other networks can include a public network that the user has an account for a private network an ad hoc network or another type of network. In some cases the other networks include a cellular data network. In some cases the other networks include a user s home network.

The networks and facilitate communication with the device . Either of the networks and may communicate for example Internet Protocol IP packets Frame Relay frames Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM cells voice video data and other suitable information between network addresses. In addition while the enterprise network and the other networks are each illustrated as a single network each network may include multiple networks and may provide access to additional networks. In short the enterprise network and the other networks may include any suitable network configured to communicate with the device .

As shown in operations of the device may be separated or otherwise separately governed by one or more perimeters such as three example perimeters and individually and collectively referred to as perimeter s .

A perimeter may refer to a logical separation of computing resources such that transferring data between perimeters and accessing resources of other perimeter can be controlled. Resources may include applications file systems network access or other computer resources. A policy may define what specific external resources a resource in a perimeter may access. In operation a user may be provided with a seamless experience when accessing resources of different perimeters to the extent that the user may not be aware that he has crossed between different perimeters .

Each perimeter may be associated with respective resources including for example data one or more network access resources one or more applications one or more configuration files and or one or more perimeter policies . A perimeter may be used to separate its associated data network access resource s application s configuration file s and or perimeter policy ies from the data network access resource s application s configuration file s and or perimeter policy ies associated with another perimeter and or any non perimetered data resource s application s configuration file s and or policy ies on the device . Data may be collectively referred to as data network access resources may be collectively referred to as network access resource s applications may be collectively referred to as application s configuration files may be collectively referred to as configuration file s and perimeter policies may be collectively referred to as perimeter policy ies . A perimeter may be associated with a subset of the example resources described above or a perimeter may include additional or different resources.

The example perimeters can logically separate resource s e.g. application s data network access resource s and or configuration file s among others such that resources in a given perimeter e.g. perimeter can in various examples be prevented from accessing resources included in a different perimeter e.g. perimeter . For example the perimeters may prevent personal resources in one perimeter from accessing corporate resources in another perimeter or vice versa. In some cases an enterprise may define a secured corporate perimeter on a device without interfering with the user s personal experience e.g. operations within a private personal perimeter on the same device . In some examples the perimeters may also permit cross perimeter access to resources. Access to perimeter resources may be controlled by defining assigning or otherwise associating a perimeter policy to each perimeter .

A perimeter may include password protection encryption and other process for controlling access to resources assigned to the perimeter . A perimeter and its associated resources may be defined by the device owner a user an administrator or others. In some examples the perimeter may be a personal perimeter created for the user and managed by the user . In some examples the perimeter may be an enterprise perimeter created by an administrator for an enterprise and may be managed by a remote management server. In addition a given perimeter may be accessed by the device owner a user an administrator any suitable combination. In some implementations each perimeter may be associated with a single user and at least some users may access multiple device perimeters. For example a first user may access resources within both the perimeter and the perimeter and a second user may have access to only one perimeter

In various examples one or more individual perimeters may be added deleted or modified e.g. by any of the user the device owner and the administrator . For example an organization associated with the enterprise network can send the device instructions defining one or more resources e.g. applications policies configurations among others for a new perimeter . In another example an administrator may assign one or more policies for a perimeter and or initiate perimeter updates. In some examples the administrator may remotely e.g. through the enterprise network lock and or wipe one or more resources of a perimeter .

A perimeter policy may be implemented in any suitable format using any appropriate information. A perimeter policy of a given perimeter may define what external resources e.g. in another perimeter can be accessed by internal application s running in the perimeter and or what resources internal to the perimeter can be accessed by external application s e.g. application s of another perimeter . For example a given perimeter s perimeter policy may identify other perimeter s that are accessible internal resource s that are not accessible to other perimeter s or both. A perimeter policy may also identify any user s that can or cannot access specified resources in the perimeter e.g. a corporate administrator may not be permitted to access data in a user s personal perimeter . In some examples the policies of two perimeters may define whether cross perimeter access to resources is granted or if there is a conflict the strictest policy can be applied. For example where the first perimeter is an enterprise perimeter and the second perimeter is a personal perimeter both sets of policies and may be used to determine whether the personal applications can access the enterprise network . If the policies conflict then access may be granted according to the strictest policy 

Data can include any suitable information. The device can store various objects including files classes frameworks backup data business objects jobs web pages web page templates database tables repositories storing business and or dynamic information and any other appropriate information including any parameters variables algorithms instructions rules constraints or references thereto. Data may include information that is associated with an application a network a user and other information.

The network access resources can include any suitable parameters variables policies algorithms instructions settings or rules for granting access to networks. For example the network access resources may include or identify firewall policies for accessing the enterprise network . As another example the network access resources may include or identify account data for accessing one or more of the other networks . In some implementations network access resources include or otherwise identify one or more of the following a username a password a security token a Virtual Private Network VPN configuration firewall policies a communication protocol encryption key certificate or others.

The applications can include any suitable program module script process or other object that can execute change delete generate or process information. For example applications can be implemented as Enterprise Java Beans EJBs . Design time components may have the ability to generate run time implementations into different platforms such as J2EE Java 2 Platform Enterprise Edition ABAP Advanced Business Application Programming objects or Microsoft s .NET. Further while illustrated as internal to the device one or more processes associated with the applications may be stored referenced or executed remotely. For example a portion of the applications may be an interface to a web service that is remotely executed. Moreover the applications may be a child or sub module of another software module not illustrated .

The configuration files can include any suitable parameters variables policies algorithms instructions settings or rules for configuring software of the device . For example the configuration files may include a table that identifies settings for one or more applications . In some implementations the configuration files identify initial settings for one or more applications and for other types of applications such as operating system settings. The configuration files may be written in any suitable format such as for example ASCII and line oriented among others

The policies may include any parameters variables policies algorithms instructions settings or rules for enabling or preventing cross perimeter access. For example the policies may identify a resource external to the perimeter that is accessible by a resource inside the perimeter . A policy of a given perimeter may include or otherwise identify the accessibility of the perimeter generally the accessibility of specific resource in the perimeter the ability of resources in the perimeter to access other perimeters and other accessibility information. A policy may specify accessibility by user action type time period or otherwise. In some implementations a policy may identify specific resources of a perimeter that are accessible to external resources. For example the policies for the perimeter may indicate that a specific application in another perimeter may or may not access the data or resources in the first perimeter . As another example the policies for the perimeter may indicate that any of the applications in the other perimeters or may or may not access the data or resources in the first perimeter

In some implementations a policy may define or otherwise identify a process for user authentication. For example the policies may identify the type and content of user authentication e.g. password strength lifecycle to apply to a cross perimeter request. When a user requests access to multiple perimeters the request may be evaluated by the policies of both perimeters. In various examples if both policies grant access then the cross perimeter request may be granted. The policies may identify or include information to determine which network access resources can be used by an external resource in a different perimeter.

An administrator of a perimeter may determine which resources of the perimeter can be accessed by other perimeters. For example a personal perimeter can be managed by the device user and an enterprise perimeter can be managed by a corporate administrator. The user s personal applications in the personal perimeter can use network resources in the personal perimeter. The user can also choose whether the personal applications can use an enterprise network. For example due to privacy concerns a user may not want his or her web browsing information to traverse a corporate network.

In various examples an enterprise administrator can set rules on what perimeters at a macro level or what applications at a micro level can use the enterprise networks. For example due to security concerns an enterprise administrator may not want a user installed application malware or otherwise to be able to access on enterprise network resources. But the administrator may trust certain applications e.g. applications provided by a particular software provider or applications having certain security features and allow those applications to access the enterprise network.

A single device may be configured to allow concurrent use for both personal and work purposes while keeping personal and work traffic separate. Such use can be provided in a convenient manner that requires no user intervention after the initial setup. In some implementations users can access the Internet through non corporate networks for personal use without being subject to restrictions imposed by their employer and without having their traffic subject to being monitored or scrutinized by their employer. Users may also access the Internet or other network resources through corporate networks for work purposes. The device may be configured to ensure enterprise control over the work traffic and the user can be given control over whether personal traffic is allowed to flow on corporate networks.

A user control can permit the user to either allow or disallow the user s personal traffic on the corporate network. In cases where an employer has decided to allow personal traffic to flow on corporate networks the user may wish to avoid those networks so that their personal traffic is not subject to employer restrictions or employer inspection. For example an employer may restrict access to particular websites or employees may fear that their employer will scrutinize the websites they visit. As such personal traffic can be segregated from work traffic on the device and the user can choose whether personal traffic can be sent over the corporate network. In some cases personal traffic is sent over a personal network while corporate traffic is sent over a corporate network. This solution can provide added convenience and privacy for the user and greater flexibility on devices that are used for both business and personal purposes.

In various examples each network is associated with one or more perimeters. For example the perimeter can be an enterprise perimeter and the network access resources can provide access to the enterprise network the perimeter can be a personal perimeter and the network access resources can provide access to the other networks . As such all of the applications in the first perimeter can access the enterprise network resources and all of the applications in the second perimeter can access the other network resources.

Aspects of the present disclosure including systems and or methods according to the present disclosure may provide a way to set the security type of the device in a way that may not be easily changed also referred to as a semi permanent setting . For example the security type may be hard coded in a tamper proof non volatile memory of the device for example as a one byte security type byte in the non volatile random access memory NVRAM of the device . The security type may be set at the manufacturer prior to initial use of the device or may be set at the first use of the device e.g. at first registration of the device onto a network . The security type byte may be later changed or reset only by authorized personnel and or only with direct access to the NVRAM for example at a manufacturer or an enterprise repair facility or according to authorized procedures e.g. at initial registration for example as described below .

In the present disclosure the security type of a device may relate to permission granted to different entities to allow incursion into and or control of various aspects e.g. different perimeter resources of the device . Different security types may allow for some devices to be more secure at the expense of the user s privacy while other devices may be more private at the expense of device security for example.

For example a device with a corporate liable security type also referred to as a corporate liable device may be subjected to some implementation of one or more security policies e.g. as set by a corporate administrator which policy ies may impact resources associated with a personal perimeter or otherwise designated as personal defined in the device . A device with a personal liable security type also referred to as a personal liable device may not be subjected to any security policy ies that may impact resources associated with the personal perimeter or otherwise designated as personal . A device with a regulated security type also referred to a regulated device may be subjected to unlimited implementation of security policy ies .

A regulated device may be desirable for use in regulated environments such as government and financial institutions. A regulated device may be a special subset of corporate liable devices. There may be different purchase prices and or requirements for obtaining a regulated device.

Security policies that impact resources associated with the personal perimeter of a device may include policies that control a user s access to the device and or resources e.g. one or more applications and or files stored on the device and or may compromise the user s privacy on the device e.g. may allow a corporate administrator to monitor activity on the device without the user s knowledge particularly with respect to resources designated as personal e.g. resources associated with the personal perimeter . Such security policies that intrude on a user s personal perimeter may be considered intrusive policies.

Examples of security policies and how devices with different security types may be subject to such policies are shown in the table below 

A whole device password security policy may require access to all resources of the device including both resources designated as personal as well as other resources to be password protected. A whole device encryption security policy may require that all communications to and from the device including communications to and from resources designated as personal be securely encrypted e.g. at least over an enterprise network . A whole device wipe security policy may allow all memory e.g. including flash memory NVRAM ROM and any other memory of the device to be remotely erased e.g. by an administrator . A work access to personal data security policy may allow a corporate administrator access to resources associated with a personal perimeter e.g. with or without the user s permission . An email audit trail allowed security policy may require all email communications to and from the device to be recorded and stored e.g. in an internal or external memory of the device or on a remote server as an audit trail. A messaging audit trail allowed security policy may require all messaging communications e.g. including instant messaging SMS messaging and text messaging communications to and from the device to be recorded and stored e.g. in an internal or external memory of the device or on a remote server as an audit trail.

With respect to creation of email or messaging audit trails any emails instant messages or other communications generated from within a personal perimeter e.g. generated by an application associated with a personal perimeter and sent through a public network may not be captured automatically by the enterprise network . In such cases the email audit trail allowed and messaging audit trail allowed security policies may require the device to automatically make a copy of such communications and store the audit trail in a memory of the device . This audit trail may be automatically uploaded to an enterprise data server such as at the next instance the device accesses the enterprise network at regular intervals and or in response to a request from the data server. Appropriate communication applications within the device and or within the data server may provide one or more functions for carrying this out. For communications that are administrated through a communication server such as in the case of messaging communications audit trails may be created on the device and or in communication server s of the network however creating such records on the device may be more secure and or simple. The creation of such audit trails may be done to satisfy legal requirements.

In the example illustrated in the above table none of the security policies may apply to personal liable devices some of the security policies may apply to corporate liable devices and all of the security policies may apply to regulated devices.

The security policies may be applied to the device in addition to and independently of any perimeter policies . For example a personal liable device used in a corporate environment may be limited in its access of an enterprise network due to a perimeter policy even if the corporate security policy ies do not apply to the personal liable device. However the personal liable device may through application s associated with the personal perimeter access a public network . In some examples even for regulated devices the device may still maintain a personal perimeter with full control over downloading of applications and allowing internet browsing in privacy if the device is not using an enterprise network e.g. an enterprise virtual private network VPN .

The security type byte may be hard coded in a non volatile memory such as the NVRAM of the device and may be protected from tampering e.g. may not be changeable by any application executed by the processor of the device . For example the security type byte may reside in the operating system and the operating system may prevent unauthorized changing of the security type byte . The security type of the device may be changed only upon initial registration of the device e.g. as described further below at the manufacturer or at a repair facility e.g. using specialized authorized software for example.

For example in order to change the security type byte specialized software e.g. available only to the manufacturer may be required to first enable changing of the security type byte e.g. by setting a permission field or flag such as setting a Security type changeable field to a Yes value or setting a Device class permanent field to a No value in some examples the factory setting of the device may set such flags or fields to a value that enables changing of the security type byte . This may allow other specialized software e.g. at the manufacturer repair facility or other authorized entity to change the value of the security type byte . This may protect the security type byte from being directly changed by corporations administrators or other applications. A corporation may be restricted to being able to change the security type byte value from a personal liable setting which may be the factory default to a corporate liable value by establishing a connection between the device and an enterprise server for example as described further below.

For example the security type byte may be set with a value to designate the device to be personal liable corporate liable or regulated as follows 

The security type byte may be set to designate a personal liable security type by default at the manufacturer e.g. the security type is 0 by default .

At the device determines whether a received security policy e.g. received from an administrator via the network should be in effect e.g. applied to personal resources . The security policy may govern behavior of one or more resources designated as personal e.g. one or more resources associated with the personal perimeter . This determination may be based on the security type of the device . The security type of the device may be determined e.g. by the device itself based on the value of the security type byte . For example the processor may query or otherwise determine the value of the security type byte e.g. via a query function of the operating system . may take place in response to or after the device receives a new or updated security policy e.g. via the network .

At the security type is determined to indicate that the received security policy should not be applied. The policy is accordingly not applied. For example where the security type is determined to be personal liable e.g. the security type byte has a value of 0 this may indicate that a received security policy that governs behavior of personal resource s e.g. resource s associated with the personal perimeter should not be applied. In another example where the security type is determined to be corporate liable e.g. the security type byte has a value of 1 this may indicate that the particular received security policy governing behavior of personal resource s e.g. an audit trail creation policy should not be applied even though other security policies may be applied.

A signal may be generated e.g. by the processor to indicate that the received security policy was not applied. For example an output may be generated on the display to inform the user that the security policy has been rejected e.g. including identification of the particular security policy rejected . Additionally or in alternative a signal may be transmitted to the administrator e.g. via the network to inform the administrator that the security policy has been rejected e.g. including identification of the particular security policy rejected and or the device that rejected the policy .

In some examples the policy may not be applied to resource s designated as personal but may still be applied to other resource s not designated as personal. For example if the received security policy is a whole device wipe policy the device may determine that this policy should not be applied to personal resource s such that personal resource s are not erased however this policy may be applied to other resource s such that resource s not designated as personal e.g. resource s associated with a corporate perimeter or not associated with any perimeter may be erased.

At the security type is determined to indicate that the received security policy should be applied. The policy is accordingly applied. For example where the security type is determined to be corporate liable e.g. the security type byte has a value of 1 this may indicate that a particular received security policy that governs behavior of personal resource s e.g. resource s associated with the personal perimeter should be applied even though other security policies may not be applied. In another example where the security type is determined to be regulated e.g. the security type byte has a value of 2 this may indicate that all received security policies governing behavior of personal resource s e.g. an audit trail creation policy should be applied.

A signal may be generated e.g. by the processor to indicate that the received security policy was applied. For example an output may be generated on the display to inform the user that the security policy has been applied e.g. including identification of the particular security policy applied . Additionally or in alternative a signal may be transmitted to the administrator e.g. via the network to inform the administrator that the security policy has been applied e.g. including identification of the particular security policy applied and or the device the policy was applied to .

As explained above the security type of the device may be settable only under particular controlled scenarios such as by the manufacturer e.g. at initial manufacture or refurbishing of the device or at a repair facility e.g. at refurbishing of the device using specialized software able to directly access and change the security type byte or at initial registration of the device .

At a request for registration of the device on the network may be received e.g. by the server which may be an enterprise server .

For example the security type of the device may be changeable only at a first time registration and it may be determined that a received request for registration of the device on the network is a request for a first time registration of the device . A first time registration may be the first time the device attempts to register on the network after the device is manufactured refurbished or upgraded e.g. with a new operating system to support device type designation. A server may determine that the received request is a request for first time registration by determining that the device e.g. as identified by a unique device identifier does not appear in a registration list stored by the server for example. Such a determination may be made to ensure that the security type of the device is only changed at an initial registration.

In some examples the server may not make any determination whether the request for registration is a first time registration request. Instead the server may query the device e.g. query a permission flag or field stored on the device such as a Security type changeable field to determine whether the security type of the device may be changed.

In some examples if is it determined that the security type of the device is not changeable e.g. the registration request is not a first time registration request or that a permission field or flag in the device has been set to indicate that the security type is not changeable the method may end.

In some examples the server may not make any determination whether or not the security type is changeable e.g. is omitted . Instead the server may simply attempt to change the security type of the device regardless and the device itself may determine whether such a change should be allowed e.g. as described in below .

At a security type of the device is determined for example using the received request and or the type of the network . For example where the network is an enterprise network the server may determine that the registration request has been received on an enterprise network and may determine that the security type should indicate that one or more security policies governing personal resource s may be applied to the device e.g. the security type may be corporate liable .

In some examples where the network is a public network the server may determined that the registration request has been received on a public network and may determine that the security type should indicate that no security policies governing personal resource s may be applied to the device e.g. the security type may be personal liable . In other examples where the network is a public network there may be no determination made for the security type and the device may remain with its default security type e.g. a default security type of personal liable .

In some examples information contained in the registration request e.g. an upgrade key such as a regulated upgrade key may also be used to determine the security type of the device . For example where the registration request includes an upgrade key e.g. which may be purchased by the user and provided by the manufacturer the server may determine that the security type should indicate that all security policies governing personal resource s may be applied to the device e.g. the security type may be regulated . An upgrade key may be an enterprise specific regulated upgrade key such as a software key issued e.g. from a manufacturer to a corporation for use in the corporation s own enterprise servers. Such keys may be purchased by the corporation and may be only issued to authorized parties.

At instructions may be transmitted e.g. by the server to the device to cause the determined security type to be hard coded in a non volatile memory e.g. in the security type byte of the NVRAM of the device . For example the instructions may be specialized code that may cause the operating system of the device to change the security type byte to a value indicating the new security type. This may be a one time instruction e.g. at least until the device is refurbished .

In some examples such as where the server does not make any determination whether the security type of the device is changeable the instructions to change the security type byte may be transmitted each time the device requests registration with the server e.g. even if it is not a first time registration of the device . In such cases the device may execute instructions to prevent improper changing of its security type. For example upon receiving instructions e.g. from a server to change the value of the security type byte the device may query a Security type changeable field to determine whether the security type byte should be changed. If the Security type changeable field has a value of Yes this may indicate that the security type byte may be changed and the device may implement the instructions from the server to change the security type byte . The Security type changeable field may be then changed to a value of No to prevent further changes to the security type byte . If the Security type changeable field has a value of No this may indicate that the security type byte may not be changed and the device may not implement the instructions from the server.

In some examples instructions to change the security type to regulated may be implemented for corporate liable devices even where the Security type changeable field has a value of No . That is for corporate liable devices instructions to upgrade the security type to a regulated device may override any permission fields or flags preventing a security type change. However such override may not be permitted for personal liable devices.

In some examples the device may generate an output e.g. a notification on its display indicating to the user the new security type of the device.

Optionally at the device may transmit signals to the server to indicate to the server that the security type of the device has been changed e.g. where the instructions from the server have been implemented or that the security type of the device has not been changed e.g. where the instructions from the server have been rejected .

After changing its security type the device may then set a permission field or flag e.g. a Security type changeable field or Device class permanent flag to indicate that further changes to its security type is not permitted.

Where the security type of the device has been changed to a higher security e.g. to a corporate liable device class or a regulated device class the server may store information about the device e.g. a unique device identifier in a list maintained by the server. For example the server may maintain a list of all regulated devices in order to better track and or manage regulated devices.

In some examples in order for a device to be properly set as a corporate liable device it may be necessary to ensure that the initial registration of the device take place over the enterprise network . Similarly in order for a device to retain its default setting as a personal liable device it may be necessary to ensure that the initial registration of the device takes place over a public network. The security type of the device may thus be determined by which network the device initially registers with.

The method may be implemented with little or no changes to conventional registration software of the server. Where an upgrade key is included in the registration request the server may be provided with additional software to identify such information. The server may also include a database for storing identification of devices of a certain security type in particular regulated devices and or may include software for specialized billing based on the security type in particular specialized billing for regulated devices .

At the device may receive instructions e.g. from a server of the network such as an enterprise server of the enterprise network to change the security type of the device .

At the device may determine whether the security type is changeable. This determination may be based on the security type of the device a permission flag of the device and or the instructed security type change. For example the device may query a permission field or flag e.g. a Security type changeable field or Device class permanent which may be maintained by the operating system to determine whether the security type is changeable. In addition the device may query its own security type e.g. by querying the value of the security type byte .

At if it has been determined that the security type is changeable e.g. Security type changeable field has a value of Yes or Device class permanent flag has a value of No or the device is instructed to change to regulated security type and the device is a corporate liable device the security type of the device may be changed in accordance with the received instructions e.g. the security type byte value may be set in accordance with the received instructions .

Optionally at the device may transmit signals e.g. to the server and or for output to a user via one or more output devices to indicate that the security type has been changed and optionally what the new security type is .

At if it has been determined that the security type is not changeable e.g. Security type changeable field has a value of No or Device class permanent flag has a value of Yes the security type of the device may not be changed e.g. the security type byte value may remain unchanged .

Optionally at the device may transmit signals e.g. to the server and or for output to a user via one or more output devices to indicate that the security type has not been changed and optionally what the unchanged security type is .

The factory default setting of the device may set the security type byte to indicate a personal liable device e.g. security type byte may have a value of 0 and may set the Security type changeable field to indicate that the security type is changeable e.g. Security type changeable field may have a value of Yes or similarly a Device class permanent flag may be set to No .

Upon initial registration of the device with the network via a public server the Security type changeable field may be set to No or similarly a Device class permanent flag may be set to Yes while the security type may be unchanged. The device may thus be set to be personal liable and any subsequent attempt to change the security type of the device may be rejected by the device . This may prevent a personal liable device from erroneous or unauthorized attempts to convert the device to a corporate liable or regulated device for example.

Alternatively the device may instead initially register with an enterprise network via an enterprise server. Since the device still has a Security type changeable value of Yes that is the factory settings have not yet been changed it may be possible for the enterprise server to change the security type of the device . The security type of the device may be set to corporate liable or regulated e.g. according to the method described above . The device may then set the Security type changeable field to a value of No .

In some examples instructions to change the security type of the device to regulated may override the Security type changeable field only where the device has a security type of corporate liable. For example even where the Security type changeable field has a value of No a corporate liable device may still be upgraded to a regulated device. In other examples when the security type of the device is set to corporate liable the Security type changeable field may remain with a value of Yes to enable further upgrade to a regulated device.

The following table illustrates example scenarios of how the security type of the device may be set by the server 

In some examples the restrictions illustrated in the table above may all be overridden only by an authorized entity such as the manufacturer or a repair facility e.g. using specialized software and or using specialized code .

The same device model e.g. using a single part number may be used for devices with different security types. An upgrade to a more secure device e.g. a regulated device may be available at request e.g. with payment of an upgrade charge and only when needed. Thus inventory management and associated costs may be decreased. This may also allow for more flexibility in inventory. For example devices may be set to be personal liable corporate liable or regulated relatively quickly and easily in response to market needs. Pricing for different security types may also be adjusted e.g. based on purchased volume of a certain security type 

A corporate liable device may be upgraded to a regulated device any time for example by including the regulated upgrade key in the registration procedure e.g. as described above . This may provide a relatively simple upgrade process to enable corporations to upgrade corporate liable devices to regulated devices without having to recall currently used devices and reissue new devices to its employees.

A database of all devices of a particular security type e.g. all regulated devices may be maintained and updated as needed. This may help to increase the security and or traceability of such devices.

A corporate liable or regulated device may be reset back to a personal liable device e.g. the default setting when a device is returned to the manufacturer or to a repair facility e.g. for refurbishing . This resetting may include deregistering the device from the infrastructure. Thus after refurbishing the next registration of the device on a network will be considered as an initial registration of the device. After resetting the device may be re circulated into the market as a new device and may be re registered with a security type for example as described above.

While the present disclosure refers to certain security types governing applicability of certain security policies these are only illustrative. The specified security types may govern applicability of security policies in a different way and or may govern applicability of different security policies. There may be different security types designated. Although the security type has been described as being hard coded in a single byte of the non volatile memory the security type may be hard coded in other ways provided the security type is protected from tampering e.g. unchangeable using an application executed by the device itself .

The embodiments of the present disclosure described above are intended to be examples only. Alterations modifications and variations to the disclosure may be made without departing from the intended scope of the present disclosure. In particular selected features from one or more of the above described embodiments may be combined to create alternative embodiments not explicitly described. All values and sub ranges within disclosed ranges are also disclosed. The subject matter described herein intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology. All references mentioned are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

