---

title: Method and system for querying, monitoring and controlling a wireless sensor network using instant messaging system
abstract: A method for communicating with one or more sensor nodes in a Wireless Sensor Network (WSN) over a network is disclosed. The method includes initiating communication with the sensor nodes by sending messages to the server application using the instant messaging system. The server application formats the received messages and communicates to the sensor nodes and in turn also receives responses from the sensor nodes and communicates them back to the IM client. The method also includes steps for enabling a WSN messaging client to converse with an instant messaging client over the network during communication with the one or more sensor nodes in the WSN. The method further includes identifying the IM client the user has employed for communication and the corresponding IM protocol. Also, the method includes the step of configuring the WSN messaging client with the same IM protocol to enable communication.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08886736&OS=08886736&RS=08886736
owner: Infosys Limited
number: 08886736
owner_city: 
owner_country: IN
publication_date: 20120405
---
The present application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 813 674 filed Jun. 11 2010 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention generally relates to wireless sensor networks and particularly to a method and system for communicating with a plurality of sensor nodes using one or more instant messengers over a network.

In the present hectic schedule remote monitoring of ambience in a given area is gaining importance as it may not be possible and feasible to monitor the ambience by being physically present in the given area at any point of time. To address such issues in the prior art a Wireless Sensor Network WSN that may be installed in the environment where the ambience needs to be monitored was introduced. The WSN is a collection of networked tiny electronic devices herein also referred to as sensor nodes that are capable of sensing processing and communication information. These sensor nodes generally read ambience information from the surrounding environment and convert the information into one or more data packet s . These data packets are processed and may then be transmitted to users via one or more base stations using a wireless network.

A typical WSN may be monitored through various communication channels that include a standalone desktop application a web based application or a mobile application.

In case of a standalone desktop application specialized software is used to visualize and monitor the sensor nodes in the WSN from the base station. Users may send commands using this software to tune the behavior of the sensor nodes to some extent. However it requires the user to have expertise in using the specialized software.

In case of a web based application commands that are sent by the users to the application are routed to the sensor nodes in the WSN via the base station. However this requires the user to authenticate the web based application specifically to send commands to the sensor nodes. Further a specific web based application needs to be customized for monitoring the sensor nodes.

In case of a mobile application users may send the query to the WSN to know the status of sensor nodes in the network. Though mobile applications devices have an interface to communicate with the WSN they cannot be used to perform complex operations such as sending a new code to the sensor nodes in the network.

Collectively these applications that are being used to control or monitor the sensors nodes in the WSN have one or more drawbacks. In the standard controller application the desktop software installed on a particular machine needs to be accessed for controlling. The user needs to have domain knowledge in order to use the desktop application. The web based applications have overcome this disadvantage by allowing users to access the application from anywhere but restrict the users to desktops or mobiles. Similarly the interface through mobile devices may provide access to WSN from anywhere. Though mobile devices have provided interface to communicate with WSN they may not be used to perform complex operations like sending new code to the sensors nodes.

Thus all the techniques mentioned above are associated with one or more problems and hence there is a need for a new communication means which will allow the users to monitor or control the WSN without the need to install any software other than instant messenger on their desktop computers or mobile devices. Further the user should not have to customize the web application to communicate with the WSN using the communication means. Finally the communication means should not require the user to learn or have expertise in using specialized software for communicating with the WSN.

A method to communicate with one or more sensor nodes in a Wireless Sensor Network WSN over a network is disclosed. Also a method for enabling a WSN messaging client to converse with an instant messaging client over a network during communication with one or more sensor nodes in the WSN is disclosed. Such a method may help in establishing communication between the sensor nodes and a user to either get live updates of data monitored by the sensor nodes or for controlling the sensor nodes. Also the method may help in querying the sensor nodes to ascertain the status of the sensor nodes.

In one embodiment of the present technique the method for communicating with one or more sensors in the WSN over the network includes the step of initiating communication with a server application by sending a message from an instant messaging client. The server entity may include at least one of a WSN messaging client and a WSN server. The method further includes the step of encoding the message received by the server application by using the WSN messaging client. The encoded message is sent to the one or more sensor nodes using the WSN server.

Further the method includes the step of receiving an encoded response from the sensor nodes through the WSN server. The encoded response is decoded by the WSN messaging client before sending the decoded message to the instant messaging client.

In one embodiment of the present technique the WSN messaging client and the WSN server may be a single entity. In another embodiment of the present embodiment the WSN server and the WSN messaging client are separate entities. In one embodiment of the present technique the message sent from the instant messaging client to the WSN messaging client and vice versa uses at least one of a plurality of instant messaging protocols.

In one embodiment of the present technique the method to enable the WSN messaging client to converse with the instant messaging client over the network includes the step of identifying at least one of the plurality of instant messaging clients that the user is using for communication by sending messages and determining corresponding instant messaging protocols used by the identified instant messaging client. The method further includes the step of configuring the WSN messaging client to operate with at least one of the determined instant messaging protocol. Finally the method includes adding a messaging buddy with its unique identifier name in one or more instant messaging clients to facilitate communication with one or more sensor nodes in the WSN over the network through the WSN messaging client.

The method additionally includes the step of creating the messaging buddy for each of the configured WSN messaging clients with a unique identifier name by checking the availability of the unique identifier name with at least one of the WSN messaging client and the instant messaging client.

In one embodiment of the present technique the network may be an Internet and a local area network LAN .

The following description is full and informative description of the best method and system presently contemplated for carrying out the present invention which is known to the inventors at the time of filing the patent application. Of course many modifications and adaptations will be apparent to those skilled in the relevant arts in view of the following description in view of the accompanying drawings and the appended claims. While the system and method described herein are provided with a certain degree of specificity the present technique may be implemented with either greater or lesser specificity depending on the needs of the user. Further some of the features of the present technique may be used to advantage without the corresponding use of other features described in the following paragraphs. As such the present description should be considered as merely illustrative of the principles of the present technique and not in limitation thereof since the present technique is defined solely by the claims.

The present invention relates to a method and system for facilitating communication with one or more sensor nodes in a Wireless Sensor Network WSN over a network. The method also details an approach for enabling a WSN messaging client to converse with an instant messaging client over a network during communication with one or more sensor nodes in the WSN. The inventive technique to be detailed in the subsequent sections to follow also explains numerous variations to implement the inventive steps of the present technique in terms of one or more embodiments.

The following description is presented to enable a person of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the invention and is provided in the context of the requirement for obtaining a patent. The present description is the best presently contemplated method for carrying out the present invention. Various modifications to the preferred embodiment will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles of the present invention may be applied to other embodiments and some features of the present invention may be used without the corresponding use of other features. Accordingly the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiment shown but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features described herein.

Referring to the figures is an exemplary environment illustrating communication of instant messaging clients with a Wireless Sensor Network WSN enabled edifice over a network according to one embodiment of the present technique. In one embodiment of the present technique the exemplary environment includes at least one an instant messaging client a network a server application and a WSN enabled edifice . In one embodiment of the present technique the exemplary environment may be set up for monitoring the condition of the edifice i.e. home in this case which is WSN enabled using one or more instant messaging clients . In another embodiment of the present technique the exemplary environment may be a house and the owner is in an office and wants to monitor his her house hold appliances whether they are switched on or off. Else the owner may want to check whether some one has intruded into his her house.

In one embodiment of the present technique the instant messaging clients may include at least one of an enterprise instant messaging client and a public instant messaging client not numbered . The public instant messaging client may include at least one of an AOL client a Google Talk client a Skype client a Yahoo client and a MSN client . The enterprise messaging client may include at least one of an IBM Lotus Sametime client a Microsoft Office Communicator client and an Oracle Beehive client. The scope of the invention should not be restricted in light of the IM clients depicted hereby.

In one embodiment of the present technique the network may include Internet or a Local Area Network LAN . In one embodiment of the present technique the server application may allow users not shown to send messages using instant messaging client to the deployed WSN. The server application also allows extraction of meaningful messages sent by a sensor node within the WSN and communicates it to the user through the instant messaging herein also referred to as IM client . The server application may also allow the users to control sensor nodes and present conditional information of the sensor nodes. The server application can handle incoming messages from different IM clients and may support multiple IM protocols to communicate with the WSN enabled edifice .

In one embodiment of the present technique the WSN enabled edifice may include one or more sensor nodes not shown within it. These sensor nodes may be used to monitor the situation of the edifice where it is installed. The sensor nodes may take command for controlling home appliances with one or more messages from the IM client i.e. Google Talk Yahoo etc .

In one embodiment of the present technique the communication with the sensor nodes using the IM client over the network is performed using at least one of a mobile application a desktop application a laptop application and a web application.

Referring to the figures is a flow diagram depicting a method of communicating with one or more sensor nodes in a Wireless Sensor Network WSN over a network according to one embodiment of the present technique.

In one embodiment of the present technique the method comprises 1 initiating communication with a server application by sending a message from an instant messaging client block 2 encoding the message received from the instant messaging client block 3 sending the encoded message to one or more sensor nodes in the WSN by the server application block 4 receiving a response from the one or more sensor nodes in the WSN by the server application block 5 decoding the response received from the one or more sensor nodes by the WSN server application block and 6 sending the decoded response to the instant messaging client block . Each of the steps will be explained in detail in the subsequent sections.

The method of communication with one or more sensor nodes in a Wireless Sensor Network WSN over a network may begin with a step of initiating communication with a sever application by sending a message from an IM client as represented by block . In step the user may initiate communication with the one or more sensor nodes through the IM client which the user has employed for communication. The messages are sent across the network. The network may be an Internet or a Local Area Network herein also referred to as LAN . The messages which were sent from the IM client are received by the server application and are processed before being forwarded to the sensor nodes as represented by block . In one embodiment of the present technique the server application may be a gateway or a base station. In step the message is encoded in a format essential for the sensor nodes to interpret. The process of encoding the messages is performed by a WSN client application. In one embodiment of the present technique the WSN client application may be a part of the server application or may be a discrete module.

In step the encoded message is forwarded to the one or more sensor nodes in the WSN by the server application. The process of sending the encoded message to the sensor nodes may be performed by a WSN server. In one embodiment of the present technique the WSN server may be a part of the server application or may be a discrete module.

The message sent from the user through the IM client to the one or more sensor nodes may include at least one of a request message a command message and a query message. In one embodiment of the present technique the request message may be receive the monitored data by one or more sensors. The monitored data may include checking status of the electric application or main door or etc. Similarly the command message may include controlling the activity of the sensor nodes. The process of controlling the senor nodes may include changing the condition to be monitored or threshold and so forth. The query message may include checking the health or condition of the sensor nodes which are deployed in the WSN enabled edifice for monitoring conditions.

In step the sensor nodes on receiving the encoded message may respond based on the type of the message received. In one embodiment of the present technique the response sent by the sensor nodes may be received by the server application. The WSN server may receive the response from the sensor nodes.

In step the response received from the sensor nodes is sent to the WSN messaging client for decoding so that it may be interpreted for subsequent use. The decoded message is later forwarded by the WSN messaging client to the IM client as represented by block . The forwarded message from the WSN messaging client is easily interpreted by the IM client and presented to the user.

The steps depicted in the above method allow the user to communicate with the one or more sensors in the WSN network using the IM client which are currently employed for communication with others. Thus this method does not require the user to install any software other than an instant messenger on their desktop computers or mobile devices to communicate with the WSN.

Referring to the figures is a flow diagram depicting a method for enabling the WSN messaging client to communicate with an instant messaging client over the network during communication with one or more sensor nodes in the WSN according to one embodiment of the present technique.

In one embodiment of the present technique the method comprises 1 identifying at least one of a plurality of instant messaging clients that the user is using for communication by sending messages block 2 determining one or more instant messaging protocols that are employed by the identified instant messaging client for messaging block 3 configuring the WSN messaging client to operate with at least one of the determined instant messaging protocols block 4 creating a messaging buddy for each of the configured WSN messaging clients with a unique identifier name block 5 adding the messaging buddy with its unique identifier name in one or more instant messaging clients block and 6 facilitating communication with one or more sensor nodes in the WSN over a network through the WSN messaging client block . Each of the steps will be explained in detail in the subsequent sections.

The method for enabling the WSN messaging client to communicate with an instant messaging client over the network during communication with one or more sensor nodes in the WSN may begin with a step of identifying at least one of a plurality of instant messaging clients that the user is using for communication by sending messages as represented by block . In this step the user may be queried to determine the type of IM client that they are using for communication with either family or friends or colleagues. This information may be used to configure the server application which is going to be deployed at the users edifice. The server application may include the WSN messaging client and a WSN server or both. The configuration of the server application may mean configuring the WSN messaging client. In one embodiment of the present technique the IM client may include an enterprise IM client or a public IM client. The public IM client may include any of an XMPP client a Yahoo client a Google client a Hotmail client an AOL client and a Skype client. The enterprise IM client may include at least one of an IBM Lotus Sametime client a Microsoft Office Communicator client and an Oracle Beehive client. The IM client depicted above should not be restricted in light of the scope of the inventive steps detailed as per the present technique.

In step based on the type of IM client the users are using for communication the corresponding instant messaging protocol that is employed by the identified IM client for messaging is determined. The IM protocol may include an XMPP protocol a YMSG protocol a Skype protocol an ICQ protocol and an MSN protocol.

In step the WSN messaging client is configured to operate with at least one of the determined IM protocols. This configuration is essential to bring the WSN messaging client and the IM client under the same IM protocol so that the messages that were sent to the one or more sensor nodes during communication may be received by the WSN messaging client before the messages are received by the one or more sensor nodes. In one embodiment of the present technique the WSN messaging client may be configured to operate with more than one IM protocol based on the requirement or demand of the users.

In step on completion of configuration of the WSN messaging client to operate in the detected IM protocol a messaging buddy may be created for each of the configured WSN messaging clients with a unique identifier name. The creation of the messaging buddy may be optional. The messaging buddy is an instance of the WSN messaging client. The messaging buddy represents the WSN messaging client which is configured within the server application for enabling communication with the external IM client which the user is using for communication. The messaging buddy may differ based on the WSN messaging client and the underlying protocol IM protocol on which it is configured. The existing messaging buddy with its unique name may be considered. In case a new messaging buddy is created than the buddy may have the unique name of the user choice. The unique name may also include a domain name and the domain name may be derived from the WSN setup installed at the edifice.

In one embodiment of the present technique the messaging buddy with its unique name refers to the at least one of the sensor node or a group of sensor nodes in the WSN. Thus assigning one unique identifier name to the sensor nodes or group of sensor nodes allows the users to communicate to an individual sensor node or group of sensor nodes.

In another embodiment of the present technique the existing messaging buddy with its unique identifier name may refer to the standard messaging buddy name created by a service provider of the WSN. For instance the messaging buddy may be named as a conference room in building XYZ or conference rooms in certain XYZ locations. Thus the individual sensor node or the group of nodes associated with this name is referenced by this unique identifier name of the messaging buddy which allows the users to communicate with the messaging buddy.

In step the messaging buddy with its unique identifier name is added in one or more instant messaging clients of the user. The user may add different messaging buddies in corresponding IM clients based on the IM protocol on which the WSN messaging client is configured and the IM client is operational. For example if the WSN messaging client is configured for working with XMPP protocol than the messaging buddy that is either created or selected may be added to the IM client that supports XMPP protocol such as for example Google Talk .

In step the added messaging buddy facilitates the user to communicate with one or more sensor nodes in the WSN over a network through the WSN messaging client. The user may converse with the sensor nodes just like he she is conversing with a person. The user may get to know the status of the sensor nodes or monitor the edifice where the sensor nodes are deployed or even change the control threshold set for the sensor nodes. The method of communicating with the sensor nodes has been explained in conjunction with . This facility is available to the user without the need for the user to install additional software in there desktop or laptop. The user may communicate with the one or more sensor nodes using the instant messaging client over the network using at least one of a mobile application a desktop application a laptop application and a web application.

Referring to the figures is a block diagram illustrating communication of instant messaging client with one or more sensor nodes in the WSN over a network according to one embodiment of the present technique.

In one embodiment of the present technique the block diagram illustrates a system for communicating with one or more sensor nodes in a Wireless Sensor Network WSN over a network. In one embodiment of the present technique the system may be set up for monitoring the condition of the edifice not shown which is WSN enabled using the IM client . In another embodiment of the present technique the exemplary environment may be a house or an office.

In one embodiment of the present technique the system includes at least one of the IM clients a server application and a WSN . In one embodiment of the present technique a user may initiate communication with a sensor node A G through the IM client . The user may converse with the server application using IM client through a network .

In one embodiment of the present technique the user may initiate communication with at least one of the sensor nodes A G using the IM client which the user has employed for communication.

In one embodiment of the present technique the IM client may include at least one of an XMPP client a Yahoo client a Google client a Skype client an ICQ client an MSN client an IBM Lotus Sametime client a Microsoft Office Communicator client and an Oracle Beehive client or combinations thereof. The scope of the invention should not be restricted with respect to the number of IM client mentioned above. It should be noted that other IM clients not mentioned above may also be used for communication without deviating from the scope of the present technique.

The IM client may operate using one or more IM messaging protocols. In one embodiment of the present technique the IM protocol may include at least one of an XMPP protocol a YMSG protocol a Skype protocol an ICQ protocol and an MSN protocol.

On initiation of communication the IM client may send a message to the server application over the network . The network may include at least one of Internet and a Local Area Network LAN .

In one embodiment of the present technique the server application may be a gateway or a base station to handle the communication related to the WSN. The server application may include at least one of a WSN messaging client module and a WSN server module or combinations thereof. In another embodiment of the present technique the WSN messaging client module and the WSN server module may be discrete units.

In one embodiment of the present technique the WSN messaging client may be configured using an application programming interface API . The API used for configuring the WSN messaging client may differ based on the type of the IM protocol the IM client uses. In one embodiment of the present technique a SMACK API may be used to build WSN messaging client which may be operable using the XMPP protocol. Similarly any other known APIs may be used for configuring the WSN messaging client based on the requirement of the user.

In one embodiment of the present technique on receipt of the messages the WSN messaging client encodes the same. The encoding of the message is essential to synchronize the message in a format which the sensor nodes A G may be able to interpret. The encoded messages may be forwarded to the WSN server for further communication with the sensor nodes A G.

The WSN messaging client on receipt of the response from the sensor nodes A G may decode the same. The decoding of the response is essential to synchronize the response in the format which the IM client may be able to interpret. The decoded response may be presented to the user .

In one embodiment of the present technique the WSN server may be the communicating entity which sends the encoded messages to the sensor nodes A G in the WSN . Also the WSN sever may receive the encoded response sent from the one or more sensor nodes A G in the WSN . In one embodiment of the present technique the WSN server functions like the base station or the gateway routing the message between the WSN and the server application . In one embodiment of the present technique an OpenFire API may be used for configuring the WSN server . The WSN server configured using the OpenFire API is compatible to operate with the XMPP protocol based WSN messaging client . Similarly in another embodiment of the present technique any other known API may be used to configure the WSN server depending upon the underlying protocol on which the WSN messaging client is operating. The scope of the present invention should not be restrictive based upon the description provided above.

In one embodiment of the present technique the WSN network may include a plurality of sensor nodes A G depending on the requirement of the user where the WSN is deployed. The WSN may be generally configured in the home or the office to monitor the condition.

The sensor nodes A G on receipt of the encoded message interpret the information and act accordingly either by sending the encoded response back to the WSN server or enquiring the status of the adjacent sensor nodes or controlling or changing the threshold or condition which the nodes are meant for monitoring.

In one embodiment of the present technique the IM client which the user has employed for communication is identified and upon identification of the same the IM protocol of IM client is determined for tuning the WSN messaging client so that the WSN messaging client operates using the same IM protocol. The configuration of the WSN messaging client to operate with the same IM protocol as determined in the IM client is required for providing the same platform to enable the conversation between the two.

In one embodiment of the present technique a messaging buddy may be created using the API depending on the requirement of the user. The type of the API used to create the buddy may depend on the underlying WSN messaging client used. The SMACK API may be used to create a messaging buddy if the WSN messaging client operates using XMPP protocol.

In another embodiment of the present technique the messaging buddy may be used to converse using the WSN messaging client . For instance if the messaging buddy is of Google Talk the same may be used in the WSN messaging client for communication with the IM client .

The messaging buddy may include a unique name. The unique name in turn includes a buddy name and a domain name. The buddy name may be a user name or the name of the WSN network or anything of user s choice. The domain name may be the IM client name or the WSN name. The messenger buddy with its unique name is added in the IM client before initiating the communication with the sensor nodes A G. In one embodiment of the present technique the availability of the unique name may be enquired with the WSN messaging client or the IM client .

The WSN messaging client further includes an administration module which is used for monitoring the administrating activity within the WSN. The validation module A of the administration module may be used by an owner of the WSN to provide an administrative access in the WSN. The owner herein also referred to as authorized user may need to provide the consent for adding the messaging buddy with its unique identifier name by other users in their IM. In another embodiment of the present invention the authorized user may register a number of other users those are entitled for accessing the WSN network through their IM. The process of adding the messaging buddy may include enabling the messaging buddy made available for communication with the other users through their instant messaging client.

In one embodiment of the present technique the administration module may include a controller module B for providing the service provider of the WSN with an ability to control or view or query or monitor the WSN. The controller module may also WSN service provider to check the activities of one or more sensors in the WSN.

In one embodiment of the present technique the user module C of the administration module may provide selective access restriction to other users for communication with the one or more sensor nodes in the WSN.

In one embodiment of the present technique with the detailed setup explained above the system may enable the user to communicate with the one or more sensor nodes A G using their respective IM client .

In one embodiment of the present technique the main advantage includes providing easy means to communicate with the sensor nodes using the commonly available IM clients. The users need not install any additional software other than instant messenger on their desktop computers or mobile devices for communication purpose.

One or more of the above described techniques can be implemented in or involve one or more computer systems. illustrates a generalized example of a computing environment . The computing environment is not intended to suggest any limitation as to scope of use or functionality of described embodiments.

With reference to the computing environment includes at least one processing unit and memory . In this basic configuration is included within a dashed line. The processing unit executes computer executable instructions and may be a real or a virtual processor. In a multi processing system multiple processing units execute computer executable instructions to increase processing power. The memory may be volatile memory e.g. registers cache RAM non volatile memory e.g. ROM EEPROM flash memory etc. or some combination of the two. In some embodiments the memory stores software implementing described techniques.

A computing environment may have additional features. For example the computing environment includes storage one or more input devices one or more output devices and one or more communication connections . An interconnection mechanism not shown such as a bus controller or network interconnects the components of the computing environment . Typically operating system software not shown provides an operating environment for other software executing in the computing environment and coordinates activities of the components of the computing environment .

The storage may be removable or non removable and includes magnetic disks magnetic tapes or cassettes CD ROMs CD RWs DVDs or any other medium which can be used to store information and which can be accessed within the computing environment . In some embodiments the storage stores instructions for the software .

The input device s may be a touch input device such as a keyboard mouse pen trackball touch screen or game controller a voice input device a scanning device a digital camera or another device that provides input to the computing environment . The output device s may be a display printer speaker or another device that provides output from the computing environment .

The communication connection s enable communication over a communication medium to another computing entity. The communication medium conveys information such as computer executable instructions audio or video information or other data in a modulated data signal. A modulated data signal is a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired or wireless techniques implemented with an electrical optical RF infrared acoustic or other carrier.

Implementations can be described in the general context of computer readable media. Computer readable media are any available media that can be accessed within a computing environment. By way of example and not limitation within the computing environment computer readable media include memory storage communication media and combinations of any of the above.

Having described and illustrated the principles of our invention with reference to described embodiments it will be recognized that the described embodiments can be modified in arrangement and detail without departing from such principles. It should be understood that the programs processes or methods described herein are not related or limited to any particular type of computing environment unless indicated otherwise. Various types of general purpose or specialized computing environments may be used with or perform operations in accordance with the teachings described herein. Elements of the described embodiments shown in software may be implemented in hardware and vice versa.

In view of the many possible embodiments to which the principles of our invention may be applied we claim as our invention all such embodiments as may come within the scope and spirit of the following claims and equivalents thereto.

