---

title: Privileged account manager, application account management
abstract: Techniques for managing accounts are provided. An access management system may check out credentials for accessing target systems. For example a user may receive a password for a period of time or until checked back in. Access to the target system may be logged during this time. Upon the password being checked in, a security account may modify the password so that the user may not log back in without checking out a new password. Additionally, in some examples, password policies for the security account may be managed. As such, when a password policy changes, the security account password may be dynamically updated. Additionally, in some examples, hierarchical viewing perspectives may be determined and/or selected for visualizing one or more managed accounts. Further, accounts may be organized into groups based on roles, and grants for the accounts may be dynamically updated as changes occur or new accounts are managed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09152783&OS=09152783&RS=09152783
owner: Oracle International Corporation
number: 09152783
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120531
---
The present application is a non provisional of and claims the benefit and priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 540 984 filed Sep. 29 2011 entitled PRIVILEGED ACCOUNT MANAGER the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference for all purposes. This application is also related to application Ser. No. 13 485 327 filed on the same day herewith entitled PRIVILEGED ACCOUNT MANAGER ACCESS MANAGEMENT application Ser. No. 13 485 372 filed on the same day herewith entitled PRIVILEGED ACCOUNT MANAGER MANAGED ACCOUNT PERSPECTIVES and application Ser. No. 13 485 408 filed on the same day herewith entitled PRIVILEGED ACCOUNT MANAGER DYNAMIC POLICY ENGINE the entire contents of each is hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein under 35 U.S.C. 120.

Modern computing systems often utilize multiple privileged accounts for providing secure access to computing resources. Additionally multiple different types of privileged accounts may be implemented by a single system to provide different roles and or levels of access. For example a user account may be provided different rights from an administrative account. With a wide variety of account types and or roles it can become burdensome to manage credentials and or security for the multitude of accounts. Additionally visualizing and or displaying such accounts in a meaningful manner may become constrained. As such finding improved ways to manage privileged accounts continues to be a priority.

Techniques for managing privileged accounts are provided. In some examples an access management system may be provided to check out log in credentials to users for accessing a target system. For example a user may receive a password for accessing the target system for a period of time or until checked back in. Access to the target system may be logged during this time. In some examples upon the password being checked back in a security account may be provided that is configured to modify the password so that the user may not be able to log back in without checking out a new password. Additionally in some examples password policies for the security account may be managed. As such when a password policy changes the target system and or an application wallet configured to store the security account password may be dynamically updated. Additionally in some examples hierarchical viewing perspectives may be determined and or selected for visualizing one or more privileged accounts being managed. Further privileged accounts may be organized into groups based at least in part on roles and as such grants for the managed accounts may be dynamically updated as changes occur or new accounts come under management.

According to at least one example a system may include memory and processors configured to access the memory. The processors may also be configured to execute instructions to receive information associated with an account used by a first application to access a target system. The account may in some examples be used for accessing resources used by the target system. Additionally the processors may also be configured to execute the instructions to manage a feature of the account used by the first application. In some aspects the first application is not a user.

In some examples the processors may also be configured to execute the instructions to register the account used by the first application with the system based at least in part on the received information associated with the account used by the first application. The information associated with the account used by the first application may include an account identifier an identifier of the target system and or mapping information for application wallet associated with the first application. In some aspects the target system may be a database and or a server. The feature of the account used by the first application may be a password policy in some examples. Further the password policy may be a password construction rule and or a password lifecycle rule.

According to at least on example a first system may include memory and processors configured to access the memory. The processors may also be configured to execute instructions to receive identification of a user accessible account of a target system to be managed. The identification of the user accessible account may be received from the target system. Additionally the processors may also be configured to associate the user accessible account with a security account of the target system. In some aspects the security account may be configured to modify a password associated with the user accessible account.

In some examples the security account may not be accessible by a user of the target system. Additionally the security account may only be accessible by the first system. Further the target system may be configured with multiple user accessible accounts. In some cases the processors may also be configured to execute instructions to associate a predetermined number of the multiple user accessible accounts with the security account. The predetermined number of user accessible accounts may be configurable by the target system.

In some examples the processors may also be configured to execute the instructions to receive a request for a password. The request may be received from a user of the target system. Additionally the password may provide the user with access to the user accessible account of the target system. The processors may further be configured to execute the instructions to provide the password to the user. In some cases the password may be provided to the user only when the user has been successfully authenticated by the first system. The processors may also be configured to execute the instructions to log an indication that the user has checked out the password. Further the processors may be configured to execute the instructions to automatically modify the password of the user accessible account in response to the user checking the password back in to the first system.

Further in some aspects the processors may be configured to execute the instructions to receive a user grant associated with access rights of the user accessible account and to administer the user grant by managing a password for providing the user with access to the user accessible account of the target system. The user grant may be received from the target system in some examples. The user grant may also indicate a day a time a duration and or a location during which the system will provide the password to the user.

According to at least one example an account management system may include memory and processors configured to access the memory. The processors may also be configured to execute instructions to receive identification of multiple accounts of a target system. The identification may be received from an administrator account in some examples. In some aspects at least one of the multiple accounts may be managed by the account management system. The processors may also be configured to execute the instructions to prepare at least one of the multiple accounts in a user configurable hierarchical view. In some aspects the preparation of the hierarchical view may be for display to a user account.

In some examples the administrator account may be associated with the account management system and may act on behalf of the target system. The account may also be associated with an application for accessing the target system. Additionally the processors may also be configured to execute the instructions to receive an attribute value pair for at least one of the multiple accounts. The attribute pair value may be received from the administrator account in one example. In some aspects the attribute may be geographic functional domain based and or user defined. Additionally the value may be a location an account function a domain name and or a user defined value associated with one of the multiple accounts. Further the processors may also be configured to execute the instructions to receive a perspective selection for viewing the multiple accounts. The perspective selection may be received from the user account. The accounts may be viewed based at least in part on the attribute value pair and or the selected perspective.

According to at least one example a system may include memory and processors configured to access the memory. The processors may also be configured to execute instructions to receive information associated with multiple accounts associated with a target system. In some aspects the multiple accounts may be configured for accessing resources used by the associated target system. Additionally the processors may also be configured to execute the instructions to organize one or more of the multiple accounts together in a group and assign a grant to the group. The group may be based at least in part on a role for each of the one or more accounts.

In some aspects different accounts may be of different types including but not limited to a user account type a root account type an administrative account type and or a user defined account type. Additionally different accounts may be associated with different target systems and or different types of target systems. In some examples the received information associated with the multiple accounts of the target system may indicate a particular target system associated with the account a type of the account or a role associated with the account.

In some examples the processors may be further configured to execute the instructions to receive grant information for the group. The assignment of the grant to the group may be based at least in part on the received grant information some examples. The processors may also be configured to execute the instructions to receive information associated with a new account associated with the target system and to add the new account to the group based at least in part on information indicating that a role of the new account matches a role of the group. Further the processors may be configured to execute the instructions to update the grant of each account in the group.

The foregoing together with other features and embodiments will become more apparent upon referring to the following specification claims and accompanying drawings.

In the following description various embodiments will be described. For purposes of explanation specific configurations and details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will also be apparent to one skilled in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without the specific details. Furthermore well known features may be omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the embodiment being described.

Embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to among other things providing privileged account management services to one or more entities e.g. target systems users of target systems administrators of target systems and or enterprise solutions via a computing resource and or computing system. As used herein a target system may include but is not limited to a computer software product a mobile application a web application a web server a cloud based application or any other service that may be provided and or administered by a computing device to access computing resources via one or more accounts. For example an enterprise solution of a business may provide remote or other access to protected resources e.g. networked files directory information or the like of the business. As such separate accounts may be implemented e.g. user accounts administrative accounts and or application accounts for accessing or otherwise logging in to the enterprise solution. In this example the enterprise solution hosted at a server or other computing system of the business may be the target system. The target system may include one or more databases lightweight directory access protocol LDAP servers UNIX systems or the like. Further special accounts e.g. a security account and or an application account may be implemented to aid in facilitating the privileged account management. As used herein a privileged account may include one that relies on a password to receive access to the target system.

In some aspects an account management service may be provided via one or more account management service computers in communication with a target system. The account management service computers may provide the ability for users administrators and or application accounts of the target system to manage credentials grants roles types and or visualization of one or more accounts of the target system. In one example the account management service may provide access management and security by managing log in credentials for the one or more accounts of the target system. When a user or an administrator wishes to access the target system the account management service may check out an appropriate password to the user. The user may then utilize the checked out password to log in to the target system. While checked out the access management service may log or otherwise record interaction with the target system. In this way malicious and or other behavior may be properly attributed to the user and or administrator that has the password checked out. In some examples when the password is checked back in a security account of the account management service in some examples a super root account may log in to the target system and modify the password. Thus subsequent requests to check out the password may receive a different password i.e. the modified password .

In some examples the security account i.e. the super root may not be accessible by a user or an administrator. This security account may be a special account that only provides target system access to the account management service. In this way a user who has checked out a password will not be able to hijack the current password change the password without notifying others and or act maliciously without being identified. This is because the security account may always have root access to the account credential information and will be able to log in even if the password were modified by a user previously logged in. Additionally by modifying the password after each checked out password is checked back in the account management service may ensure that users and or administrators are unable to log in after the password has been checked back in e.g. by remembering or otherwise keeping the password . Further by logging actions taken with the target system and information associated with which users have the password checked out and when the account management service may be able to identify what actions were taken by which users.

In other aspects the account management service may provide application account management and security by managing log in credentials for an application account of the target system. As used herein an application account may include an account that is not accessible by a user or administrator of the target system but rather is provided to the account management service computers and or user devices to log in to the target system. That is the account management service and or a remote application may utilize the application account to automatically log in to the target system to enable access to other accounts. In this way the application account may log in a client device prior to the user of the client device providing user credentials. In other words the application account may register identify or otherwise authenticate a remote device application and or service.

In some examples the application account manager may receive registration information associated with one or more accounts including an application account of the target systems mapping information associated with an application wallet e.g. a credential wallet of a mobile device of another device or of an application and or password policies associated with the application account and or other accounts e.g. user accounts and or administrator accounts . As such when a password policy changes the application account manager may update the application account password with the target system and in the application wallet. In this way the application may be able to identify itself and or authenticate itself with the target system even when the password policy is updated.

In other aspects the account management service may provide perspective management and or dynamic password policy management by providing free form account tagging and or role based account grouping respectively. For example a perspective management service may allow administrators to provide free form and or user defined tags i.e. an attribute value pair for describing accounts. In one non limiting example an administrator may add accounts of the target system to be managed by the perspective management service. Once added the administrator may tag accounts based on geographic regions e.g. continent country city etc. functionality e.g. support human resources development legal etc. or the like. The fact that the tags may be user defined in a free form manner suggests that the administrator may freely identify other types or categories that they feel may aid in the organization and or visualization of the accounts. Once the tags i.e. the attributes are identified or otherwise set the administrator and or a user may provide the appropriate values for each account. A user may then create a perspective for viewing the accounts based on the tags. For example one non limiting perspective may display or otherwise organize accounts located in a specified country at a highest level followed by accounts of a particular function followed by some other user defined category or attribute.

In some examples a dynamic password policy management service may allow administrators to group one or more accounts together based at least in part on user administrator defined roles. For example roles may include but are not limited to user accounts administrator accounts root accounts or the like. Once the role based groups are identified access grants may be set determined or otherwise managed. As such when a new account is created by the target system to be managed by the account management service the role of the new account may identify an appropriate group in which it should be included. If the account is placed in that group access grants may then be dynamically inherited by the new account based on it being in added to the group. Additionally if access grants are changed for a particular group each account managed by the group may be dynamically updated with the new access grant without necessitating manual updating of each account s grant policy.

This brief introduction including section titles and corresponding summaries is provided for the reader s convenience and is not intended to limit the scope of the claims nor the preceding sections. Furthermore the techniques described above and below may be implemented in a number of ways and in a number of contexts. Several example implementations and contexts are provided with reference to the following figures as described below in more detail. However the following implementations and contexts are but a few of many.

The one or more target system computers may also deploy or otherwise utilize one or more proprietary or third party identity services access management services or other services. In some examples an account management service implemented by one or more account management service computers may act as a management layer for interacting with the target system computers and or its third party service providers. As such in some cases the user devices the target system computers and or the account management service computers may each be accessible by one another via the one or more networks .

In some examples the networks may include any one or a combination of multiple different types of networks such as cable networks the Internet wireless networks cellular networks intranet systems and or other private and or public networks. While the illustrated example represents the users accessing the application over the networks the described techniques may equally apply in instances where the users interact with a target system computer via the one or more user devices over a landline phone via a kiosk or in any other manner. It is also noted that the described techniques may apply in other client server arrangements e.g. set top boxes etc. as well as in non client server arrangements e.g. locally stored applications etc. .

The application may allow the users to interact with the target system computers such as to store access and or manage data develop and or deploy computer applications and or host web content. The one or more target system computers perhaps arranged in a cluster of servers or as a server farm may provide access to the application and or host the application e.g. when the application is a web service application . Other server architectures may also be used to provide access to the application and or to host the application . The application may be capable of handling requests from many users and serving in response various user interfaces that can be rendered at the user devices . The application can be any type of application e.g. a web browser or other interface that supports user interaction including enterprise solutions email applications social networking sites online retailers informational sites blog sites search engine sites news and entertainment sites and so forth. Additionally the described techniques can be similarly implemented outside of the application .

As noted above the architecture may include one or more user devices. The user devices may be any type of computing device such as but not limited to a mobile phone a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop computer a desktop computer a thin client device a tablet PC etc. In some examples the user devices may be in communication with the target system computers via the networks or via other network connections. Further the user devices may also be configured to implement one or more applications e.g. the application and or a mobile application . In one illustrative configuration the user devices may include at least one memory and one or more processing units or processor s . The processor s may be implemented as appropriate in hardware computer executable instructions firmware or combinations thereof. Computer executable instructions or firmware implementations of the processor s may include computer executable or machine executable instructions written in any suitable programming language to perform the various functions described.

The memory may store program instructions that are loadable and executable on the processor s as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. Depending on the configuration and type of user device the memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. . The user device may also include additional removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing devices. In some implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or ROM.

Turning to the contents of the memory in more detail the memory may include an operating system and one or more application programs or services for implementing the features disclosed herein including at least a management console such as a Web browser or dedicated application e.g. a smart phone application a tablet application etc. and or the application . The management console may be configured to receive store and or display a website or other interface for interacting with the account management service computers . Additionally the memory may store access credentials and or other user information such as but not limited to user IDs passwords other user information and or resource management requests to be sent to the target system computers and or account management service computers . In some examples the other client information may include information for authenticating an account access request such as but not limited to a device ID a cookie an IP address a location or the like. In addition the other client information may include a user provided response to a security question or a geographic location obtained by the user device . Further the service requests may include requests to update and or manage identities requests to access one or more service providers requests to authenticate or authorize the user requests to tag accounts requests to group accounts requests to set access grants requests to register accounts with the account management service computers etc.

Additionally in some aspects the management console may allow a user to interact directly with the account management service computers . For example the user devices may make access service and or identity management requests to the account management service computers via the advice console . In some examples the requests sent to the account management service computers may be formatted as REST calls implemented using WebServices and or implemented via remote method invocation RMI . When using RESTful interfaces the REST calls may be predefined and or exposed by the account management service computers . Also utilizing the management console in some examples a user may make requests for accessing the target system computers. In some cases these requests may be received by the account management service computers as REST calls WebServices calls and or RMI invocations. The received requests may then be translated or otherwise utilized to generate or otherwise retrieve one or more passwords password policies security logs perspectives and or visualizations role based group information combinations of the foregoing or the like.

In some aspects the account management service computers may also be any type of computing devices such as but not limited to mobile desktop thin client and or cloud computing devices such as servers. In some examples the account management service computers may be in communication with the user devices via the networks or via other network connections. The account management service computers may include one or more servers perhaps arranged in a cluster as a server farm or as individual servers not associated with one another. These servers may be configured to host features described herein including but not limited to the account management service. Additionally in some aspects the account management service computers may be configured as part of an integrated distributed computing environment.

In one illustrative configuration the account management service computers may include at least one memory and one or more processing units or processor s . The processor s may be implemented as appropriate in hardware computer executable instructions firmware or combinations thereof. Computer executable instruction or firmware implementations of the processor s may include computer executable or machine executable instructions written in any suitable programming language to perform the various functions described.

The memory may store program instructions that are loadable and executable on the processor s as well as data generated during the execution of these programs. Depending on the configuration and type of account management service computers the memory may be volatile such as random access memory RAM and or non volatile such as read only memory ROM flash memory etc. . The account management service computers or servers may also include additional storage which may include removable storage and or non removable storage. The additional storage may include but is not limited to magnetic storage optical disks and or tape storage. The disk drives and their associated computer readable media may provide non volatile storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing devices. In some implementations the memory may include multiple different types of memory such as static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or ROM.

The memory the additional storage both removable and non removable are all examples of computer readable storage media. For example computer readable storage media may include volatile or non volatile removable or non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. The memory and the additional storage are all examples of computer storage media.

The account management service computers may also contain communications connection s that allow the target system computers to communicate with a stored database another computing device or server user terminals and or other devices on the networks . The account management service computers may also include input output I O device s such as a keyboard a mouse a pen a voice input device a touch input device a display speakers a printer etc.

Turning to the contents of the memory in more detail the memory may include an operating system and one or more application programs or services for implementing the features disclosed herein including a user application module an access management module an account management module a policy engine module and or an account perspective module . The user application module may be configured to generate host or otherwise provide the management console and or a website for accessing the management console .

In some examples the access management module may be configured to implement the access management services briefly described above. For example the account management module may provide check out check in security logging security accounts and or automatic password modification services for accounts associated with the target system computers . In this way in some examples account passwords may be changed after each use and the target system computers and or administrator devices may be able to monitor what users are logged in to the target system computers at what times. While it may be possible for multiple users to check out a password in some examples the same password at the same time the account management module may make it possible to keep users from hijacking the password or otherwise acting maliciously on the target system computers without going unnoticed.

In some aspects the account management module may be configured to implement the application account management services briefly described above. For example the account management module may provide password lifecycle automatic password updating e.g. based at least in part on password policy changes application wallet mapping and or password policy management services for accounts associated with the target system computers . In this way in some examples password policies may be updated and or changed without eliminating application account access to the target system computers . That is an application wallet that maintains an application account password may be automatically updated by the account management module based at least in part on a password policy change. As noted above an application account may be an account that is not and or cannot be accessed by a user and may be utilized by an application e.g. the application of the device to access to the target system computers .

In some aspects the policy engine module may be configured to implement the role based access grant policy update services briefly described above. For example the policy engine module may provide account registration account role assignment i.e. the ability to assign roles and or types to accounts account grouping in some examples based at least in part on the roles and or automatic access grant updating. In this way accounts may be assigned to groups and in some examples access grants may be updated for each account in the group based at least in part on change in policy. Additionally in some examples a new account may be added to a group and have grants automatically assigned thereto based at least in part on the grants already assigned to the group.

In some aspects the account perspective module may be configured to implement the user defined perspective and or hierarchical viewing services described briefly above. For example the account perspective module may provide the ability to tag or otherwise assign attribute value pairs to describe accounts. Based at least in part on the assigned tags users and or administrators may be able to view user defined views of the managed accounts based at least in part user selected perspectives.

Additional types of computer storage media which may also be non transitory that may be present in the account management service computers may include but are not limited to programmable random access memory PRAM SRAM DRAM RAM ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disc read only memory CD ROM digital versatile discs DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the account management service computers . Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Alternatively computer readable communication media may include computer readable instructions program modules or other data transmitted within a data signal such as a carrier wave or other transmission. However as used herein computer readable storage media does not include computer readable communication media.

As noted in at least one example one or more aspects of the environment or architecture may incorporate and or be incorporated into a distributed program execution service such as that hosted by the account management service computers . depicts a simplified architecture illustrating additional aspects and or features of the account management service computers of . For example illustrates an access manager such as that implemented by the access management module of configured to store account grant data a security account a password module and or activity logs . Similar to that described with reference to the account management service computers may be in communication with one or more target system computers and or user administrator computers via the one or more networks . Additionally as described above the one or more target system computers may include one or more accounts N collectively accounts . While the user administrator computers are shown here as a laptop computer any computing device accessible to a user or an administrator of an account or application may be utilized. Further as described above the user administrator computers may include a user interface for receiving instructions and or providing feedback to the user and or administrator. The user interface may also be stored in a memory configured to store user account credentials and or checked out credentials .

In one non limiting example a user or an administrator of an account associated with a target system computer may provide user credentials for accessing the account management service computers . In this example it is assumed that the accounts have already been brought under the management of the account management service i.e. the accounts have been registered with the access manager and or appropriate account information has been stored therein . Upon authenticating the user and checking the grant data e.g. to determine whether the user has been granted rights to access the account the access manager may provide from the password module a password for logging into the account . In some examples the fact that the password has been checked out to the user may be logged in the activity log . Additionally the user computer may now store the password in the checked out credentials data store . The user may now log into the account . Any some or all activity associated with the user computer and the account may also be logged in the activity logs while the password is checked out to the user.

In some aspects when the user is finished accessing the account the user may check the password back in with the access manager . This action may also be logged in the activity logs . Upon checking the password back in the access manager may automatically invoke the password module . The password module may be responsible for implementing the security account to log into the account for modifying the password. Since the security account always has password modification grants and is not accessible by the user or user computers the password may be modified in such a way that the user may no longer be able to use the password stored in the checked out credentials data store . This may aid in ensuring that the user is not able to access the account without first checking out a password as the password will be changed by the security account . In some cases only the password module may be able to access the security account . Additionally in some aspects the password module may be configured to randomly generate each new password upon each instance of a user checking in a password.

In at least one non limiting example an administrator or user may register the one or more accounts associated with the target system computers with the account manager . As such the account data may include information associated with registered accounts such as but not limited to account identifiers account credentials authorized users administrators access grant information and or information indicating with which target system the account is associated. In some examples once registered the administrator may also set password policies by entering one or more policies e.g. construction requirements lifecycle requirements etc. via the user interface . The administrator may also provide mapping data via the interface . The mapping data in some examples will identify a location of the application wallet in such a way that the account manager will be able to access receive information from and or provide information to the application wallet . For example the mapping data may include a uniform resource locator URL or other location information. In this case the user account credentials may include administrator account credentials for logging into the account manager in order to register the accounts provide the password policies and or provide the mapping data . However in other examples the user account credentials may include credentials for logging the user and or administrator into the accounts e.g. once they have been registered and or mapped .

In some aspects and as noted above the account manager may also be configured with a password module . The password module may be configured to log into the accounts of the target system computers on behalf of the account manager . For example when a password policy changes e.g. based at least in part on input from an administrator based at least in part on a lifecycle policy and or based at least in part on a change in account data the password module may be configured to log into the target system update the application account password e.g. to match a new policy with the target system and update the application account password in the application wallet . In this way the application account may always have the correct application account password stored with application wallet for logging into the target system computers regardless of changes made to the password policy. As noted above in some examples the application account may be configured to logging an application of the user administrator computers into the target system computers e.g. the application of Figure and may not be accessible to a user or an administrator.

In at least one non limiting example the perspective and policy manager may be configured to receive from an administrator logged in via the user administrator computer one or more accounts to be managed by the account management service computers . As noted above management of these accounts may include checking out passwords to users for accessing the accounts of the target system computers and or updating passwords of application accounts. Additionally in some examples the management may include providing methods for effectively organizing and or visualizing the accounts for display on a computing system such as but not limited to the one or more user administrator computers . For example the perspective and policy manager may store the registered account information in the target account data store . The registered account information may include but is not limited to account identification information account log in credentials and or associated target system computer information.

In some examples administrators and or users may provide free form tags to describe or otherwise annotate the accounts . For example using the user interface an administrator may provide an admin defined tag at input . Such tag information may be stored in the tag data store of the account management service computers . Admin and or user defined tags may in some examples include attribute value pairs such as but not limited to continent Asia country UK function legal or the like. Alternatively the admin defined tags may include just the attribute while another administrator or a user may later include the appropriate value. Further in some examples administrators and or users may be able to provide free form tags and or attribute value pairs that are not standard tags. For example a previously unknown type of tag e.g. native language group leader hair color etc. may be used that appropriately fits a type of account being used in a particular situation.

Additionally in some examples once tags are assigned to the registered accounts i.e. accounts that are being managed by the account management service computers users of the target system computers may be able to select and or define viewing perspectives e.g. previously stored or newly added to the perspective data store . In some cases the possible viewing perspectives may be based at least in part on the pre set tags. However in other examples users may be able to define new perspectives and or add new tags as appropriate. As noted the perspectives may be stored in the perspective data store . Once a perspective is selected and or defined the perspective and policy manager may generate or otherwise prepare a view to display to the user via the display of perspective module of the device . The user may then further narrow and or change the view based at least in part on the prepared and or rendered perspective. Thus the multiple different accounts in some examples part of multiple different target systems and or different target system computers may be organized visualized and or displayed in user defined e.g. hierarchical ways.

In at least one other non limiting example the perspective and policy manager may be configured to implement the policy engine to dynamically manage access grant policies of one or more accounts . For example the policy engine may be configured to maintain grants associated with each account or it may be configured to maintain grants associated with groups of accounts. In some examples a grant indicates one or more permissions provided to a user an administrator an account and or a group of accounts. Further accounts may be assigned roles including but not limited to user administrator root etc. These roles may be used in some cases to identify a type of account and or a group of accounts .

In some examples an administrator may provide via the role input one or more roles for each or some of the accounts registered to be managed by the account management service computers . In this way each account may be assigned a role. Additionally using the role input administrators may also assign grants to particular users. This grant information may be stored in some examples in the group grant data store . Further in some cases accounts may be organized in groups by the perspective and policy manager e.g. based at least in part on receiving group information via the group input also to be stored in the group grant data store . Accounts may be dynamically added or removed from groups as well as grants may be added or removed to users. However in some examples once groups have been formed by the perspective and policy manager one or more grants may be assigned to the group.

In some cases new accounts may be added to the account management service to be managed by the account management service computers . If the new account has a role that matches a group role the account may be automatically added to the group with the matching role. In this case the grant of the group may be automatically inherited by the newly added account . Alternatively if an account is removed from a group the grant that was assigned to that group may be removed from the account being removed. Further in some cases when a grant policy changes for a particular role the policy engine may automatically update the grants for the group and or for each account of the group. However updating the grant for each account may facilitated by updating the grant for the group rather than updating each account individually.

Further the example architectures tools and computing devices shown in are provided by way of example only. Numerous other operating environments system architectures and device configurations are possible. Accordingly embodiments of the present disclosure should not be construed as being limited to any particular operating environment system architecture or device configuration.

Additionally some any or all of the processes may be performed under the control of one or more computer systems configured with executable instructions and may be implemented as code e.g. executable instructions one or more computer programs or one or more applications executing collectively on one or more processors by hardware or combinations thereof. As noted above the code may be stored on a computer readable storage medium for example in the form of a computer program comprising a plurality of instructions executable by one or more processors. The computer readable storage medium may be non transitory.

In some aspects the process of may be performed by the one or more account management service computers shown in . In particular some or all of the process of may be performed by the access management module of and or the access manager of . The process may begin by receiving from a target system information associated with an account to be managed at . As noted above the information may include but is not limited to an identification of the account users of the account grants associated with the account and or the user associated target system information or the like. At the process may associate the account with a security account of the target system configured to modify a password associated with the account. That is a security account e.g. a management account super root or the like may have priority access and or a grant that allows it to change account passwords in all instances. For example the security account may be configured or granted permission to modify account passwords even if the password has been changed by another.

In some examples the process may then receive a request to access the account e.g. from a user at . The process at may authenticate the user or administrator that is requesting access to the account. At the process may check out an account password to the user assuming the user has been authenticated and or has been assigned appropriate grants rights . As noted above activity logs including information associated with which user has the password checked out may be stored and or maintained to track usage of the account. At the process may automatically modify the password of the account upon receiving indication that the user has checked the password back in. The process may then end at by logging the remaining check out check in information e.g. that the user has checked the password back in .

In some examples the process may assign a grant policy to a group based at least in part on the grant information at . The process at may receive information associated with a new account associated with the target system. In some cases the new account may be recently registered with the management system and or may be recently created by a user administrator and or the target system. At the process may add the new account to a group when the role of the new account matches the role of a group. In other words the new account may be automatically added to a group based at least in part on the role. If no group has a matching role a new group may be formed with the new account. Subsequent new accounts of this role may then be added to the new group. The process may end at by updating the grants of each account in appropriate groups based at least in part on a newly added account and or a change in the grant policy for a group. For example if a grant policy changes for the role user then each account in a group associated with the user role may be updated.

Client computing devices may be general purpose personal computers including by way of example personal computers and or laptop computers running various versions of Microsoft Windows and or Apple Macintosh operating systems cell phones or PDAs running software such as Microsoft Windows Mobile and being Internet e mail SMS Blackberry or other communication protocol enabled and or workstation computers running any of a variety of commercially available UNIX or UNIX like operating systems including without limitation the variety of GNU Linux operating systems . Alternatively client computing devices and may be any other electronic device such as a thin client computer Internet enabled gaming system and or personal messaging device capable of communicating over a network e.g. network described below . Although example system environment is shown with four client computing devices any number of client computing devices may be supported. Other devices such as devices with sensors etc. may interact with server .

System environment may include a network . Network may be any type of network familiar to those skilled in the art that can support data communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols including without limitation TCP IP SNA IPX AppleTalk and the like. Merely by way of example network can be a local area network LAN such as an Ethernet network a Token Ring network and or the like a wide area network a virtual network including without limitation a virtual private network VPN the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network PSTN an infra red network a wireless network e.g. a network operating under any of the IEEE 802.11 suite of protocols the Bluetooth protocol known in the art and or any other wireless protocol and or any combination of these and or other networks.

System environment also includes one or more server computers which may be general purpose computers specialized server computers including by way of example PC servers UNIX servers mid range servers mainframe computers rack mounted servers etc. server farms server clusters or any other appropriate arrangement and or combination. In various embodiments server may be adapted to run one or more services or software applications described in the foregoing disclosure. For example server may correspond to a server for performing processing described above according to an embodiment of the present disclosure.

Server may run an operating system including any of those discussed above as well as any commercially available server operating system. Server may also run any of a variety of additional server applications and or mid tier applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers Java servers database servers and the like. Example database servers include without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase IBM and the like.

System environment may also include one or more databases . Databases may reside in a variety of locations. By way of example one or more of databases may reside on a non transitory storage medium local to and or resident in server . Alternatively databases may be remote from server and in communication with server via a network based or dedicated connection. In one set of embodiments databases may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to server may be stored locally on server and or remotely as appropriate. In one set of embodiments databases may include relational databases such as databases provided by Oracle that are adapted to store update and retrieve data in response to SQL formatted commands.

Computer system may additionally include a computer readable storage media reader a communications subsystem e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infra red communication device etc. and working memory which may include RAM and ROM devices as described above. In some embodiments computer system may also include a processing acceleration unit which can include a digital signal processor DSP a special purpose processor and or the like.

Computer readable storage media reader can further be connected to a computer readable storage medium together and optionally in combination with storage device s comprehensively representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices plus storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing computer readable information. Communications system may permit data to be exchanged with network and or any other computer described above with respect to system environment .

Computer system may also comprise software elements shown as being currently located within working memory including an operating system and or other code such as an application program which may be a client application Web browser mid tier application RDBMS etc. . In an example embodiment working memory may include executable code and associated data structures used for relying party and open authorization related processing as described above. It should be appreciated that alternative embodiments of computer system may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile non transitory removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices data signals data transmissions or any other medium which can be used to store or transmit the desired information and which can be accessed by a computer.

Although specific embodiments of the disclosure have been described various modifications alterations alternative constructions and equivalents are also encompassed within the scope of the disclosure. Embodiments of the present disclosure are not restricted to operation within certain specific data processing environments but are free to operate within a plurality of data processing environments. Additionally although embodiments of the present disclosure have been described using a particular series of transactions and steps it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the scope of the present disclosure is not limited to the described series of transactions and steps.

Further while embodiments of the present disclosure have been described using a particular combination of hardware and software it should be recognized that other combinations of hardware and software are also within the scope of the present disclosure. Embodiments of the present disclosure may be implemented only in hardware or only in software or using combinations thereof.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that additions subtractions deletions and other modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope.

Illustrative methods and systems for providing statistically triggered data placement are described above. Some or all of these systems and methods may but need not be implemented at least partially by architectures such as those shown in above.

Although embodiments have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the disclosure is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as illustrative forms of implementing the embodiments. Conditional language such as among others can could might or may unless specifically stated otherwise or otherwise understood within the context as used is generally intended to convey that certain embodiments could include while other embodiments do not include certain features elements and or steps. Thus such conditional language is not generally intended to imply that features elements and or steps are in any way required for one or more embodiments or that one or more embodiments necessarily include logic for deciding with or without user input or prompting whether these features elements and or steps are included or are to be performed in any particular embodiment.

