---

title: Inferring target clusters based on social connections
abstract: A seed cluster comprising a group of users who share a particular attribute and/or affiliation is determined by a social networking system. For each user of the seed cluster, other users and/or entities connected to the user in the social networking system are retrieved. For each retrieved other user or entity, the social networking system may determine whether the other user or entity exhibits the attribute or affiliation based on a random walk algorithm. A resulting targeting cluster of users and/or entities may be used for targeting advertisements targeting to members. A social networking system may also infer an affiliation for a user based on the user's interaction with a page, application, or entity where other users who interacted with the same page, application, or entity have the same affiliation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09373146&OS=09373146&RS=09373146
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09373146
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120924
---
This invention relates generally to social networking and in particular to inferring target clusters of users based on social connections in a social networking system.

Traditional targeting criteria for advertising relies on demographic data and structured information such as a user s self declared interests and intentions to be marketable i.e. to be in the market to purchase a product or service. Advertisers in an effort to locate and target these users purchase analytical data gathered by third parties that track users visiting websites related to the advertiser s product. For example websites on the Internet track people comparing car prices and filling out a form for a test drive at a local dealership and sell this information to advertisers. Advertisers may also target specific types of publishers or pages within a publisher s network in an effort to reach their intended audience e.g. ads on Cars.com or the cars category on Yahoo to reach users who are believed to be in the market to buy a car. But in the end advertisers are limited to educated guessing at a user s intent to purchase or a user s interest in a particular subject matter.

In recent years users of social networking systems have shared their interests attributes and affiliations engaging with other users of the social networking systems by sharing photos real time status updates and playing social games. The amount of information gathered from users is staggering information describing recent moves to a new city political preferences causes graduations births engagements marriages and the like. Entities may also declare attributes affiliations and other information such as pages representing businesses groups of users representing various organizations and applications operating on social networking systems on behalf an entity. Users may also interact with these entities providing more information about the users based on their interactions on the social networking systems. Social networking systems have been passively recording this information as part of the user experience but social networking systems have lacked robust tools to use this information about users for targeting advertisements.

Specifically the information available on social networking systems has not been used to define clusters of users of a social networking system that exhibit a particular attribute or have a particular affiliation such as political party preference or interest in a niche topic such as hipsters. Social networking systems have not provided advertisers with targeting clusters that utilize the information available about the users of the social networking systems.

A seed cluster comprising a group of users who share a particular attribute and or affiliation is determined by a social networking system. For each user of the seed cluster a plurality of other users and or entities connected to the user in the social networking system are retrieved. For each retrieved other user or entity the social networking system may determine whether the other user or entity exhibits the attribute or affiliation. An explicit declaration of the other user or entity an analysis of the connected users and or entities of the retrieved other user or entity and or a random walk algorithm may be used to make this determination. As a result the social networking system may determine one or more inferences that other users and or entities exhibit the attribute or affiliation. The resulting targeting cluster of users and or entities may be used for targeting advertisements targeting to members. The targeting cluster may be tested for accuracy using performance testing e.g. measuring click through rates of members in the targeting cluster for a particular advertisement and measuring negative feedback rates of members in the targeting cluster . A social networking system may also infer an affiliation for a user based on the user s interaction with a page application or entity where other users who interacted with the same page application or entity have the same affiliation.

The figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

A social networking system offers its users the ability to communicate and interact with other users of the social networking system. Users join the social networking system and add connections to a number of other users to whom they desire to be connected. Users of social networking system can provide information describing them which is stored as user profiles. For example users can provide their age gender geographical location education history employment history and the like. The information provided by users may be used by the social networking system to direct information to the user. For example the social networking system may recommend social groups events and potential friends to a user. The social networking system may also utilize user profile information to direct advertisements to the user ensuring that only relevant advertisements are directed to the user. Relevant advertisements ensure that advertising spending reaches their intended audiences rather than wasting shrinking resources on users that are likely to ignore the advertisement.

In addition to declarative information provided by users social networking systems may also record users actions on the social networking system. These actions include communications with other users sharing photos interactions with applications that operate on the social networking system such as a social gaming application responding to a poll adding an interest and joining an employee network. Information about users such as stronger interests in particular users and applications than others based on their behavior can be generated from these recorded actions through analysis and machine learning by the social networking system.

A social networking system may also attempt to infer information about its users. A social networking system may analyze large bursts of comments on a user s wall or status update from other users that include keywords such as Congratulations and baby. Though largely unstructured this information can be analyzed to infer life events that are happening to users on the social networking system.

Further user profile information for a user is often not complete and may not even be completely accurate. Sometimes users deliberately provide incorrect information for example a user may provide incorrect age in the user profile. Users may also forget to update their information when it changes. For example a user may move to a new location and forget to update the user s geographical location or a user may change jobs but forget to update their workplace description in the user profile. As a result a social networking system may infer certain profile attributes of a user such as geographic location educational institutions attended and age range by analyzing the user s connections and their declared profile information. Inferring profile attributes are further discussed in a related application Inferring User Profile Attributes from Social Information U.S. application Ser. No. 12 916 322 filed Oct. 29 2010 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Reliable information about affiliations and attributes of users is very valuable to advertisers because users are more influenced by targeted advertisements that are relevant to their affiliations and attributes. For example users who politically declare themselves as liberal are more susceptible to clicking on an advertisement for a petition for liberal causes. Meanwhile advertisements that are not targeted based on attributes of users may have low click through rates CTRs and or conversions of advertisements provided to those users. Incorrectly targeted advertisements which may include advertisements that are relevant to a particular attribute or affiliation but are not targeted to users that exhibit that attribute or affiliation results in wasted advertising spend due to the ineffective advertising. However some users may not declare their attributes and affiliations as part of their user profiles on a social networking system. As a result targeting clusters based on these attributes and affiliations may be limited in size. A social networking system may infer affiliations and or attributes of users by analyzing their social connections in the social networking system. Inferred affiliations and or attributes may then be tested based on performance testing of advertisements targeted to the users based on the inferred affiliations and or attributes.

In one embodiment all friends of the seed user in the social networking system or other users connected to the seed user are identified and analyzed by the social networking system to determine a user affiliation for each friend . In another embodiment a subset of the connections of a seed user on the social networking system may be selected using a random walk method. The social networking system may analyze the subset of the connections of a seed user to determine unknown user affiliations of the friends . A user affiliation may be determined as mentioned above by an explicit declaration in a user profile such as a user affiliation of the seed user that she is a Democrat. User affiliations also may have been inferred by the social networking system . Some user affiliations may not be known by the social networking system as a result of the associated users not providing that information to the social networking system in their user profiles. The social networking system as a result of not having information about the user affiliations of the friends may infer those user affiliations by analyzing other users connected to the friends .

For example as illustrated in a friend connected to the seed user and a friend connected to the seed user in the social networking system have unknown user affiliations and . The social networking system may have determined user affiliations and for friends and by retrieving user profiles for the friends and on the social networking system in one embodiment. In another embodiment a user affiliation may have been determined by the social networking system by inference after analyzing other users connected to the friend . User affiliation may be determined by the social networking system using similar methods.

As further illustrated in the friend connected to the seed user is connected to other users and entities in the social networking system that may be analyzed to infer the user affiliation . The friend is connected to friends of friend FOFs and as well as a page . The FOFs and have user affiliations and of Democrat Dem. while the FOF has a user affiliation of Republican Rep. . The page may have a page affiliation determined by the social networking system by analyzing users and entities connected to the page in the social networking system as well as interactions generated on the page by the users and entities. Here the page affiliation of the page is Democrat. In other embodiments other entities represented by applications events groups and custom graph objects connected to a seed user and or friends in the social networking system may have affiliations associated with them that may be used by the social networking system in determining an inference.

The social networking system may determine the user affiliation of the friend by determining the user affiliations of the FOFs as well as any page affiliations of pages connected to the friend in the social networking system that are relevant to the determination of the user affiliation . In one embodiment the social networking system may infer that the user affiliation of the friend is Democrat based on a simple majority of connections in the social networking system being Democrat. In another embodiment a scoring model may be used to determine the inference using affinity scores for the FOFs of the friend and the affinity score for the page of the friend as weights in the scoring model. In one embodiment a scoring model may be a weighted average. In another embodiment a scoring model may include various methods for predicting confidence scores using machine learning and or regression analysis. In a further embodiment a random walk method may be used to traverse a subset of all connections of a friend to determine an inference of the user affiliation of the friend . The random walk method may be useful in sampling a large number of connections to determine the inference in one embodiment.

Another method of determining an inference of a user affiliation for a friend may include inferring a particular affiliation based on a user s interaction with a page application or other entity in the social networking system where other users that interacted with the page application or other entity have the particular affiliation. Similar to determining a user affiliation for a friend the social networking system may also determine a page affiliation for a page . A page may represent an entity in the social networking system such as a celebrity entertainer like Britney Spears a cause such as VH1 Save the Music or a business such as PepsiCola. A social networking system may be able to assign a page affiliation for a page based on the user affiliations of users that interact with the page . For example if a majority of users that interact regularly with a page have a particular user affiliation such as being a Democrat then the page affiliation may be assigned that particular user affiliation in one embodiment. In other embodiments other scoring models may be used in assigning the particular user affiliation as the page affiliation for a page including weighted scoring models and prediction models that rely on machine learning and regression analysis. Using the page affiliation for a page the social networking system may determine inferences of user affiliations for users that have interacted with the page in one embodiment. As a result of a friend interacting with a page for Britney Spears that may have been assigned a page affiliation of Democrat the user affiliation for the friend may be assigned Democrat for example.

Other affiliations aside from political affiliations may be inferred by the social networking system such as user characteristics topics interests professions hobbies sports fans causes music genre fanatics and so on. For example each user of a seed cluster of users may indicate an interest or a like for one or more pages for various marathons throughout the year. This may indicate that these users in the seed cluster have a shared user characteristic of being athletic. Using the methods described above the social networking system may determine one or more inferences that other users connected to each user in the seed cluster may also share the user characteristic of being athletic. The inferred users may then be grouped into targeting clusters for advertisements related to the London Olympics. If an inferred user when presented with a targeted advertisement based on the inferred user characteristic of being athletic indicates that the targeted advertisement is not relevant not interesting offensive or otherwise provides negative feedback e.g. by clicking on an X in the advertisement that information may be used in modifying the scoring model used to determine the inference. Starting with an explicit group of users or seed cluster of users the social networking system may expand the group by inferring friends of members in the group using the methods described above.

Additionally the social networking system may infer an affiliation based on a user s interaction with a page application and or entity where other users who interacted with the same page application and or entity have that affiliation. For example a user may interact frequently with a set of pages that may be related to being athletic such as marathon pages pages for sporting goods and celebrity pages for sports figures. The level of interaction may vary such as content posts comments sharing content liking content and page views. The social networking system may determine that the majority of the users that also interact with the same pages also exhibit the user characteristic or have otherwise been affiliated through explicit affiliation or inferred affiliation of being athletic. As a result of the user s interactions with the same pages the social networking system may infer that the user is also athletic. In another embodiment a scoring model may be used to determine an affiliation of a page or entity on the social networking system based on an analysis of the users that like the page. For example a correlation may be identified that links users that like country music NASCAR racing rodeos and the Republican Party.

The user devices comprise one or more computing devices that can receive user input and can transmit and receive data via the network . In one embodiment the user device is a conventional computer system executing for example a Microsoft Windows compatible operating system OS Apple OS X and or a Linux distribution. In another embodiment the user device can be a device having computer functionality such as a personal digital assistant PDA mobile telephone smart phone etc. The user device is configured to communicate via network . The user device can execute an application for example a browser application that allows a user of the user device to interact with the social networking system . In another embodiment the user device interacts with the social networking system through an application programming interface API that runs on the native operating system of the user device such as iOS and DROID.

In one embodiment the network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. Thus the network can include links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G digital subscriber line DSL etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network can include multiprotocol label switching MPLS the transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP the User Datagram Protocol UDP the hypertext transport protocol HTTP the simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and the file transfer protocol FTP . The data exchanged over the network can be represented using technologies and or formats including the hypertext markup language HTML and the extensible markup language XML . In addition all or some of links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS and Internet Protocol security IPsec .

The web server links the social networking system via the network to one or more user devices the web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as Java Flash XML and so forth. The web server may provide the functionality of receiving and routing messages between the social networking system and the user devices for example instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS short message service messages or messages sent using any other suitable messaging technique. The user can send a request to the web server to upload information for example images or videos that are stored in the content store . Additionally the web server may provide API functionality to send data directly to native client device operating systems such as iOS DROID webOS and RIM.

The action logger is capable of receiving communications from the web server about user actions on and or off the social networking system . The action logger populates an action log with information about user actions to track them. Such actions may include for example adding a connection to the other user sending a message to the other user uploading an image reading a message from the other user viewing content associated with the other user attending an event posted by another user among others. In addition a number of actions described in connection with other objects are directed at particular users so these actions are associated with those users as well.

User account information and other related information for a user are stored in the user profile store . The user profile information stored in user profile store describes the users of the social networking system including biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history gender hobbies or preferences location and the like. The user profile may also store other information provided by the user for example images or videos. In certain embodiments images of users may be tagged with identification information of users of the social networking system displayed in an image. A user profile store maintains profile information about users of the social networking system such as age gender interests geographic location email addresses credit card information and other personalized information. The user profile store also maintains references to the actions stored in the action log and performed on objects in the content store .

Although the system has access to the users personal information contained in the user profile store the system preferably protects the users information. For example embodiments of the invention never include any personally identifiable information with the clusters. For example even if email addresses were stored in the user profile store the system may not build a cluster of users using their email address. In one embodiment the system may build a cluster of users who have active credits tied to a credit card. Accordingly while the system would avoid associating personally identifiable information with an individual user it may aggregate this information at the cluster level.

The edge store stores the information describing the connections between users. The connections are defined by users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example the connections allow users to generate relationships with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. In some embodiment the connection specifies a connection type based on the type of relationship for example family or friend or colleague. Users may select from predefined types of connections or define their own connection types as needed. The edge store acts as a cross referencing database for the user profile store and the content store to determine which objects are also being modified by connections of a user. Embodiments of the invention may also infer the relationship between two users e.g. using an affinity algorithm and use that for cluster building e.g. by building a cluster of users whose close friends have upcoming birthdays next week in which case the close friend would be identified using the coefficient value .

An inferential targeting cluster module may define seed clusters of users for inferring affiliations of other users of the social networking system connected to the users of the seed clusters. Information retrieved from user profile objects stored in the user profile store content objects stored in the content store and edge objects stored in the edge store may be used in determining seed clusters of users having a particular affiliation. The affiliation may be selected by an advertiser in real time through a targeting criteria selection user interface or may be pre selected by the social networking system as an optimization. The users that have inferred affiliations then become part of the clusters of users to continue adding to the seed clusters. The inferential targeting cluster module may also measure the performance of these clusters by analyzing user actions on advertisements that have been served to the clusters of users by the web server . Negative feedback such as an X out action that indicates the advertisement was repetitive irrelevant offensive or otherwise objectionable to the viewing user as well as positive feedback in the form of clicking through the advertisements may be used in measuring the performance of these clusters. User actions on the social networking system are recorded by the action logger .

An advertising targeting module may receive targeting criteria for advertisement requests from advertisers for targeting advertisements in the social networking system. Using inferential targeting clusters generated by the inferential targeting cluster module a targeted advertisement on the social networking system may be displayed on a user device associated with a user of a targeting cluster of users for a particular affiliation in one embodiment. Targeted advertisements may be distributed by the advertising targeting module to inferential targeting clusters of users of the social networking system such as banner advertisements social endorsements of an affiliation or user characteristic sponsored stories highlighting user generated stories related to an affiliation and so forth.

A seed user selection module gathers information about potential seed users of the social networking system to generate a seed cluster of users that share a selected affiliation interest or characteristic. In one embodiment the seed user selection module selects users that have made the selected affiliation interest or characteristic explicit on their user profiles. For example if the selected affiliation was a San Francisco Giants Fan seed users may be determined based on an explicit affiliation by the seed users such as being a fan of the San Francisco Giants page in the social networking system listing the sports team as a favorite sports team in the users profile page and so forth. Other information may be gathered by the seed user selection module including edge objects and content objects related to the selected affiliation interest or characteristic. Continuing the example content objects and edge objects related to the selected affiliation interest and or characteristic such as check in events status update mentions photo and video tags likes on other pages related to the selected affiliation and user interactions with content items such as posts comments likes and shares may be retrieved for determining whether a user may be selected as a seed user in the seed cluster of users sharing the selected affiliation interest or characteristic.

A user analysis module performs an analysis of other users connected to a seed user in the seed cluster of users to identify additional users that may share the affiliation with the seed user. As illustrated in other users connected to a seed user in the seed cluster may or may not have the selected affiliation determined by the social networking system . For those other users connected to the seed user that do not have the selected affiliation determined the user analysis module may perform an analysis on those other users to determine whether they share the affiliation with the seed user. The user analysis module may determine that connected users to a seed user in the seed cluster of users have unknown affiliations. Further user analysis would be required by the user analysis module in that case such as retrieving secondary connections or users that are connected to the connected users that have unknown affiliations. The retrieved secondary connections are then analyzed by the user analysis module to determine how many of those secondary connections share the affiliation with the seed user. A user may be analyzed for the selected affiliation based on the user s profile i.e. self declared or may be inferred to have the selected affiliation based on an analysis of edge objects and content objects related to the selected affiliation and the user and or a scoring model used to predict whether the user shares the selected affiliation.

An entity analysis module determines an analysis of connections of an entity such as a page or application on the social networking system with respect to a selected affiliation. For example users that have explicitly associated themselves or affiliated themselves with the Republican Party may comprise the majority of users that interact with an application that enables users to find the closest Land Rover dealership which sells relatively large SUVs. The entity analysis module may analyze the connections of an entity such as the users that have interacted with an application for finding the closest Land Rover dealership and determine what affiliations if any may be inferred about users that interact with the application. In this case because a majority of users that use the Land Rover application are explicitly affiliated with the Republican Party the entity analysis module may determine that the application may have an affiliation with the Republican Party such that users that interact with the application may be determined to also be affiliated with the Republican Party. In other embodiments other types of interactions with entities or a series of disparate interactions may be analyzed by the entity analysis module . For example the entity analysis module may limit analysis of connected users to those users that have installed the application have frequently used the application over a given time period by meeting a predetermined threshold number of uses and have invited other users to install the application. In this way the quality of interaction with the entity may be used to identify a particular affiliation that may be inferred to users that have performed the specific type s of interactions with the entity.

An analytical scoring module determines an analytical score for analyzing connections of a user or a page in determining whether an affiliation should be inferred for the user or the page. A scoring algorithm or scoring model may be used by the analytical scoring module to determine an analytical score for a page or a user based on the page s connections or the user s connections on the social networking system . In one embodiment the scoring model may determine whether a majority of the user s connections exhibit the affiliation explicitly or by inference. In another embodiment other factors may be included in the scoring model such as using the affinity scores of the user for the user s connections as weights in a weighted average of the user s connections exhibiting the affiliation. For example a user that has several weak connections on the social networking system that have self identified as Republicans may have less weight attributed to them than other connections that are self identified as Democrats that have stronger connections to the user as reflected by higher affinity scores.

A targeting cluster definition module generates a targeting cluster of users that share a particular affiliation. The targeting cluster may be used for targeting advertisements in one embodiment. In another embodiment the targeting cluster may be used for various optimizations in the social networking system such as targeting content items in a news feed to users based on their affiliations. In a further embodiment a targeting cluster definition module may generate a targeting cluster of users that share one or more affiliations. For example through analysis of affiliation information generated by the inferential targeting cluster module a strong correlation may be determined for users affiliated with country music also being affiliated with the Republican Party. As a result the targeting cluster definition module may determine that a target cluster definition for users affiliated with the Republican Party may include users that are affiliated with country music. In other embodiments only affiliations with certain country music artists such as Toby Keith and Hank Williams may be strongly correlated with the being affiliated with the Republican Party. Other country music artists such as the Dixie Chicks may be more affiliated with the Democrats for example.

Once the selection of an attribute is received a seed cluster is determined as the subset of users sharing the selected attribute. In one embodiment the seed cluster is determined by retrieving the user profile objects of users that have explicitly stated the selected attribute in their user profiles or self identified as having the selected attribute or affiliation. In another embodiment a seed cluster may be determined to include users that have been previously inferred to have the selected attribute or affiliation.

After the seed cluster has been determined as the subset of users sharing the selected attribute one or more primary connections of a first user in the seed cluster are retrieved . The social networking system may use the seed cluster of users to identify primary connections that may have the selected attribute or affiliation. Here primary connections may include users and non users such as entities pages and or applications. Primary connections may be retrieved by accessing the first user s user profile object in the social networking system in one embodiment. In another embodiment edge objects associated with the first user may be accessed to retrieve the primary connections of the first user in the social networking system .

Next one or more secondary connections of the first retrieved primary connection of the first user in the seed cluster is retrieved . The first retrieved primary connection of the first user in the seed cluster may be a user or a non user such as an entity a page or an application. Secondary connections may also be users and or non users of the social networking system . Similar to step secondary connections may be retrieved by accessing the first retrieved primary connection s user profile object page object or application object to retrieve the secondary connections or by accessing edge objects connected to the object representing the first retrieved primary connection in the social networking system .

Responsive to determining that the attribute is exhibited by a threshold percentage of the retrieved one or more secondary connections the social networking system may declare that the attribute is exhibited by the first retrieved primary connection. The threshold percentage may be predetermined in one embodiment. In another embodiment the threshold percentage may be any percentage over 50 . In a further embodiment the threshold percentage may be any percentage over 80 . The social networking system may declare that the attribute is exhibited by the first retrieved primary connection by associating the attribute with a user profile object a page object or an application object for the primary connection in the social networking system .

The determination that the attribute is exhibited by a threshold percentage of the retrieved one or more secondary connections may be made responsive to applying a business logic rule to the one or more secondary connections in one embodiment. Other business logic rules may be used to satisfy the determination that acts as a precondition to the social networking system declaring that the attribute is exhibited by the first retrieved primary connection. In one embodiment a business logic rule may analyze a subset of the one or more secondary connections based on affinity scores of the first retrieved primary connection for the subset of the one or more secondary connections. The social networking system may determine whether a majority that subset of secondary connections exhibit the attribute. In another embodiment the social networking system may determine whether a predetermined threshold percentage of the subset of secondary connections exhibit the attribute. In other embodiments different business logic rules may be used to establish a precondition before declaring that the attribute is exhibited by the first retrieved primary connection. For example different affiliations may be attributed to predicting a particular political affiliation such as country music fans and NASCAR fans being more affiliated with the Republican Party. As a result business logic rules may be used to implement these different affiliations into a precondition that is met for retrieved secondary connections before declaring the attribute is exhibited by the first retrieved primary connection.

Steps and are repeated for each of the remaining retrieved primary connections of the first user in the seed cluster. Steps are repeated for each of the remaining users in the seed cluster. A targeting cluster of users sharing the attribute is stored in the social networking system where the targeting cluster comprises the seed cluster and the declared one or more primary connections. In one embodiment where a connection of the declared one or more primary connections is a particular user of the social networking system the targeting cluster of users includes identifying information about that particular user. In another embodiment where a connection of the declared one or more primary connections is a non user entity of the social networking system the targeting cluster may include identifying information of the non user entity in the social networking system such that users that interact with the non user entity may be identified as possible users to target.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

