---

title: Social marketplace digital worth score
abstract: A method and system are disclosed for managing catalog resources within a social commerce environment. Users are referred by a plurality of affiliates to a social commerce marketplace system. Once referred, the users are presented with a customized social commerce storefront that is associated with an individual affiliate. Each of the customized social commerce storefronts comprises a micro catalog of purchasable products, which is a subset of a master catalog comprising a set of available products. Social data associated with the user and catalog data associated with the purchasable products is processed to generate product catalog data to the user, which is then provided to the user. The user reviews the social commerce content and selects individual purchasable products for purchase.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08554635&OS=08554635&RS=08554635
owner: Dell Products L.P.
number: 08554635
owner_city: Round Rock
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120508
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 485 767 filed May 13 2011 entitled Social Marketplace. U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 485 767 includes exemplary systems and methods and is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments of the invention relate generally to information handling systems. More specifically embodiments of the invention provide a method and system for managing catalog resources within a social commerce environment.

As the value and use of information continues to increase individuals and businesses seek additional ways to process and store information. One option available to users is information handling systems. An information handling system generally processes compiles stores and or communicates information or data for business personal or other purposes thereby allowing users to take advantage of the value of the information. Because technology and information handling needs and requirements vary between different users or applications information handling systems may also vary regarding what information is handled how the information is handled how much information is processed stored or communicated and how quickly and efficiently the information may be processed stored or communicated. The variations in information handling systems allow for information handling systems to be general or configured for a specific user or specific use such as financial transaction processing airline reservations enterprise data storage or global communications. In addition information handling systems may include a variety of hardware and software components that may be configured to process store and communicate information and may include one or more computer systems data storage systems and networking systems.

These same information handling systems have played a key role in the rapid growth of electronic commerce on the Internet. One known aspect of electronic commerce is affiliate networks which allow online merchants to reach a larger audience through participation in various affiliate programs. Typically potential customers are referred to the merchant s website from an affiliate s web site which receives a share of any resulting sale as compensation for the referral. Various affiliate network services and benefits generally include referral tracking reporting tools payment processing and access to a large base of participants. Over time affiliate networks have made progress in simplifying the process of registering affiliate participants fore or more merchant affiliate programs. However affiliates still face integration challenges when attempting to provide their users a customized subset of the merchant s website.

In recent years information handling systems have also been instrumental in the widespread adoption of social media into the mainstream of everyday life. Social media commonly refers to the use of web based technologies for the creation and exchange of user generated content for social interaction. As such it currently accounts for approximately 22 of all time spent on the Internet. More recently various aspects of social media have become an increasingly popular for enabling customer feedback and by extension have likewise evolved into a viable marketing channel for vendors. This new marketing channel sometimes referred to as social marketing has proven to not only have a higher customer retention rate than traditional marketing channels but to also provide higher demand generation lift. 

Currently social marketing is typically limited to providing a link from a social media environment to the home page of a merchant s website where a referred user can then search for a recommended product. In some cases the user may be referred to a predetermined product page or listing. However no known ability is currently available for a social marketer to refer a user to a customized subset of a merchant s products. Furthermore social marketers generally lack real time integration with the merchant s site. As a result they typically have to rely upon the merchant s traditional methods of referral tracking reporting accounting and payment processing. Moreover there is a lack of simplified integration between merchant websites affiliate networks and social media environments which pose challenges in realizing the promise of social marketing.

We provide a service to individuals SMB and enterprises that allow them to give us access to their social networks analytics to their sites site content emails and then we extract information e.g. keywords and match it up against our algorithm. Advertisements are then processed with the algorithm to generate a potential dollar worth score for their social property to get a higher SEO score ad clicks and product sales. The score will allow them to see what a site is worth if the user plans to ever buy or sell it.

A method and system are disclosed for managing catalog resources within a social commerce environment. In various embodiments users are referred by a plurality of affiliates to a social commerce marketplace system. Once referred the users are presented with a customized social commerce storefront that is associated with an individual affiliate. Each of the customized social commerce storefronts comprises a micro catalog of purchasable products which is a subset of a master catalog comprising a set of available products.

In these and other embodiments social data associated with the user and catalog data associated with the purchasable products is processed to generate product catalog data to the user which is then provided to the user. In one embodiment the product catalog data corresponds to a subset of the purchasable products. In another embodiment the product catalog data is provided to the user within a user interface UI window of a widget. In yet another embodiment the user s social data is processed to generate social graph data which in turn is processed to generate keyword and theme data. The keyword and theme data is then processed to identify a subset of the product catalog data which is then provided to the user.

In one embodiment the product catalog data is associated with a social commerce campaign. In another embodiment the product catalog data is associated with various types of social commerce content such as product reviews ratings and user blogs. In this embodiment the social commerce content is concurrently provided with the product catalog data to the user. In this and other embodiments the user reviews the social commerce content and selects individual purchasable products for purchase

A method and system are disclosed for managing catalog resources within a social commerce environment. For purposes of this disclosure an information handling system may include any instrumentality or aggregate of instrumentalities operable to compute classify process transmit receive retrieve originate switch store display manifest detect record reproduce handle or utilize any form of information intelligence or data for business scientific control or other purposes. For example an information handling system may be a personal computer a network storage device or any other suitable device and may vary in size shape performance functionality and price. The information handling system may include random access memory RAM one or more processing resources such as a central processing unit CPU or hardware or software control logic ROM and or other types of nonvolatile memory. Additional components of the information handling system may include one or more disk drives one or more network ports for communicating with external devices as well as various input and output I O devices such as a keyboard a mouse and a video display. The information handling system may also include one or more buses operable to transmit communications between the various hardware components.

In one embodiment the blog site management module is used by the plurality of affiliates to manage the posting and linking of social commerce content from the affiliate s online blog or website to the social commerce marketplace system . In another embodiment the social network management module is used by the plurality of affiliates to manage the linkages between one or more social media environments and the social commerce marketplace system . In yet another embodiment the mobile delivery management module is used by the plurality of affiliates to manage the delivery of social commerce content to a mobile device. In still another embodiment the hosting management module is used by the plurality of affiliates to manage the hosting environment s of a customized social commerce storefront associated with the affiliate and the merchant. In one embodiment the social commerce management module is used by the plurality of affiliates to perform social commerce management operations as described in greater detail herein. In yet another embodiment the marketing management module is used by the plurality of affiliates to perform social commerce marketing operations as likewise described in greater detail herein.

In various embodiments the plurality of merchant network management modules are accessed and used by a plurality of merchant administrators . In these and other embodiments the plurality of merchant network management modules comprises a merchant network management module and a social commerce moderation module . Likewise the plurality of merchant network management modules comprises a social commerce reporting module a targeting module and an incentives module .

In one embodiment the merchant network management module is used by is used by the plurality of merchant administrators to manage a plurality of affiliate social commerce storefronts and a plurality of affiliate networks . In another embodiment the moderation management module is used by the plurality of merchant administrators to monitor and moderate social commerce content and associated social media content related to the plurality of affiliates . In yet another embodiment the social commerce reporting module is used by the plurality of merchant administrators to administer and deliver a plurality of social commerce reports as described in greater detail herein. In one embodiment the targeting module is used by the plurality of merchant administrators to perform targeted advertising and promotion operations familiar to those of skill in the art and described in greater detail herein. In another embodiment the incentives module is used by the plurality of merchant administrators to manage the accounting and payment of incentives to the plurality of affiliates as compensation for referring customers to the merchant. As described in greater detail herein the plurality of social commerce affiliate management modules and the plurality of merchant network management modules may include additional modules and the foregoing is not intended to limit the spirit scope or intent of the invention.

Referring now to a plurality of users such as customers are referred by a plurality of affiliate networks to the social commerce marketplace system as described in greater detail. Once referred the customers are presented with a customized social commerce storefront that is associated with an individual affiliate of the plurality of affiliates and the merchant. In various embodiments each of the customized social commerce storefronts comprises a micro catalog of purchasable products which is a subset of a master catalog comprising a set of available products. In these and other embodiments and as likewise described in greater detail herein the customized social commerce storefronts comprise social commerce content related to the purchasable products. In these various embodiments the customers review the social commerce content and select individual purchasable products for purchase. Once selected an online purchase transaction familiar to skilled practitioners of the art is completed with the merchant online cart checkout system .

Likewise the application layer comprises host environments which in turn comprise a tenancy management module a product catalog management module and a product search module . The host environments likewise comprise a stores management module a commission management module and a caching module . Likewise the host environments comprise an auditing module a notifications module a search engine optimization SEO module a security management module a moderation management module and other modules as described in greater detail herein.

In one embodiment the tenancy management module is used by merchant administrators to manage a plurality of affiliate tenancies in a virtual environment. In another embodiment the product catalog management module is used to manage available products in a master catalog and purchasable products which are subsets of the available products in micro catalogs as described in greater detail herein. In yet another embodiment the product search module is used with various other modules in the initiation provisioning and management of affiliate storefronts. In still another embodiment the commission management module is used to track account and pay commissions to affiliates as compensation for referring customers to the merchant. In one embodiment the caching module is used to cache social commerce content and other data related to conducting social commerce operations.

In another embodiment the auditing module is used to audit social commerce transactions that are performed within the social commerce marketplace system. In yet another embodiment the notifications module is use to manage notifications to affiliates as well as users referred by the affiliates to the social commerce marketplace system. In still another embodiment the SEO module is used to perform SEO operations known to skilled practitioners of the art. In this embodiment the SEO operations as described in greater detail herein are performed to optimize the identification of a purchasable product according to the search terms used by either an affiliate or a user of a social media environment. In one embodiment the security module is used to maintain the security of the social commerce marketplace system. In another embodiment the moderation module is used to monitor and moderate social commerce content and associated social media content related to a plurality of affiliates. In yet another embodiment the other modules comprise additional modules as described in greater detail herein that operate within the host environments .

In various embodiments the presentation layer comprises a Representational State Transfer REST application program interface API known to skilled practitioners of the art. In these and other embodiments the presentation layer likewise comprises a controller module a presentation model a presentation view and a plurality of administration and affiliate storefront sites. In these various embodiments the controller module interacts with the presentation model and presentation view which likewise interact with each other to present different aspects of the plurality of administration and affiliate storefront sites. Likewise the presentation view module provides feedback to the controller module .

Referring now to the presentation layer comprises manager classes and the application layer comprises domain services. The manager classes provide presentation layer data to the service contracts module which is then used for the management of the domain service . In turn the domain services provide application layer data to the repository contracts module where it is used for the management of the repository classes . Likewise the service contracts module and the repository contracts module are managed and bounded by a dependencies module . In turn the dependencies module is managed with the logging caching and auditing management modules.

In one embodiment the social media store management module is used to manage a social commerce storefront that is associated with an affiliate s presence and activities within a social media environment. In another embodiment the affiliate storefront management module is used to manage a social commerce storefront that is associated with an affiliate s web site or online blog. In yet another embodiment the blog management module is used to manage an affiliate s blog activities as it relates to social commerce activities processes and operations as described in greater detail herein. In still another embodiment as likewise described in greater detail herein the templates management module is used for the automated configuration of social commerce storefront pages. In one embodiment the notifications management module is used for the management of notifications to affiliates and users associated with affiliates such as users of an affiliate s online social commerce presence. In various embodiments the affiliate s online presence may comprise a blog a website or a community of interest or conversation thread in a social media environment. In another embodiment the URL management module is used to manage URL links between the host environments and the affiliate s various online social commerce presences.

In yet another embodiment the content management module further comprises articles podcast pictures and video management sub modules. In this and other embodiments the articles podcast pictures and video management sub modules are used by affiliates to manage their respective associated content as it relates to social commerce operations. In still another embodiment the reputation management module comprises points badges activity and score management sub modules. In this and other embodiments the reputation management module comprises points badges activity and score management sub modules are used by the merchant to manage reputation data associated with affiliates. As used herein reputation data refers to data associated with social commerce activities performed by an affiliate. As an example an affiliate may receive points from a merchant for each item of social commerce content they product. Likewise badges may be awarded upon achievement of various point tiers or frequency of activity. Likewise each social commerce content item may receive a score that is associated with the achievement of the points and badges. It will be appreciated that many such examples are possible and the foregoing is not intended to limit the spirit scope or intent of the invention.

In one embodiment the SEO management module comprises backlinks rank competition search application program interface API keyword density keyword placement keyword insertion and content comparison management sub modules. In this and other embodiments the various sub modules of the SEO management module are used by affiliates and the merchants to perform SEO operations familiar to those of skill in the art. As an example the backlinks management sub module may be used to determine prior web site locations that a user has visited prior to being referred to an affiliate s social commerce storefront. Likewise the rank management sub module may be used to determine the search engine rank assigned to the affiliate s social commerce storefront as well as the individual search engine ranking of the search terms that resulted in the referral. As another example the competition management sub module may be used by the merchant to rank the search engine popularity of their competitors or alternatively the frequency that a competitor s web site is returned as a result of a search by a user of a social media environment. Likewise the search API management sub module may be used by the merchant and affiliates alike to gain access to various search engines in order to receive search metadata. As yet another example the keyword density placement and insertion management sub modules may likewise be used by the merchant and the affiliates to optimize searches through the use of predetermined keywords within related social commerce content. As still another example the content comparison sub module may be used to compare various items of social commerce content to determine which items perform better than others during SEO operations.

In another embodiment the catalog management module comprises filter search price taxonomy import differential categories and deals management sub modules. In this and other embodiments the filter search price taxonomy import differential categories and deals management sub modules are used by the affiliate for managing their social commerce storefronts. For example the filter search price differential deals and import management sub modules may be used individually or in combination to identify and populate a set of purchasable products within a micro catalog from a set of available products contained in a master catalog. Likewise the taxonomy and categories management sub modules may be used to understand the interrelationship of various purchasable products and how they are categorized within the affiliate s social commerce storefront. It will be appreciated that many such examples are possible and the foregoing is not intended to limit the spirit scope or intent of the invention.

In yet another embodiment the links management module comprises network and system management sub modules which are used to manage the linkages between the various systems modules and sub modules of the social commerce marketplace system and various affiliate and advertising networks. In still another embodiment the web analytics module comprises web crawling listening and analytics management sub modules. In this and other embodiments the web crawling listening and analytics management sub modules are used by the merchant to perform web analytics operations familiar to skilled practitioners of the art. As an example the merchant may use the web crawling management sub module to perform web crawling operations to discover conversation threads associated with its products. Once discovered the listening management sub module may be used to monitor the conversations threads which are then analyzed with the analytics management sub module to determine their relevance and possible effect on social commerce operations. Those of skill in the art will be knowledgeable of many such examples. Accordingly the foregoing is not intended to limit the spirit scope or intent of the invention.

In one embodiment the fraud management module comprises an abuse reporting traffic links Internet Protocol IP and dashboard management sub modules. In this and other embodiments the abuse reporting traffic links Internet Protocol IP and dashboard management sub modules are used by the merchant to identify mitigate and prevent fraudulent behavior within the social commerce market place system. As an example the traffic links and IP management sub modules may be used to identify the source of fraudulent behavior. Once identified it may be reported by the abuse reporting management sub module and then displayed for review within a user interface by the dashboard sub module.

In another embodiment the payment module comprises a traffic payment 1099 Form buyers and payment processor management sub modules. In this and other embodiments the traffic payment 1099 buyers and payment processor management sub modules are used by the merchant for the management of payment to affiliates. As an example the buyers and traffic management sub modules may be used to identify individual buyers and the traffic they generate at an affiliate s social commerce storefront. In turn the payment and payment processor sub modules may be used to track the payments made by the buyers which are then processed by various payment processors. Likewise the same sub modules may be used to track commission payments made by the merchant to individual affiliates. The output of those sub modules may then be processed by the 1099 Form sub module for managing reporting of the commission payments to the affiliate to the Internal Revenue Service IRS .

In yet another embodiment the administration module comprises companies target users roles deals moderation profile and email management sub modules. In this embodiment the companies target users roles deals moderation profile and email management sub modules are used by the merchant to administer the various users of the social commerce marketplace system. As an example the target management sub module may be used individually or in conjunction with the target users profile and roles management sub modules to identify specific users of a social media environment. Once identified their social media interactions may be monitored by the moderation management sub module and in turn the email and deals management sub modules may be used individually or in combination to target predetermined users.

In still another embodiment the reports module comprises traffic abuse traffic search engines users content status and competitors reporting sub modules. In this embodiment the traffic abuse traffic search engines users content status and competitors reporting sub modules are used by the merchant to generate various reports related to social commerce operations which in turn may be provided to an affiliate. As an example the content status reporting sub module may report on the status of various items of social commerce content and the search engines reporting sub module may report on the search results it generates. In turn the traffic reporting sub module may be used to report on the social commerce traffic resulting from the search results and the users reporting sub module may provide reports related to the various users referred to the social commerce site. Likewise the traffic abuse reporting sub module may be used to report on various traffic abuses related to the social commerce marketplace system while the competitors reporting sub module may provide reports related to competitive activity from competitors.

In various embodiments the widgets module may comprise web crawling keyword analysis analytics widget manager data semantic analysis catalog management scoring hot spots manager sentiment analysis keyword widget social keyword widget API recommendations engine social score widget and in line links widget sub modules. In one embodiment the web crawling sub module is implemented to perform web crawling operations to discover keywords within webpages. In another embodiment the keyword analysis sub module is implemented to determine related keywords competition of keywords search frequency of keywords and locality of keywords. In yet another embodiment the analytics sub module is implemented to provide the utilization of widgets by visitors. In still another embodiment the widget manager sub module is implemented to provide a set of user interfaces to configure and publish a widget. In various embodiments the widget manager sub module is implemented to provide templates that comprise user interface UI themes and interactions that determine the end user experience. In these and other embodiments the widget manager sub module comprises a wizard that provides a multi step process to configure the widget. In one embodiment the widget manager sub module comprises a dashboard providing a UI to access the wizard embed associated programming code and generate related reports.

In one embodiment the data sub module is implemented to process social graph user and catalog data. In another embodiment the semantic analysis sub module is implemented to semantically extract keywords topics people and places from strings of text. In another embodiment the catalog sub module is implemented with a widget to process catalog data. In yet another embodiment the hot spots manager sub module comprises a set of user interfaces to configure and publish images and videos that contain hot spots. In still another embodiment the sentiment analysis sub module is implemented to extract positive neutral and negative tone from strings of text. In one embodiment the page keyword widget sub module is implemented to provide a widget that automatically matches catalog products to the context of keywords extracted from a webpage. In another embodiment the social keyword widget sub module is implemented to provide a widget that automatically matches catalog products to a user s context by matching keywords and themes from their social graph. In yet another embodiment the API sub module is implemented to provide an API between a widget and various operating environments. In still another embodiment the recommendation engine sub module is implemented to automatically select or recommend objects that best match the user s context based on a set of algorithms. In one embodiment the social score widget sub module is implemented to provide a widget that dynamically presents catalog products and discounts according to a user s social score. In yet another embodiment the in line links widget sub module is implemented to provide a widget that automatically creates in line hyperlinks within text strings based on keywords that match objects from a catalog. It will be appreciated that many such embodiments are possible and the foregoing is not intended to limit the spirit scope or intent of the invention.

In various embodiments the campaign management module comprises campaigns offers data catalog scoring goals social graph recommendations engine publisher testing traffic scheduler and interactions management sub modules.

In one embodiment the campaigns management sub module is used to create schedule and manage on line marketing campaigns that drive traffic to an affiliate s websites blogs and social media networks. In another embodiment the campaigns management sub module is used to create an email marketing campaign. In yet another embodiment the campaigns management sub module is used to create dynamic landing web pages using behavioral targeting approaches to determine which content layout and calls to action to present to each visitor. In still another embodiment the campaigns management sub module is used to post offers to users accounts e.g. walls within social networking sites such as Facebook . In another embodiment the campaigns management sub module is used to post content and offers via social sites like Twitter . In yet another embodiment the campaigns management sub module is used to select the landing page that campaign recipients will visit when they click through an offer e.g. by an email tweet Facebook post etc. .

In another embodiment the offers management sub module is used to select predetermined products and services from one or more catalogs . The selected products are then presented to a campaign recipient. In yet another embodiment the data management sub module is used to select the delivery medium of a campaign such as email search marketing display ad or social media. In yet another embodiment the data management sub module is used to select the content and creative assets that are displayed to users that view or otherwise respond to the campaign. In yet another embodiment the offers management sub module is used to select the delivery end points e.g. Facebook Twitter etc. that the campaign will be transported through to reach the intended user s .

In yet another embodiment the data management sub module is used to select the list of users that are targeted to receive a predetermined campaign. In still another embodiment the data management sub module is used to select the segment of users that are targeted to receive a targeted campaign. In yet another embodiment the data management sub module is used to store and manage the data collected from the recipients of the campaign via the interactions management sub module. In yet another embodiment the data management sub module is used to store and manage the versions of landing pages e.g. their respective content layout style etc. that are used presented to users. In yet another embodiment the data management sub module is used to store and manage user s social graph information.

In still another embodiment the catalog management sub module is used to select which products to include in the campaign s offers. In yet another embodiment the catalog management sub module is used to select which merchants to include in the campaign s offers.

In one embodiment the scoring management sub module is used to select a list of targeted campaign recipients by using various algorithms to calculate the economic value of each recipient which is then ranked. In yet another embodiment the scoring management sub module is used to select a list of targeted recipients by using various algorithms to calculate the social influence of each recipient which is then ranked to determine the prioritized order of which recipients receive the campaign. In still another embodiment the scoring management sub module is used to select a list of targeted recipients by using various algorithms to calculate the conversion uplift of similar segments and similar campaigns within a predetermined group of accounts which are then rank ordered.

In another embodiment the goals management sub module is used to create the success criteria that campaigns will be measured against. In yet another embodiment the goals management sub module is used to measure the response to the campaign against predefined business goals e.g. success criteria to determine the success of the campaign. In still another embodiment the goals management sub module is used to measure the interactions rates and success criteria for a specific channel e.g. a delivery medium such as Facebook email etc. . In yet another embodiment the goals management sub module is used compare a campaign s success rate s against averages across a predetermined group of accounts. In yet another embodiment the goals management sub module is used to suggest combinations of campaigns and offers that are likely to meet the success criteria based upon a predetermined group of accounts. In various embodiments the business goals and success criteria may include email click through rates landing page conversion rates traffic volume to a predetermined landing page mentions and re tweets purchases average order value revenue leads and so forth. It will be appreciated that many such business goals and success criteria are possible and the foregoing is not intended to limit the spirit or scope of the invention.

In yet another embodiment the social graph management sub module is used to pull a campaign recipient s data from one or more social networks e.g. Facebook Twitter Google via APIs such that it can be used by the scoring management sub module to determine which users should receive the campaign.

In still another embodiment the recommendation engine sub module utilizes algorithms to dynamically select which offers provided by the offers management sub module e.g. products etc. each campaign recipient should be presented within their respective landing pages to increase the likelihood of uplift. In yet another embodiment the recommendation engine sub module utilizes algorithms to select which data provided by the data management sub module e.g. landing page layout content etc. each campaign recipient should be presented within their respective landing pages to increase the likelihood of uplift. In still another embodiment the recommendation engine sub module is used to suggest what campaigns and offers an account should consider using to meet success criteria goals provided by the goals management sub module.

In one embodiment the publisher management sub module is used to select when campaign interactions provided by the interactions management sub module are to be made available to campaign recipients. In yet another embodiment the publisher management sub module is used with the recommendation engine management sub module to select a publishing schedule of interactions provided by the interactions management sub module that would result in a higher likelihood of meeting or exceeding goals success criteria goals provided by the goals management sub module. In yet another embodiment the publisher management sub module is used to select which landing pages will be published to the Internet and made available to campaign recipients according to a schedule provided by the scheduler management sub module.

In another embodiment the testing management sub module is used to randomly present different combinations of interactions offers and data to campaign recipients in order to determine which combination results in the highest attainment of predetermined goals. In yet another embodiment the testing management sub module is used to present different combinations of interactions offers and data to predetermined segments of campaign recipients to determine which combination results in the highest attainment of predetermined goals. In another embodiment the testing management sub module provides users the ability to change or select predetermined versions of content elements within regions of published webpage to test from within the context of the webpage using standard web browsers. In yet another embodiment the testing management sub module is used to select a statistical confidence interval used by the social commerce marketplace system to determine a winning combination of interactions offers and data.

In yet another embodiment the traffic management sub module is used in conjunction with the testing management sub module to select the amount and frequency of traffic to direct to a predetermined combination of interactions offers and data to control the presentation of campaigns to visitors.

In still another embodiment the scheduler management sub module is used to determine when recipients will be exposed to a campaign and the frequency of follow up interactions. In another embodiment the scheduler management sub module is used to determine when landing pages will be published and unpublished for a predetermined campaign. In yet another embodiment the scheduler management sub module is used to determine when offers will be published and unpublished for a predetermined campaign.

In one embodiment the interactions management sub module is implemented as an instance of the user interface UI within a predetermined channel for a predetermined campaign recipient e.g. an offer in combination with an end point . In one embodiment the interactions management sub module is used to record individual recipient engagements with a campaign to capture data e.g. when which end point did the user click through an offer did the user convert etc. that the goals management sub module uses to determine whether the business goals have been met or exceeded.

In various embodiments the web optimization module comprises web crawling analytics data catalog scoring sentiment analysis social graph recommendations engine offers publisher testing ratings reviews social shopping listening and traffic management sub modules.

In one embodiment the web crawling management sub module is used to capture a website s page content layouts creative assets and calls to action. In another embodiment the web crawling management sub module is used with the recommendation engine and testing management sub modules to recommend content to use within webpages that have been statistically proven to increase uplift for the source site. In yet another embodiment the web crawling management sub module is used to crawl the Internet and social network sites for product ratings and reviews.

In another embodiment the analytics management sub module is used to capture the visitor click stream data that is used by the recommendations engine management sub module to determine which content layout and calls to action are most likely to result in increased visitor engagement e.g. amount of time on site page views etc. and conversions.

In yet another embodiment the data management sub module is used to retrieve prior purchase history information for a visitor which in turn is used by the recommendation engine management sub module to determine which content layout and calls to action are most likely to result in increased visitor engagement e.g. time on site page views etc. and a conversion event for the current site visitor or other visitors with similar characteristics. In yet another embodiment the data management sub module is used to retrieve current temporal information and end user device information for a visitor which in turn is used by the recommendation engine management sub module to determine which content layout and calls to action are most likely to result in increased visitor engagement e.g. time on site page views etc. and a conversion event for the current site visitor or other visitors with similar characteristics.

In still another embodiment the catalog management sub module is used to select which products and offers to present to a visitor as determined by the recommendation engine management sub module that are most likely to result in increased visitor engagement e.g. time on site page views etc. or a conversion event.

In one embodiment the scoring management sub module is used to determine the social influence of a visitor such that the recommendations engine management sub module is able to determine which content e.g. products and offers layouts and calls to action to present to the user that is most likely to result in increased visitor engagement time on site page views or a conversion event for a calculated social influence score. In yet another embodiment the scoring management sub module is used with the sentiment analysis management sub module to calculate trends of topics and products that are then provided as recommendations to users to include within their websites to capitalize upon the trend.

In another embodiment the sentiment analysis management sub module is used to analyze the tone of a website page blog content or social post to determine the positive neutral or negative tonality about the topics within the content. The sentiment analysis management sub module then aggregates tonality analysis across multiple sites social posts social networks etc. to identify market trends for products and services. In turn the recommendation engine management sub module recommends products to merchandize in order to capitalize upon the market trends. In another embodiment the sentiment analysis management sub module is used to identify customer support product and service satisfaction issues for the website owner to remedy. In another embodiment the sentiment analysis management sub module is used with the social graph management sub module to determine positive topics of interest for a user and their network of users which are then used to target predetermined content and products that match the users topics of interest.

In yet another embodiment the social graph management sub module is used to retrieve visitor social data and social relationship data such that the recommendation engine management sub module can determine which content e.g. products and offers layouts and calls to action to present to the user that are most likely to result in increased visitor engagement e.g. time on site page views etc. or a conversion event based upon the users social graph information. It another embodiment the social graph management sub module processes a user s social graph data to match it with other users that have similar social graph characteristics.

In still another embodiment the recommendation engine management sub module is used to determine which content e.g. products and offers layouts and calls to action to present to the user that are most likely to result in increased visitor engagement e.g. time on site page views etc. or a conversion event. In this and other embodiments the recommendation engine management sub module uses inputs from the analytics data catalog social graph and scoring management sub modules as inputs into an algorithm for the afore mentioned operations.

In one embodiment the offers management sub module is used to select which products and offers to present to a user that are most likely to result in increased engagement e.g. time on site and conversions . In another embodiment the offers management sub module is used to match the highest rated products as found by the web crawler management sub module with products from the catalog management sub module to present to a user.

In another embodiment the publisher management sub module is used to schedule the automatic publishing and un publishing of web pages. In yet another embodiment the publisher management sub module is used to schedule the automatic publishing and un publishing of products provided by the catalog management sub module within predetermined web pages. In still another embodiment the publisher management sub module is used to schedule the automatic publishing and un publishing of content variations within predetermined webpages to keep the website fresh.

In yet another embodiment the testing management sub module is used to randomly present different combinations of data page layout content and visual style within webpages to visitors to determine which combination results in the highest level of engagement e.g. time on site or conversions . In another embodiment the testing management sub module provides users the ability to change or select predetermined versions of content elements within regions of a published webpage in order to use standard web browsers to directly test from within the context of the webpage. In yet another embodiment the testing management sub module is used to select the statistical confidence interval the social commerce marketplace system used to determine a winning combination of data page layout content and visual style to automatically publish the winning version to the webpage.

In still another embodiment the ratings management sub module is used to dynamically select which product ratings format to display to the user that is most likely to result in higher engagement for the visitor. In another embodiment the ratings management sub module is used to select which products to display within a web page based upon the correlation between the products ratings and user click through rates. In yet another embodiment the ratings management sub module is used to identify trends in product ratings to recommend when to add or remove a predetermined product or class of products from a website to optimize engagement.

In one embodiment the reviews management sub module is used to dynamically select which product reviews format to display to the user that is most likely to result in higher engagement for the visitor. In another embodiment the reviews management sub module is used to select which products to display within a web page based upon the correlation between the products reviews and user click through rates. In yet another embodiment the reviews management sub module is used to identify trends in product reviews to recommend when to add or remove a predetermined product or class of products from a website to optimize engagement. The reviews management sub module uses the sentiment analysis management sub module to determine positive neutral or negative sentiment towards a specific product. In still another embodiment the reviews management sub module uses the predictive scoring management sub module to determine the direction and magnitude of market trends for each product managed by the catalog management sub module.

In another embodiment the social shopping management sub module implements JavaScript into third party website pages to display user interface UI controls next to products that list users in their social network that have indicated in their social network e.g. Facebook that they own the product. In another embodiment the social shopping management sub module shows which users within their social network have visited the webpage and when. In another embodiment the social shopping management sub module displays a list of individuals within their social network that have used the same referring search keyword term that the user used to reach the webpage. In yet another embodiment the social shopping management sub module lists individuals and their associated content that have expressed an opinion about the product within their social networks e.g. ratings reviews mentions etc. .

In yet another embodiment the listening management sub module is used with the crawling management sub module to find specific information on websites and within social network sites matching products with a catalog managed by the catalog management sub module. In another embodiment the listening management sub module provides users with content ideas content fragments and user interface designs to consider using within their websites based upon content collected by the web crawler management sub module. In yet another embodiment the listening management sub module searches for social network mentions e.g. Twitter tweets or Facebook wall posts and provides them to the sentiment analysis management sub module to identify positive content that the recommendations engine management sub module uses to recommend which products to merchandize.

In still another embodiment the traffic management sub module is used in conjunction with testing management sub module to select the amount and frequency of traffic to direct to a specific combination of data layout content and calls to action to control the presentation of webpage user interfaces to visitors.

In one embodiment the storefront valuation management module is used to assess the monetary value of a social commerce storefront described in greater detail herein. In this and other embodiments the storefront valuation management module comprises a digital worth scoring sub module a social commerce valuation sub module a social commerce comparison sub module and a storefront valuation sub module. In one embodiment the digital worth scoring sub module is used to generate an aggregate digital worth score for the owner of the storefront and the individual social media relationships within the owner s social graph. As used herein a digital worth score refers to a numeric value or set of values derived from the level of social influence a social media user is capable of exerting upon a predetermined market segment.

In another embodiment the social commerce valuation module processes the aggregate digital worth score generated by the digital worth scoring sub module social site history associated with user s within the owner s social network forecasted traffic rates associated with the value of the target social commerce storefront s key words the value of its merchandize and services and corresponding advertising to generate a social commerce valuation value. In yet another embodiment the digital worth comparison sub module is used to identify social commerce storefronts each of which has a respective social commerce valuation value that are comparable to the target social commerce storefront. In still another embodiment the storefront valuation sub module processes the respective social commerce valuation values of the target and comparable social commerce storefronts to generate a potential monetary value of the target social commerce storefront.

The affiliate then views their social commerce storefront in step followed by a determination being made in step whether to add an additional product. If so then the process is continued proceeding with step . Otherwise an article related to one or more of the purchasable products is written in step and then posted to the affiliate s social commerce storefront. The ongoing sales results of the affiliate s social commerce storefront is then tracked in step as well as the ongoing ranking of its performance relative to other affiliate social commerce storefronts in step . Ongoing conversion of organic searches resulting in sale is likewise tracked in step followed by affiliate social commerce initiation operations being ended in step .

However if it is determined in step that enterprises do not elect to accept the SEO content or if they do so in step then a determination is made in step whether other affiliates elect to accept the SEO content for online publication. If so then ongoing operations are performed by affiliates in step to accept the SEO content for publication in step . For example another affiliate may elect to publish SEO content that is complementary to content they generate themselves. However if it is determined in step that other affiliates do not elect to accept the SEO content or if they do so in step then ongoing operations are performed in step for enterprises affiliates or both to post a bounty i.e. an offer for compensation for content creation. Thereafter ongoing operation are performed in step to track authors the content they generate their corresponding reputation ratings and the monetary value they receive as compensation for providing the content. Content syndication operations are then ended in step .

A SKU categorization file is then generated in step followed by the addition of a SKU category column to the SKU categorization file in step . Then in step target product catalog data feeds are consolidated into batches for processing. The consolidated product catalog data is processed to identify products that have neither a MTN nor a GTIN MPN GTIN . Catalog product data is then selected for processing in step followed by a determination being made in step whether the selected catalog product data comprises MPN GTIN data. If so then a products crawler system such as a web crawler system familiar to those of skill in the art is accessed and the selected catalog product data is inputted in step . The products crawler then performs a search in step for the MPN GTIN associated with the selected product data. It will be appreciated by those of skill in the art that in various embodiments the product crawler may be implemented to crawl web pages sites and other data repositories residing on the Internet at large private and proprietary data repositories or both.

A determination is then made in step whether the product crawler has identified additional product data corresponding to the MPN GTIN associated with the selected product data. If so then a determination is made in step whether only one product category is listed for the MPN GTIN. If not then a determination is made in step whether the product category is listed within the master product catalog. If so then the product crawler selects the first product category out of a set of listed categories in step . Thereafter or if it was determined in step that only one product category was listed the product crawler selects the first search result. Then in step the product crawler captures all required details from product content associated with the link to the first search result. The product crawler then matches the captured MPN GTIN to the MPN GTIN returned in the product crawler search in step followed by making a determination in step whether the product details between the two MPN GTIN are similar. If not or if it was determined in step that the MPN GTIN was not available or in step that the product crawler did not find a MPN GTIN or in step that a product category was not listed then the product data is sorted on the basis of merchant category and product brand. Then in step a merchant category is selected followed by selecting the first product brand in the selected merchant category.

A determination is then made in step whether the product brand in the selected merchant category is blank e.g. generic not specified etc. . If so then a check is performed in step with the associated product image specifications and product details to ascertain a product brand for each SKU with a blank product brand. A determination is then made in step whether the product brand can be verified. If not then the SKU category within the SKU categorization file is assigned a value of uncategorized and the process is continued proceeding with step . Otherwise or if it was determined in step that the product brand was not blank then for each product brand under the merchant category a category assigned by an automated process is used as a benchmark and to initialize manual categorization for unmapped products in step . The benchmark category for the product brand is then assigned in step as the category for SKUs in the SKU categorization file.

However if it was determined in step that the product details between the two MPN GTIN are not similar then the product crawler sets the first category as the category for the GTIN in the SKU categorization file. Thereafter or after the benchmark category for the product brand has been assigned in step then the product data is sorted based on merchant category in step . Then in step one merchant category at a time is selected with a final merchant category being assigned within the master catalog based on the least common category applicable for all SKUs within that merchant and merchant category pair. The product data is then populated in the master catalog followed by a determination in step whether to end product categorization operations. If not then the process is continued proceeding with step . Otherwise product categorization operations are ended in step .

A determination is then made in step whether the URL associated with the selected product offer is broken. If so then the product offer is automatically or manually rejected in step and the process is continued proceeding with step . Otherwise a determination is made in step whether all MPN GTIN fields in the product offer are blank. If so then the product offer is automatically or manually rejected in step and the process is continued proceeding with step . Otherwise in step the product offer is entered into a work scheduler a master catalog URL is created the product offer is assigned to a moderator for auditing and a moderation page is opened in a separate browser window for the assigned moderator.

The assigned moderator then initiates the audit of an assigned product offer in step followed by a determination being made in step whether the title brand manufacturer or MPN GTIN fields contain profanity. If so then the product offer is automatically or manually rejected in step and the process is continued proceeding with step . Otherwise a determination is made in step whether the brand in the product offer title is different than the brand referenced within the product offer itself If so then the product offer is automatically or manually rejected in step and the process is continued proceeding with step . Otherwise a determination is made in step whether the manufacturer in the product offer title is different than the brand referenced within the product offer itself. If so then the product offer is automatically or manually rejected in step and the process is continued proceeding with step .

Otherwise a determination is made in step whether the product image associated with the product offer passes image checks. As an example the product image may not pass the image check if it contains pornography nudity or profanity. As another example the product image may not pass the image check if shows a product that is different than a product described within the title of the product offer or within the product offer itself. If it is determined in step that the product offer image does not pass the image checks then the product offer image is marked as not passed in step . Thereafter or if it was determined in step that the product offer image passed the image checks then a determination is made in step whether the GTIN of the product offer is different than the GTIN of the product itself. If so then a search is performed in step using GTIN MPN and manufacturer name as search criteria to perform the search in the master catalog.

A determination is then made in step whether the search yielded an applicable product. If so then the product data associated with the applicable product is used in step to replace i.e. switch the product data associated with the product offer. The process is then continued proceeding with step . However if it was determined in step that the search did not yield an applicable product then a search is performed in step using the MPN GTIN manufacturer name and the title of the product offer as search criteria. A determination is then made in step whether the search yielded an applicable product. If not the product offer data feed is queried in step to determine the Global Unique Identifier GUID associated with the product offer. The GUID is then used to perform a search of the master product catalog and the process is then continued proceeding with step .

However if it is determined in step that the search yields an applicable product then a new product is created in the master catalog in step and populated with the details associated with the product offer. Any information specific to the merchant vendor or other source of the product offer is then removed from the new product listing in step . A determination is then made in step whether the product image associated with the new product listing is specific to the merchant vendor or other source of the product offer. If so then the product image associated with the product offer is marked as unavailable in step . Thereafter or if the product image associated with the new product listing is not specific to the merchant vendor or other source of the product offer the process is continued proceeding with step .

However if it is determined in step that the GTIN of the product offer is not different from the GTIN of the product itself then a determination is made in step whether the product GTIN contains profanity. If so then the process is continued proceeding with step . Otherwise a determination is made in step whether the MPN manufacturer name or product brand in the product offer is the same as the product itself. If not then a determination is made in step whether any related product offers are mapped to the product itself. If so then a determination is made in step whether the MPN manufacturer name or product brand in the product offer contains profanity. If so then the process is continued proceeding with step . Otherwise an edit function is implemented in step to manually or automatically delete the profanity from MPN manufacturer name or product brand in the product offer and the process is continued proceeding with step . However if it is determined in step that no other product offers are mapped to the product itself then the product detail is manually or automatically edited in step to have the same MPN manufacturer name or product brand as the other product offer.

Thereafter or if it is determined in step that the MPN manufacturer name or product brand in the product offer is the same as the product itself a determination is made in step whether the manufacturer name or product brand contains profanity. If so then the product offer is either manually or automatically edited in step to have the same product brand and manufacturer name as in the related product offer or any identified profanity is deleted. Thereafter or if is determined in step that there is no profanity in the manufacturer name or product brand then a determination is made in step whether the product image associated with the product offer is marked not passed. If so then an unavailable image is selected in step as the product image. Otherwise a determination is made in step whether the product image passes image checks. If not then a product offer image is selected in step as the product image in the master catalog or alternatively an unavailable image is selected if the product offer image has merchant related text. Otherwise or once the product offer images have respectively selected in steps or the product offer is approved in step . A determination is then made in step whether to end product moderation operations. If not then the process is continued proceeding with step . Otherwise product moderation operations are ended in step .

A determination is then made in step whether to create an offer for the affiliate s friends family or associates. If so then ongoing operations are performed in step to create the offer. In various embodiments the offer is created for an individual a subset or a grouping of the friends family and associates. In one embodiment the offer is created according to search terms used by individual social media users within the friends family or associates. In another embodiment the offer is created according to prior purchases made by individual social media users within the friends family or associates. In yet another embodiment the offer is created according to social commerce content that individual social media users within the friends family or associates have accessed. In still another embodiment the offer is created according to social commerce data associated with the affiliate s social commerce storefront. In this and other embodiments the social commerce data is provided to the affiliate by the merchant. Those of skill in the art will recognize that many such embodiments are possible and the foregoing is not intended to limit the spirit scope or intent of the invention.

However if it is decided not to create an offer in step or if the offer is created in step then ongoing operations are performed in step to display current and prior offers in line within a social media environment to predetermined friends family and associates. Ongoing operations are then performed in line by users e.g. friends family and associates of a social media environment to purchase products associated with the offers in step . In step ongoing operations are performed to process the user s search term browsing purchase transaction and other historical data to generate product recommendations which are then displayed in line within the social media environments to the users in step . In one embodiment the product recommendation comprises a promotional offer. Ongoing operations are then performed by the users in step to purchase the recommended products in line within the social media environments and social commerce recommendation operations are ended in step .

In these and other embodiments the offer or recommendation is created for an individual a subset or a grouping of friends family and associates. In one embodiment the offer is created according to search terms used by individual social media users within the friends family or associates. In another embodiment the offer is created according to prior purchases made by individual social media users within the friends family or associates. In yet another embodiment the offer is created according to social commerce content that individual social media users within the friends family or associates have accessed. In still another embodiment the offer is created according to social commerce data associated with the affiliate s social commerce storefront. In one embodiment the recommendation comprises a promotional offer. In these various embodiments the social commerce data is provided to the affiliate by the merchant. Those of skill in the art will recognize that many such embodiments are possible and the foregoing is not intended to limit the spirit scope or intent of the invention.

In step ongoing operations are performed to integrate blogs forums and various other social commerce content with the reputation rating of various affiliates. Ongoing operations are then performed in step to monitor web content and other data at predetermined web sites followed by ongoing operations in step to invite affiliates to contribute social commerce content and participate in various social commerce activities and promotions. In step ongoing operations are performed to increase the search engine optimization SEO ranking of the merchant s web site and the presentation of associated products through affiliate links as described in greater detail herein. Ongoing operations are then performed in step to increase revenue by upselling products in order to increase product sales as well as the performance of targeted advertisement placement. In step ongoing support operations are performed for a base of advocates to grow predetermined communities of interest. Ongoing operations are then performed in step to track community of interest activity and corresponding share of market voice. Social commerce community operations are then ended in step .

In step ongoing operations are performed by individual associate affiliates to customize and manage their respective social commerce storefront followed by ongoing operations being performed in step to monitor their activities and provide guidance. In step ongoing sales transactions are performed as described in greater detail herein within each associate affiliate s social commerce storefront followed by ongoing operations being performed in step to maintain merchant product stock levels. Ongoing operations are then performed in step to provide MLM activity updates to the associate affiliates including through delivery to a mobile device and ongoing operations are performed in step to track the associate affiliates activities successes and effect on the merchant s brand value. Enterprise social commerce MLM activities are then ended in step .

In step ongoing operations are performed to provide various social media content authors with promotional deals additional source content or invitations to become an affiliate of the merchant. Ongoing operations are then performed in step to monitor social commerce content provided by affiliates followed by ongoing operations in step to post product mentions on the respective product page within various affiliate social commerce storefronts. In step ongoing operations are performed to track social commerce activity leading to sales of purchasable products and social commerce listening operations are ended in step .

Referring now to social score widget creation operations are begun in step followed by the definition of social score discount rules in step . In various embodiments the social score discount rules are defined by a user and then stored within the social marketplace system. The social score discount rules as described in greater detail herein are then used by a recommendation engine to evaluate a visitor when they interact with a social score recommendation or recommendation widget.

In one embodiment the social score discount rules are defined through the use of a point and click user interface UI to create the rules in combination with matching criteria associated with predetermined social scores such as 

In this and other embodiments the rules and matching criteria are saved in a repository for late reuse. A social score widget is then created in step . In various embodiments a user accesses a widget creation module within the social commerce marketplace system and elects to create a social score widget. A subset of available assets is then selected by the user for display to a visitor within the widget. In one embodiment the user associates the aforementioned social score rules to each selected asset to control 

To further the example the following table illustrates how social scores can be used to dynamically control what is presented or recommended to visitors based on their social score 

In one embodiment the visitor s social score is used by the recommendation engine to control whether or not to display a recommendation and to likewise determine the type of widget to display. It will be appreciated that many such controls are possible and the foregoing is not intended to limit the spirit scope or intent of the invention.

Once the social score widget creation process is completed in step it is published in step to the social commerce marketplace system which finalizes its configuration and activates it for use. The social score widget is then embedded within a target host site in step . In one embodiment the social score widget is published to a third party social network site using the target site s Application Program Interface API . In another embodiment the social score widget is embedded by copying the widget s code and optional JavaScript tags to a target website s Hypertext Mark up Language HTML code. In another embodiment the social score widget is automatically embedded into a social network store web page. In yet another embodiment the social score widget is implemented to enhance a at target s HTML code through Representational State Transfer REST API calls to invoke the widget. Skilled practitioners of the art will recognize that other embodiments are possible and that the foregoing is not intended to limit the spirit scope or intent of the invention. A determination is then made in step whether to end social score widget creation operations. If not then the process is continued proceeding with step . Otherwise social score widget creation operations are ended in step .

In step the social score recommendation widget retrieves the visitor s social identity social graph information and social site history from the social commerce marketplace system. As used herein social graph information refers to information that describes the online relationship between a plurality of users. In one embodiment the social commerce marketplace system authenticates to multiple third party social networking sites to retrieve the users social identity and history.

Then in step the afore mentioned social information associated with the visitor is analyzed and associated calculations are performed to generate a social score that represents the visitor s relative value to the organization. In one embodiment the calculated social score is saved to the social commerce marketplace system so it can be reused by other modules when performing their associated operations. In another embodiment as described in greater detail herein the social commerce marketplace system uses information retrieved from various social network sites to calculate multiple social scores for the user. In various embodiments different social scores may include 

In various embodiments the calculated social score is generated by using one or more social facets to create two types of social scores. As an example a social score associated with an individual may be calculated according to analysis of the following attributes 

To further the example a social score associated with a product or its associated brand may likewise be calculated according to analysis of the following attributes 

Then in step the social score recommendation widget executes the social scoring rules described in step to determine what type of widget will be displayed the content e.g. products offers deals etc. it will contain and the order in which it will be displayed. Thereafter the contents of the social score recommendation wizard are presented to the user in step followed by a determination in step whether to end social score recommendation widget recommendations. If not then the process is continued proceeding with step . Otherwise social score recommendation widget operations are ended in step .

A determination is then made in step whether the target site has one or more social network IDs for the visitor. If so then the social network IDs are persisted in step . In one embodiment the visitor s clickstream data session information and collected cookie information is likewise persisted. This authentication and associated information is then used to request access to their corresponding social network sites in step . In various embodiments the social score recommendation widget uses JavaScript code and REST APIs that have been implemented at each respective host site to present the visitor s social site authentication information such as 

In one embodiment authentication information for access to a target social networking site is not available and the user is prompted by the social commerce marketplace system to provide the required information. In this embodiment the system dynamically builds a user interface based on the authentication information required to access the target social network site. The user is then asked to login and provide required authentication information to the target social network site. The user is then asked to allow the social commerce marketplace system to thereafter access the required authentication information from the user s account. In another embodiment the user elects to skip this process. In this embodiment the social commerce marketplace system prompts the user to authorize it to access specific data. The user then has the option to either authorize limited access for each social network or to skip the process altogether.

A determination is then made in step whether the social commerce marketplace system is granted access to the one or more social network sites as a result of the provision of the aforementioned authentication information. If so then each of the social network sites is accessed in step to retrieve the visitor s associated social graph and history.

Those of skill in the art will realize that each social network site will likely have a different set of information available for retrieval such as 

Thereafter or if it was determined in step that the target site does not have a social network ID for the user or in step that the system is not granted access to any of the social network sites then a determination is made in step whether to end social identity acquisition operations. If not then the process is continued proceeding with step . Otherwise social identity acquisition operations are ended in step .

In these and other embodiments the SEO algorithm determines keyword options for a predetermined product based upon the product s description its web page content and other related information. The social commerce marketplace system then uses the SEO algorithm to determine the product s associated search traffic and rank per keyword from various search engines. This information in addition to sales conversion rate information is used to estimate the likelihood of monetization for a single keyword or a group of keywords. In certain embodiments the SEO algorithm refines its estimates by tracking and analyzing historical purchase records for a given path and visitor segment. The system then automatically modifies the website pages with optimal combinations of keywords. Once optimized various search engines are automatically notified of the changes to the web pages to improve organic search rankings.

In various embodiments the SEO algorithm determines the competitiveness for a predetermined keyword and then assigns it a level of difficulty for a user to succeed in organic search optimization. Likewise the level of difficulty is used by the SEO algorithm to determine how much money the user could potentially earn selling products that correspond to a given level of difficulty. In these and other embodiments the level of difficulty is further refined according to analysis of the user s generated content and any additional data the social commerce marketplace system can capture from a visitor to the user s website. The SEO algorithm then determines the likelihood of a relationship or visitor associated with the user s social graph to purchase a predetermined product. Once the likelihood is determined the social commerce marketplace system creates tasks for the user monitors the progress of their completion and makes ongoing recommendations to assist the user in reaching their revenue goals. In one embodiment a crawler sub module is implemented with the SEO algorithm to crawl a predetermined domain or website to analyze the market opportunity or financial value of the site. In this embodiment the output of the analysis is a list of markets to target and a list of recommendations and tasks to complete to capitalize on each opportunity.

Referring now to SEO goal operations are begun in step to predict the estimated revenue of a predetermined product followed by addition of the predetermined product from a store s catalog to a social commerce storefront in step . In various embodiments the social commerce marketplace system automatically creates an associated product details page within the store when the product is added. In these and other embodiments the product details page comprises merchant manufacturer or store owner defined content such as a product title and descriptions. In various embodiments the store owner can optionally create additional product content and metadata such as 

Then in step manufacturer links such as Uniform Resource Locators URLs provided in the catalog feeds described in greater detail herein are used by the social commerce marketplace system as primary sources to crawl for product content. In one embodiment the social commerce marketplace system submits a search request to a search engine to obtain links to crawl if the manufacturer links are not included in the feed. In various embodiments the crawled content is indexed and used by other process steps described in greater detail herein to identify keywords and high value content.

The social commerce marketplace system then acquires the domains included in the merchant s catalog feed s as well as the highest ranked pages within predetermined search engines in step . Then in step the acquired domains and website URLs i.e. backlinks are submitted to predetermined search engines as well as other data service providers to retrieve the number quality trust and other information about the inbound links to each domain. In various embodiments this information is stored within the social commerce marketplace system and is subsequently used to determine the relative competitiveness of other vendors in the market as well as sources to crawl for recommended content and keywords for use in various SEO operations.

Then in step social graph information and social site history from predetermined social network sites for the store s social accounts e.g. store entity store owner users etc. is retrieved. The retrieved information is then analyzed by the SEO algorithm in step to identify high value keywords content backlinks and influencers for the product within the social graph s . In various embodiments the retrieved product information may be contained in social objects such as wall posts comments tweets profiles stores events etc. In various embodiments the retrieved content is semantically analyzed to determine the sentiment i.e. the tone of the content for each extracted element. In certain of these various embodiments the social commerce marketplace system scores the retrieved keywords and content according to the source s authoritative value and the content creator s social influence e.g. their digital worth score .

As used herein authoritative value broadly refers to the contextual relationship of a keyword to the overall theme of its associated content source. As an example the search term Lincoln automobile may return the phrase the Lincoln automobile is named after President Abraham Lincoln where the content source is a first web page primarily oriented to the history of President Lincoln. In this example authoritative value is low. As another example the same search term may return the same phrase but from a second web page primarily oriented to the history of the Lincoln automobile. In this example the authoritative value is high.

As likewise used herein social influence broadly refers to the level of influence a user of a social networking environment is capable of exerting upon a predetermined market segment. In various embodiments a digital worth score is derived from a user s social influence. As used herein a digital worth score refers to a numeric value or set of values associated with a predetermined user s social influence. As an example a user may write a blog extolling the virtues of a product with the result that a high percentage of the readers of the blog purchase the product. In this example the writer of the blog would have a high digital worth score. In these and other embodiments the financial value of the associated purchase s of the referenced product is used to determine the digital worth score.

In various embodiments the SEO algorithm uses additional information associated with the content authors and influencers that is stored within the social commerce marketplace system including their 

The social commerce marketplace system then retrieves available historical clickstream web analytics information in step . In various embodiments the analytics information is retrieved from corporate web sites associated with the store owner that contain product or product related information. The analytics information is then processed to generate inputs for the SEO algorithm in step . In various embodiments the retrieved analytics information includes 

One or more authoritative sites are then crawled in step to determine keywords and content related to the product which may include 

As used herein an authoritative site broadly refers to the contextual relationship of individual content elements within a content source.

To extend the previously used example the phrase the Lincoln automobile is named after President Abraham Lincoln in a first web page primarily oriented to the history of President Lincoln may not be considered to be an authoritative site on the Lincoln automobile. Conversely the same phrase in a second web page primarily oriented to the history of the Lincoln automobile may be considered to be an authoritative site on the Lincoln automobile.

Once the product has been added to the on line store the social commerce marketplace system semantically extracts topics themes and keywords from the product s content and associated metadata in step . In various embodiments such content and associated metadata comprises 

In various embodiments additional third party data related to the product is extracted and stored within the social commerce marketplace system including 

A list of keywords themes and topics from the previous process steps along with any additional keywords that were extracted for the same catalog product when it was last added or analyzed for other stores is then generated in step . The resulting list is then submitted to various search engines as well as other data service providers to retrieve additional information in step . Search results corresponding to each element of the submitted list is then received in step . In various embodiments the search results include 

The keyword search results received in step are then analyzed by the SEO algorithm in step to generate a keyword score corresponding to each keyword s estimated effect on inbound traffic conversion rate competiveness competitive pricing and other factors. Then in step the SEO algorithm uses a variety of SEO formulas and optimization best practices to process the keyword scores generated in step to generate a ranked list of keywords predicted to result in the highest amount of traffic and conversion rates.

In step the user e.g. an online store owner uses various financial goal information to set financial goals for the product before it is published to the online store. In various embodiments the financial goal information may include 

A series of market opportunity i.e. market penetration scores are then generated in step from the data collected and analyzed in the previous process steps to identify areas that the product may perform well in e.g. low competition high demand etc. . In various opportunities these areas may include

The social commerce marketplace system then uses the preceding goals selected list of keywords and opportunity scores in step to determine the estimated traffic and related SEO elements e.g. the number of backlinks links etc. required to reach the financial goals of the online store. Then in step the social commerce marketplace system calculates the estimated difficulty of achieving the financial goals which provides the store owner the information required to make a decision if they should include the product within their online store. In one embodiment the financial goal information provided in step is presented to the online store owner to show the potential financial opportunity by market segment. It will be appreciated that such information would assist the online store owner in focusing and aligning their marketing efforts to those market segments that represent the greatest financial opportunities.

The product is then saved to the online store and its corresponding product details page is published to the online store s website in step followed by a determination being made in step whether to continue SEO goal attainment operations. If so then the process is continued proceeding with step . Otherwise SEO goal attainment operations are ended in step .

In one embodiment the financial goal window comprises a financial goal amount data entry field and a Calculate command button . In this embodiment a user enters a financial goal amount in the financial goal amount data entry field and then selects the Calculate command button . The estimated traffic and SEO elements required to reach the financial goal are calculated and then displayed in the requirements window .

In this embodiment keyword submission optimization operations are begun in step to automatically insert the keywords generated in step of the process described in the descriptive text of . The social commerce marketplace system then automatically inserts the aforementioned keywords into the target webpage s keywords meta tag within its associated HTML code in step . In one embodiment a user e.g. the online store owner can manually update the keywords within the keywords meta tag at any time through a user interface UI .

Then in step the social commerce marketplace system automatically inserts the product title provided by the merchant or a manufacturer into the webpage s HTML title tag. In one embodiment a user e.g. the online store owner can manually update the title tag at any time through a UI. The social commerce marketplace system then automatically inserts the product title provided by the merchant or a manufacturer into the alt image tag for the product image s URL in step . In one embodiment a user e.g. the online store owner can manually update the alt image tag at any time through a UI.

A friendly URL that contains text elements from the product s title is then automatically created by the social commerce marketplace system in step . As used herein a friendly URL refers to a URL pointing to a location that references a topic or subject that is indicated in the name of the URL. As an example the URL may contain the name of a product that is promoted within the URL s associated page or site. Then in step the social commerce marketplace system automatically inserts the product title from the merchant manufacture into the webpage s HTML H1 heading tag. In various embodiments a user e.g. the online store owner can manually update any of the H1 through H6 HTML heading tags at any time through a UI. In various embodiments the social commerce marketplace system also automatically updates other HTML elements expected by commercial search engines such as 

The target web page is then published to a production instance of the online store in step . Once the target web page is published the social commerce marketplace system automatically creates an HTML site map for the online store in step and keeps it updated thereafter. In various embodiments the web page s index within the site map is updated whenever a material change e.g. in its page name title URL etc. occurs.

Skilled practitioners of the art will be aware that it is common for search engine crawlers to use sitemap.xml files to help them index a target website. To assist such search engine crawlers the sitemap.xml file for the online store is automatically updated by the social commerce marketplace system in step whenever there is a material change e.g. new page URL name change etc. . Those of skill in the art will likewise be aware that it is also common for search engine crawlers use robots.txt files to help them understand which areas of the site to index. To assist such search engine crawlers the robots.txt file for the online store is automatically updated by the social commerce marketplace system in step whenever there is a material change e.g. new page URL name change etc. .

Then in step the social commerce marketplace system automatically submits the page to various search engines to notify them if there was a change to the online store such as in the page s HTML elements its URL or if the page was newly created or deleted. The social commerce marketplace system then automatically identifies potential issues and creates tasks for the user to remedy them in step . In various embodiments such issues may include 

A determination is then made is step whether to end keyword submission optimization operations. If not then the process is continued proceeding with step . Otherwise keyword submission optimization operations are ended in step .

In various embodiments an SEO algorithm is implemented to mitigate the potential deterioration of the earning value of a product promoted by similar online stores by 

In these and other embodiments the social commerce marketplace system evaluates the online store s SEO status individual product detail page SEO status and other factors to generate tasks for a user e.g. the store owner to complete to improve the likelihood of achieving their revenue goals

In this embodiment product and store performance optimization operations are begun in step . Then in step the social commerce marketplace system retrieves social graph information associated with a user e.g. an online store owner which is then used to determine their relationships influence reach within their network and the corresponding influence and reach of each of those relationships for the online store and each store user. Based upon each store owner s digital worth and social graph the social commerce marketplace system then generates recommended tasks in step to improve the likelihood of the online store reaching its financial goals. In various embodiments these tasks include 

Then in step the social commerce marketplace system recommends social networking tasks for the user e.g. the online store owner including the creation of new types of blog posts and changes to make to existing blog posts. In one embodiment the social commerce marketplace system identifies other online store blogs within a social network site that the user should consider building backlinks with to mutually benefit each party. In another embodiment the social commerce marketplace systems recommends specific blog sites that have the highest market opportunity to attract powerful influencers who in turn will create backlinks to the on line store. In this and other embodiments the backlinks are created directly through page links or indirectly through re tweets wall posts etc. to drive organic traffic to the online store. In yet another embodiment the social commerce marketplace system recommends the frequency of updates content to post and the types of offers to make within the blogs.

In step the social commerce marketplace system identifies third party influencers and creates recommended tasks that provide both ideas and instructions to obtain backlinks from each target. In one embodiment in addition to existing targets based on their individual value the social commerce marketplace system also recommends targets based upon the aggregate long term value of the market opportunity associated with the target. In this embodiment a determination is made regarding how valuable the target s social graph and influence are within a market segment and the likelihood that they will generate additional relationships that the online store can capitalize upon in the future.

The social commerce marketplace system then automatically generates recommended tasks in step to make changes to product detail pages widgets store blogs or the online store s home page to improve the online store s SEO performance and subsequent traffic. In various embodiments these recommendations are based upon visitor activity within a social network environment their associated purchase activity online store content changes and other information. Then in step the social commerce marketplace system generates recommend lead generation tasks including 

The social commerce marketplace system then generates recommended search engine tasks in step . In one embodiment the social commerce marketplace system analyzes the competition and then recommends search engine keyword bidding activities for each identified marketing opportunity. In another embodiment a recommendation is generated to determine marketing spend allocation to optimize various Search Engine Marketing SEM programs. Then in step the social commerce marketplace system generates recommended pricing and offers that should be created and presented to each market segment or individual visitor. In various embodiments the social commerce marketplace system analyzes competitive factors for each market opportunity segment and recommends optimized pricing and discount structures to optimize conversion rates revenue and margins for each segment.

In step the social commerce marketplace system analyzes competitive factors e.g. lower competition more demand etc. for each market opportunity segment and then recommends specific ratings and reviews to associate with each product to optimize conversation and revenue uplift. Then in step the social commerce marketplace system identifies markets and market segments that have arbitrage opportunity which are then used to generate a list of recommended market tasks that capitalize on the arbitrage opportunities. Examples of market arbitrage opportunities include 

In one embodiment the social commerce marketplace system performs an analysis to determine if there is an opportunity e.g. based upon projected revenue or margin to liquidate products to a specific market. In another embodiment the social commerce marketplace system performs an analysis to recommend the type of marketing campaigns to execute within a specific market. In yet another embodiment the social commerce marketplace system performs an analysis to recommend whether or not the online store should create a micro site store for a specific market opportunity. In still another embodiment the social commerce marketplace system performs an analysis to recommend local physical locations to open a Flash pop up store based upon a local market opportunity.

Then in step the social commerce marketplace system tracks ad spend and response rates across radio television and web media to generate recommendations for the optimal allocation of ad spend. In one embodiment the social commerce marketplace system monitors ad spends for a specific product or product category to determine on line marketing and merchandising tasks to capitalize on the ad influence to determine which products to sell where e.g. region location etc. to sell them and at what pricing point. In step the social commerce marketplace system then generated recommendations regarding what types of product to stock according to their anticipated sales rate such that various online stores can optimize their inventory levels to achieve higher net margins for a given market segment or opportunity.

The social commerce marketplace system then generates recommendations in step regarding which products to sell which products to bundle the price of a product and the discount to apply based upon the visitor s context or intent and the market opportunity analysis. In one embodiment the social commerce marketplace system recommends which products to market to a specific market segment. In another embodiment the social commerce marketplace system recommends which related products to offer or present to visitors based on the current product they are viewing and their market opportunity context. For example a particular type of hair product may be presented according to the user s local market trends and demand.

Then in step the social commerce marketplace system analyzes procurement demand within predetermined markets and market segments to determine areas of opportunity. Based upon each opportunity the social commerce marketplace system generates recommendations regarding which products to bid pricing and packaging. After the recommended tasks have been completed the social commerce marketplace system re executes the SEO algorithm in step to update financial prediction as well as recommended store tasks. A determination is then made in step whether to end product and store performance optimization operations. If not then the process is continued proceeding with step . Otherwise product and store performance optimization operations are ended in step .

Then in step a digital worth score is generated for the owner of the target storefront owner and all users within their social graph. As used herein a digital worth score refers to a numeric value or set of values associated with a predetermined user s social influence. In various embodiments a digital worth score is derived from a user s social influence. As likewise used herein social influence broadly refers to the level of influence a user of a social networking environment is capable of exerting upon a predetermined market segment. In various embodiments the financial value of the associated purchase s of one or more predetermined products or product classes is used to determine the digital worth score. The individual digital worth scores are then processed in step to generate an aggregate digital worth score.

Then in step social commerce information related to the social commerce storefront is retrieved. In various embodiments the retrieved information includes forecasted traffic rates associated with the value of the target social commerce storefront s key words the value of its merchandize and services and corresponding advertising. The retrieved social commerce information is then processed in step with the aforementioned aggregate digital worth score to generate a social commerce valuation value. In one embodiment the social commerce valuation value comprises a net present value NPV familiar to those of skill in the art.

Social commerce storefronts that are comparable to the target storefront are then identified in step followed by comparing the comparing the social commerce valuation value of those storefronts that have been sold to the social commerce valuation value of the target storefront in step . The potential monetary value of the target storefront is then determined in step by selecting the social commerce valuation value of the most comparable storefront that has been sold. In one embodiment an average of the respective social commerce valuation values of a plurality of comparable storefronts is used to determine the monetary value of the target storefront. A determination is then made in step whether to end social commerce storefront valuation operations. If not then the process is continued proceeding with step . Otherwise social commerce storefront valuation operations are ended in step .

The present invention is well adapted to attain the advantages mentioned as well as others inherent therein. While the present invention has been depicted described and is defined by reference to particular embodiments of the invention such references do not imply a limitation on the invention and no such limitation is to be inferred. The invention is capable of considerable modification alteration and equivalents in form and function as will occur to those ordinarily skilled in the pertinent arts. The depicted and described embodiments are examples only and are not exhaustive of the scope of the invention.

For example the above discussed embodiments include software modules that perform certain tasks. The software modules discussed herein may include script batch or other executable files. The software modules may be stored on a machine readable or computer readable storage medium such as a disk drive. Storage devices used for storing software modules in accordance with an embodiment of the invention may be magnetic floppy disks hard disks or optical discs such as CD ROMs or CD Rs for example. A storage device used for storing firmware or hardware modules in accordance with an embodiment of the invention may also include a semiconductor based memory which may be permanently removably or remotely coupled to a microprocessor memory system. Thus the modules may be stored within a computer system memory to configure the computer system to perform the functions of the module. Other new and various types of computer readable storage media may be used to store the modules discussed herein. Additionally those skilled in the art will recognize that the separation of functionality into modules is for illustrative purposes. Alternative embodiments may merge the functionality of multiple modules into a single module or may impose an alternate decomposition of functionality of modules. For example a software module for calling sub modules may be decomposed so that each sub module performs its function and passes control directly to another sub module.

Consequently the invention is intended to be limited only by the spirit and scope of the appended claims giving full cognizance to equivalents in all respects.

