---

title: Method and system for managing data and enabling payment transactions between multiple entities
abstract: A system for conducting payment transaction includes a network-enabled server that communicates with one or more user devices, other network-enabled server computers, and a payment processing network server computer. The network-enabled server facilitates transactions between one or more merchants and users by a managing data flow and interactions between the merchants and the users, providing storage area for storing of all transaction related documents, and providing seamless integration with a payment processing network for payment processing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08856043&OS=08856043&RS=08856043
owner: Visa International Service Association
number: 08856043
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120217
---
This application claims priority under 35 USC 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 444 276 filed on Feb. 18 2011 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety for all purposes.

In a traditional payment transaction scenario a user uses a payment device at an access device to pay for a product or service. The payment device information is sent to a payment processing network which communicates with an issuer of the payment device to authorize the transaction. The issuer merely checks if the user has enough balance credit left in the account to cover the amount of transaction.

Thus in the conventional method there is no validation of the transaction itself. For example the issuer cannot request additional documentation from either the merchant or the user to verify whether the service product that is subject of the transaction is actually required and or provided to the user. In other words nothing is done to check whether the transaction is genuine proper or actually initiated by the payment device holder. In the conventional system if the user has enough balance credit in his account and the required transaction details are provided by the merchant the transaction is processed without additional verification. The problem is especially acute when there are more than two entities involved in a transaction where the entity paying for the product service is not the entity that actually receives the product service.

Currently the existing payment processing systems are not equipped to handle the extra traffic that may be generated by the information documentation related to each payment transaction that involves multiple entities. Thus there is a need for a new infrastructure that can handle the increased traffic generated because of the extra validation processes and thereafter process payment once the transaction is validated.

Embodiments of the present invention are generally related to processing payment transactions. In particular certain embodiments of the present invention provide a system that enables end user devices to interact directly with payment processing systems without having to go through another entity. Other embodiments of the present invention provide a method for performing payment transactions with added security and validation. The system provides a mechanism for managing all transactions associated with getting paid for performing a service or getting paid for selling a product. The system and method disclosed herein minimize the delay between performance of a service and getting paid for the performed service and or selling a product and getting paid for selling a product.

Some embodiments of the present invention provide a system for processing transactions. The system comprises a payment processing network server computer configured to communicate with an issuer to process payment requests and a network enabled server computer configured to communicate with one or more external systems. The network enabled server computer is further configured to receive a payment request from a merchant computer for authorizing payment for a transaction request additional information associated with the transaction from the merchant computer and send a validation request to a user device to validate the payment request. The network enabled server computer further receives a response to the validation request and alias information about the user. Network enabled server computer then determines payment account information based on the alias. The network enabled server computer communicates the payment account information to the payment processing network server computer.

In some embodiments the network enabled server computer may also receive information from the payment processing network server computer indicating successful processing of the payment transaction and communicate the information to the merchant computer and or the user device. In some embodiments the network enabled server computer communicates with the user device and the merchant computer using WSDL messaging techniques RESTful computing techniques and or JSON.

Some embodiments of the present invention provide a network enabled server computer. The network enabled server computer includes an alias database comprising information about one or more aliases an alias hierarchy database comprising association information between an alias and one or more objects associated with the alias an application interface configured to communicate with one or more external devices and a data storage configured to store data. In some embodiments the one or more aliases comprise identifiers associated with a plurality of entities wherein an entity includes an individual or a company. In some embodiments the alias database includes payment account information associated with an alias. In some embodiments the one or more objects include mobile communication devices televisions and gaming consoles. The application interface may be configured to communicate with the one or more external devices using WSDL and or JSON messaging techniques.

Some embodiments of the present inventions provide a method for processing a payment transaction. The method includes receiving a first message from a merchant server computer requesting authorization for a transaction sending a second message to the merchant server computer requesting additional information related to the transaction and receiving a third message from the merchant server computer including the requested information. The method further includes sending a fourth message to a user device requesting a user to validate the transaction receiving a fifth message from the user device including validation information and receiving a sixth message from the user device including payment account information. Thereafter the method further includes sending a seventh message to a payment processing network server computer including the payment account information and transaction information receiving an eight message from the payment processing network server computer including results of the payment transaction processing and sending a ninth message to the merchant server computer including the results of the payment transaction processing.

In some embodiments the additional information related to the transaction may include documents images audio video or graphics. In some embodiments one or more of the first message the second message the third message the fourth message the fifth message the sixth message and the ninth message are sent using WSDL techniques. In some embodiments one or more of the first message the second message the third message the fourth message the fifth message the sixth message and the ninth message are sent using RESTful computing techniques. In other embodiments one or more of the first message the second message the third message the fourth message the fifth message the sixth message and the ninth message are created using JSON. In some embodiments the first message includes alias information of the user. In an embodiment prior to sending the fourth message the server computer may consult an alias database to determine the user device associated with the alias. In some embodiments the payment account information is stored in the server computer.

Embodiments of the present invention provide a system for validating and processing payment transactions between multiple parties. The system includes a payment processing network sever computer data management server computer a user and one or more merchants.

In order to provide a better understanding of the present disclosure a brief review of transaction processing as it exists today is provided with reference to . For ease of discussion a transaction conducted in a physical store is described however it should be understood that similar steps occur in any type of transaction including online transactions. In a typical transaction a user may select goods or services to purchase at a merchant. The user may then pay for the goods or services by presenting a transaction card such as a debit or credit card to the merchant. The merchant may then swipe the transaction card through an access device e.g. a Point of Sale POS terminal to read the account number from the transaction card.

Access device may then send the account number to a merchant system where other information related to the transaction such as purchase amount may be added. It should be noted that in some cases the access device and the merchant system are a single device in which the account number is read and the purchase amount is keyed in by the merchant. The transaction details such as the account number and purchase amount are then sent from the merchant system to an acquirer system to request transaction authorization. An acquirer is generally a bank that holds an account for the merchant in which funds resulting from the transaction may eventually be deposited.

The acquirer system then receives the transaction details and determines a payment processing network that may process the transaction. The acquirer routes the transaction to the appropriate payment processing network which in turns determines the issuer of the transaction card. As mentioned above an issuer may provide the user with an account that holds cash or a line of credit. The payment processing network then routes the transaction to the correct issuer for a transaction authorization decision. If the user has sufficient funds in the account or sufficient available credit the issuer may authorize the transaction. The authorization response is transmitted back to the merchant through the payment processing network the acquirer and the access device . The user has then completed the purchase of the goods or services. At a later point in time a settling and clearing process may occur in which the funds are actually transferred from the user s account or drawn on the line of credit to the merchant s account at the acquirer. The settlement and clearing process occurs using the account number wherein a request for funds may be compared to a previous authorization and if an authorization exists the funds are transferred.

Transactions may become even more complicated when a Personal Identification Number PIN is required. For example in the case of some debit card transactions a PIN must be entered by the user. The PIN is typically entered into the access device in clear form by the user. The PIN is then encrypted using a Pin Encryption Key PEK in the access device and is sent to a merchant system which also knows the PEK. The merchant system then decrypts the PIN using the PEK and encrypts it again using an acquirer working key AWK which is a key known by the merchant and the acquirer. The acquirer then decrypts the PIN using the AWK and encrypts again using a payment processor key. The payment processor in turn decrypts the PIN and encrypts using an issuer working key. The issuer then decrypts the PIN and determines if the PIN is correct.

In the traditional payment processing process described above the transaction is usually between a single entity that is purchasing a product or a service and a single entity that is providing the product or a service. There is no mechanism to validate or request more information about a transaction as part of payment processing process before approving that transaction. For example if a user is requesting a service from a first merchant which may be paid for by a second merchant contracted by the user currently there is no mechanism by which the second merchant can ensure as part of the payment processing operation that a the service is actually needed and b proper documentation is available in order to authorize that service. In most of these situation the first merchant the second merchant and the user end up exchanging information among themselves either prior to performance of the service or after the service is rendered in order to authorize payment for the service.

The traditional process is very cumbersome and slow. In many cases it often takes weeks or months before the first merchant gets paid for the service he has provided. Also since most of the processing for payment authorization involves printed paperwork and communication via regular mail instances of lost documentation a plentiful which further delays the performance of a service and or payment for a service already performed. In addition the traditional process is labor intensive and is costly for the merchants who generally recover part of the costs from the users. Embodiments of the present invention serve to alleviate these and many other issues with the current mechanism.

Embodiments of the current invention provide a mechanism for integrating the payment processing infrastructure with a new infrastructure for handling the supporting documentation and information needed to effect the payment processing. Many advantages can be realized with the system and methods described below. First by automating most of the traditional mechanisms for service and payment authorization the proposed system can greatly enhance the speed and efficiency of execution. Second the system leverages use of billions of network connected servers and user devices such as cell phones mobile computing devices TVs etc. to enable a user and a merchant to interact quickly and efficiently without having to resort to traditional methods like mailing of documents. This may greatly enhance the speed of processing both the transaction authorization and payment processing aspects of a transaction. Third since the system uses a web based cloud server configuration to store data the data is available for access virtually anywhere in the world at anytime further reducing the delay in the entire process. Fourth the system uses WSDL JSON and or RESTful messaging which are universally supported by virtually all the current network enabled servers and devices. This is may greatly reduce the cost message for communicating with the cloud server computer s . These cost savings can be passed on to the merchants users. Finally the system provides a secure means of conducting transactions in which the user need not provide his payment details to any merchant but rather uses only an alias to conduct transactions. The user s payment details are stored safely on the cloud server computer. Thus there is virtually no payment details exchanged between a user and a merchant which reduces the instances of fraud and identity theft.

Payment processing network server computer also communicates with a data store that stores payment related information. In some embodiments data store may include for a particular account account number payment device identifier s associated with the account the CVV code associated with the payment device s account holder information etc. In operation payment processing network server computer consults with data store to retrieve the information needed to process the payment transaction. In some embodiments data store may be integrated into the payment processing network server computer . In other embodiments data store may be external to payment processing network server computer and may comprise shared data resources. Data store may be implemented using any non volatile storage medium such as optical disks HDD or flash memory. In some embodiments data store may also include addressing and control circuitry for accessing the data in data store .

System may also include a cloud server computer that may be operated by the same entity that operates payment processing network server computer . Cloud server computer may be implemented e.g. by computer system of . Cloud server computer may include a database one or more application interfaces storage device and an alias database .

Database may have a subset of information present in data store . In some embodiments database may include all the information from data store . Periodically database is synchronized with data store to ensure that database has the most current information related to user accounts. In some embodiments for security purposes certain information that is present in data store may not be present in database . Database can be implemented using appropriate hardware and software components commonly available. In some embodiments database can used shared memory architecture. Shared memory is memory that may be simultaneously accessed by multiple programs with intent to provide communication among them or avoid redundant copies. Shared memory is an efficient means of passing data between programs. Depending on context programs may run on a single processor or on multiple separate processors.

Application interface can include hardware and software for communicating with various external devices. In some embodiments application interface may include requisite functionality for sending and receiving WSDL messages JavaScript Object Notation JSON and RESTful computing messages. WSDL Web Services Description Language is an XML based language that provides a model for describing Web services. WSDL is often used in combination with SOAP and an XML Schema to provide web services over the Internet. A client program connecting to a web service can read the WSDL file to determine what operations are available on the server. Any special data types used are embedded in the WSDL file in the form of XML Schema. The client can then use SOAP to actually call one of the operations listed in the WSDL file. WSDL is widely used for communications over a network. REST Representational State Transfer is a style of software architecture for distributed hypermedia systems such as the World Wide Web. REST style architectures consist of clients and servers. Clients initiate requests to servers servers process requests and return appropriate responses. Requests and responses are built around the transfer of representations of resources. A resource can be essentially any coherent and meaningful concept that may be addressed. A representation of a resource is typically a document that captures the current or intended state of a resource.

JSON is a lightweight text based open standard designed for human readable data interchange. It is derived from the JavaScript scripting language for representing simple data structures and associative arrays called objects. Despite its relationship to JavaScript it is language independent with parsers available for most languages. The JSON format is often used for serializing and transmitting structured data over a network connection. It is used primarily to transmit data between a server and web application serving as an alternative to XML.

Storage device can be implemented using a non transitory non volatile storage media such as hard disks optical disks flash memory etc. In some embodiments storage device can include several individual storage media. In some embodiments storage device can have a capacity in excess of 100 terabytes. In some embodiments storage device may store all the supporting information for a particular transaction.

Alias database may include information about an alias. An alias may be a representation of an individual or a business. In some embodiments alias database may include biographical information about an alias information about devices associated with the alias etc. A detailed description of an alias database is provided in the pending commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 846 767 filed on Jul. 29 2010 the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein in its entirety for all purposes. In some embodiments alias database may be part of database . illustrates an example of data that may be store in alias database .

As illustrated in alias hierarchy and data structure tree includes a top level alias to which all other aliases and objects are linked. As described above date illustrated in may be stored in alias database . The alias may be associated with an entity organization a person individual or a device. In some embodiments alias may be linked to other aliases within or outside a particular tree. Alias may be linked to various hierarchy groups and . The hierarchy groups are used to arrange the data in a manageable form and for ease of search using standard database queries. Each of these hierarchy groups may represent a particular area e.g. devices household individual entity business etc. In the hierarchy group is referred to as the business domain. This hierarchy group relates to a business entity that may be owned or operated by owner of the alias . The hierarchy group may have several objects linked to it. Each of the objects linked to the hierarchy group in turn may have an alias associated with them. As illustrated the hierarchy group may have an object associated with it. The object may be a network used by the business entity. The object may further have objects and associated with it. In an embodiment object may be the internet service provider ISP used by the business entity and the object may be the telephone company that provides telephone service to the business entity. In addition the hierarchy group may have other network type objects linked to it. The object may also have other objects and linked to it. The object may represent a financial institution e.g. a bank which issues a credit card and where the business entity has its checking account . Each of the objects and may also have an alias associated with them. Similarly hierarchy group may have another financial institution associated with it that may represent a different bank where the business entity has an account.

Hierarchy group is related to an individual domain. Hierarchy group includes information about an individual and his household. For example hierarchy group may have an object that represents the spouse of the individual an object that specifies the gender of the individual an object that represent the children of the individual and an object that represents the household of the individual. The object may be further liked to one or more objects that represent the address of the household the parcel number of the household etc. Similarly object may be further linked to other objects that represent the spouse s age gender any other children of the spouse etc.

Hierarchy group is related to devices that may be used by a business entity or an individual. The hierarchy group may also have various subjects associated with it. In an embodiment the hierarchy group may have objects and associated with it. The object may represent the vehicle owned by the individual or the business entity. The object may represent the computer owned by the individual or the business entity. The object may represent various other electronic devices owned by the individual or the business entity. The object may represent a cell phone owned by the individual or the business entity. In some embodiments the object may have additional objects associated with it that may represent various attributes of the object . For example the object may have attributes that represent a phone number serial number of the cell phone device a serial number of a SIM card installed in the cell phone associated with the object . In some embodiments each of the attributes may be an object and have a unique alias associated with the object. As described earlier each of the objects associated with any of the hierarchy groups may have a unique alias associated with them.

In some embodiments an object in one hierarchy group may also be associated with another object in a different hierarchy group. For example object cell phone may be associated with object in the instance where the cell phone is also a payment device e.g. implementing contactless card technology. In some embodiments one hierarchy group may be linked to another hierarchy group for the same alias or a different alias. For example if a husband and wife share the same household the hierarchy group associated with the household may be linked to alias of the husband as well as the alias of the wife or to any other hierarchy groups that are linked to the alias of the husband or the wife.

Thus it can be seen that each hierarchy group can include multiple levels of objects linked to each other within the same hierarchy group. In addition objects in one hierarchy group can be linked to objects in different hierarchy groups. It is to be understood that the various objects and aliases illustrated in are exemplary and the type and amount of objects associated with an alias may depend on whether the alias is an individual or an entity such as a merchant described above.

Referring back to system may also include one or more user devices and one or more merchant server computers . User devices can include mobile communication devices televisions PDA s PC s and portable computing devices. Each user device may be associated with an alias belonging to the user. In this manner any transaction originating or terminating at user device can be tracked and properly attributed to the corresponding user. Merchant server computers can be any network enabled server computer that is associated with a merchant. A merchant as used herein can be a corporation e.g. Google Facebook etc. a service provider e.g. an insurance company auto body shop gas station etc. retail outlets e.g. Sears Wal Mart etc. a network based information provider e.g. search engines social networks etc. or any other entity that provides either a product a service or information.

Further while system is described herein with reference to particular blocks it is to be understood that these blocks are defined for convenience of description and are not intended to imply a particular physical arrangement of component parts. Further the blocks need not correspond to physically distinct components. Blocks can be configured to perform various operations e.g. by programming a processor or providing appropriate control circuitry and various blocks might or might not be reconfigurable depending on how the initial configuration is obtained.

Now the operation of system will be described below using an example in which a user needs to get some dental work done e.g. a root canal and seeks authorization from his insurance company who may authorize payment for the service. It is to be understood that the scenario described below is given to explain the operation of system and should not be construed to limit the embodiments described herein. Consider that in user device is a mobile device merchant is an insurance company and merchant is a doctor.

After the user associated with user device visits the doctor the doctor proceeds to get authorization from the insurance company for performance of the service. In order to accomplish this the doctor may send a service authorization message to cloud server computer . Cloud server computer then relays the message to the insurance company . The insurance company may need additional information in order to authorize the service e.g. a dental x ray of the user. The insurance company may request the additional information from the doctor via cloud server computer . The doctor may then upload the x ray to cloud server computer where it may be stored in storage device . The x ray is then communicated to the insurance company which may authorize the service. The authorization may be communicated to the doctor along with a transaction ID for that service request. The transaction ID may be used to track the service when a payment request for that service is made.

After the doctor provides the service to the user the doctor may submit a payment request to cloud server computer for the service along with the transaction ID for that service. Cloud server computer may relay the payment request to the insurance company. Before the insurance company pays the doctor it may want to verify that the user has indeed received the service. Accordingly the insurance company may send a validation request to user device via cloud server computer . The user can validate that the service was provided by using user device . Once the insurance company receives user validation it can send payment details to cloud server computer . In some embodiments cloud server computer may have payment details for the insurance company stored in database . At this point cloud server computer may send the payment details to payment processing network for payment processing. Once the payment is successfully processed payment processing network may inform cloud server computer of the results which may be stored by cloud server computer . In some embodiments the results may be communicated to the user and the doctor.

As seen from above for a single payment transaction for the dental service provided to the user there are multiple steps that occur. In one embodiment of the present invention cloud server computer handles all the supporting data and interaction that occurs prior to the payment transaction being processed. In some embodiments for every 1 payment transaction there may be up to 9 supporting transactions that may occur. Since all the supporting transactions occur directly between end users user device merchants and and cloud server computer there is less delay and messages can be handled in an efficient manner. Cloud server computer provides the individual entities with a much faster way of completing a transaction. For example for the illustrative scenario described above it would have taken weeks for the entire transaction to be completed not counting any scheduling delays between the user and the doctor. However with system the entire transaction can be completed in matter of minutes and almost real time. In addition having a neutral third party e.g. VISA operate the cloud server computer provides all the stake holders with assurance that their information will be properly safeguarded. In addition it reduces the burden on the merchants and the users of having to track the paperwork and manage multiple channels of communication for every transaction.

Another example where the embodiments of the present invention may be used are in a transactions that involves a user buying gas at a gas station. In this instance merchant may be the gas station where the user intends to buy gas for his car. Even before the user drives to the gas station the user can communicate with cloud server computer using e.g. a communication device in his car to retrieve information associated with the gas station e.g. gas price gas availability etc. The information associated with the gas station may be stored under the alias for the gas station in alias database . This information may be updated periodically to reflect the most updated information. In an embodiment the user device may communicate the alias of the gas station in order to retrieve the information. In addition to the information associated with the gas station cloud server computer may also gather information about the gas station from one or more information providers e.g. merchant . Such information may include travel time between user s current location to the gas station including traffic conditions an optimal travel route reputation of the gas station in terms of average wait time for fill up etc. All this information can be sent back to the user device.

The user may then drive to the gas station. The user device may determine that the user is nearing the gas station e.g. based on location information of the user device and send an indication to the gas station that the user is about to arrive at the gas station. The indication may include the user s alias information. The gas station server computer may use the user s alias information to request preauthorization from the user s payment card issuer for a potential gas purchase. Since the user s alias information is stored in alias database cloud server computer can determine user s payment device and communicate with the issuer of the payment device to obtain the preauthorization. When the user actually enters the gas station and drives up to a particular pump the user device may communicate with the gas station server via cloud server computer to indicate user s location. In response to this information the gas station s server computer can enable that pump for use.

The user may immediately start pumping gas from that pump without having to swipe this card or present any payment device. Once the user has finished dispensing the gas the gas station server may send the final amount of purchase to cloud server to be communicated to the user s issuer. In some embodiments the issuer may send a confirmation message to the user s device via cloud server computer to verify that the user indeed purchased the gas. Once the user confirms the purchase the payment authorization may proceed according to conventional processes.

Thus in this exemplary scenario the user may not have to provide his payment details to the gas station at all. All transactions can be conducted using an alias and the gas station gets paid without ever receiving the user payment details. In addition providing a secure means for the user to conduct his transactions may result in encouraging user s to use the system.

Cloud server may also include a data store that includes a alias database and alias hierarchy information . Alias database may include information about an alias. An alias can be some form of an identifier e.g. e mail address associated with an entity. The entity can either be an individual or a company. In some embodiments alias database may include biographical information associated with an alias such as contact information address etc. In some embodiments alias database may also include information about a payment device associated with an alias. As used herein a payment device can be a credit card a debit card a smart card an account number etc. In some embodiments alias database may be synchronized with the database associated with the payment processing network e.g. data store of .

Data store may also include alias hierarchy information . In an embodiment alias hierarchy information may include associations between and alias and one or more objects e.g. devices real property etc. and between two or more aliases. For example one of the objects may be the cell phone associated with the alias. So in the example above when the insurance company communicates with the user to validate that the service was provided by the doctor it may send a message to the cloud server computer with the alias information for the user. The cloud server may look up the cell phone number of the user and send the message to the cell phone. When a reply is received from the user the cloud server computer may verify that the cell phone from where the reply originated is associated with the user. Thus this may provide an additional level of security and verification.

Cloud server may also include data storage . Data storage may include multiple storage devices working in synchronization to provide data storage capability. In some embodiments data storage may have a storage capacity in excess of 100 terabytes. In some embodiments most of the supporting documentation associated with a particular transaction may be stored in data storage . For example in the example discussed above the dental x ray and any other documentation related to the service provided by the doctor may be stored in data storage . For this reason it is desirable to have the storage capacity of data storage as high as possible.

Cloud server may also include an application interface . Application interface may communicate with external systems such as other network enabled user devices and other network enabled server computers that may reside at merchant locations. It is estimated that are approximately 1 billion network enabled user devices are in operation currently and are projected to grow at an annual rate of 1 billion year. In order to interact with all these external systems application interface may use WSDL messaging JSON and or RESTful computing architecture. Use of these techniques ensures that the cost of processing the large amount of transactions with the external systems is kept at a minimum. Application interface can be implemented using any suitable hardware and or software components that are designed to utilize WSDL JSON and or RESTful messaging.

Further while cloud server computer is described herein with reference to particular blocks it is to be understood that these blocks are defined for convenience of description and are not intended to imply a particular physical arrangement of component parts. Further the blocks need not correspond to physically distinct components. Blocks can be configured to perform various operations e.g. by programming a processor or providing appropriate control circuitry and various blocks might or might not be reconfigurable depending on how the initial configuration is obtained.

Initially the cloud server may receive a request for authorizing a transaction from a merchant . The cloud server may request additional information about the transaction from the merchant . In some embodiments the additional information may include documentation images audio etc. The cloud server may communicate with the other entity or entities involved in the transaction for validating the transaction . For example if the transaction is a request from a merchant for getting paid for an item purchased by a user the user may be asked to validate that he she indeed purchased the item for which payment is being requested. Once the other entity validates the transaction the cloud server may receive payment details from the other entity . In some embodiments payment details may include information about a payment device to be used for paying for the item purchased. Once the payment details are received the cloud server may send the payment details to a payment processing network for further processing. In some embodiments prior to sending the payment details the cloud server may verify that the payment details are associated with the other entity e.g. by consulting the alias database of . Thereafter the cloud server may receive results from the payment processing operation from the payment processing network . The cloud server may then communicate the results to the merchant and the user . In some embodiments after completion of the transaction the cloud server may archive all the data related to that transaction and associate an identifier to it for ease of retrieval later.

It should be appreciated that the specific steps illustrated in provide a particular method of processing a transaction according to an embodiment of the present invention. Other sequences of steps may also be performed according to alternative embodiments. For example alternative embodiments of the present invention may perform the steps outlined above in a different order. Moreover the individual steps illustrated in may include multiple sub steps that may be performed in various sequences as appropriate to the individual step. Furthermore additional steps may be added or removed depending on the particular applications. One of ordinary skill in the art would recognize many variations modifications and alternatives.

CRM or memory may further comprise any suitable code. The code may be suitable to perform any or all of the functionality of user mobile device as described herein. In some embodiments CRM or memory comprises a code for receiving information from the cloud server computer b code for sending information to the cloud server computer c code for sending information to the issuer computer d code for sending information to the payment processing network computer e code for receiving information from the payment processing network computer and or f code for receiving information from the issuer computer.

User device also comprises a camera . Camera is operable to take pictures i.e. acquire images video etc. and may include any type of image acquiring device known in the art. User device may also comprise a GPS antenna . GPS antenna is operable to receive transmissions from GPS satellites for identifying a location of user device . GPS antenna may include any type of antenna operable to receive transmissions from GPS satellites as is known in the art.

User device may also comprise other elements typically included in a user mobile communication device. For example user device may also include a processor e.g. a microprocessor for processing the functions of the user device and an output device e.g. a display to allow a user to see phone numbers and other information and messages e.g. an authentication request message or a verification message. User device may further include input elements to allow a user to input information into the device a speaker to allow the user to hear voice communication music etc. and a microphone to allow the user to transmit his her voice through user device . User device may also include a cellular antenna for wireless voice and data transfer e.g. voice and data transmission . User device may also include a contactless element which is typically implemented in the form of a semiconductor chip or other data storage element with an associated wireless transfer e.g. data transmission element such as an antenna. Contactless element functions to permit the exchange of data and or control instructions between user mobile device and an optional contactless element included in a merchant access device.

User device may also include an accelerometer . Accelerometer is typically implemented in the form of an integrated circuit chip. Accelerometer can measure the proper acceleration of user mobile device . In some embodiments accelerometer can be a multi axis accelerometer. The accelerometer readings can be communicated to other external systems for further processing.

Although shows a number of components user device according to embodiments of the present invention may comprise any suitable combination or subset of such components.

Any of the software components or functions described in this application may be implemented as software code to be executed by a processor using any suitable computer language such as for example Java C JSON or Perl using for example conventional or object oriented techniques. The software code may be stored as a series of instructions or commands on a computer readable medium such as a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a magnetic medium such as a hard drive or a floppy disk or an optical medium such as a CD ROM. Any such computer readable medium may reside on or within a single computational apparatus and may be present on or within different computational apparatuses within a system or network.

The above description is illustrative and is not restrictive. Many variations of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon review of the disclosure. The scope of the invention should therefore be determined not with reference to the above description but instead should be determined with reference to the pending claims along with their full scope or equivalents.

One or more features from any embodiment may be combined with one or more features of any other embodiment without departing from the scope of the invention.

A recitation of a an or the is intended to mean one or more unless specifically indicated to the contrary.

It should be understood that the present invention as described above can be implemented in the form of control logic using computer software in a modular or integrated manner. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will know and appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the present invention using hardware and a combination of hardware and software.

