---

title: Web searching
abstract: A human or hand-labeled ranking of URL results for a search query is compared against actual click data for the respective query/URL pairs (e.g., which URLs were actually clicked on by users when the URLs were presented to users when the search query was run in the real world). The human ranking or ordering of the URL results (e.g., pre-existing relevance ranking) for the query can then be adjusted, if necessary, based upon the real world click data (e.g., click relevance ranking). The modified pre-existing relevance ranking can be used in providing future search results.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08768919&OS=08768919&RS=08768919
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08768919
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120830
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 893 107 filed on Sep. 29 2010 entitled WEB SEARCHING and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 056 302 filed on Mar. 27 2008 entitled WEB SEARCHING at least some of which may be incorporated herein.

The internet has vast amounts of information distributed over a multitude of computers thereby providing users with large amounts of information on varying topics. This is also true for a number of other communication networks such as intranets and extranets. Finding information from such large amounts of data can be difficult.

Search engines have been developed to address the problem of finding information on a network. Users can enter one or more search terms into a search engine. The search engine will return a list of network locations e.g. uniform resource locators URLs that the search engine has determined contain relevant information. Often search engines rely upon human judges to decide on the relevancy of search results. This generally involves a group of relevancy experts employed or otherwise engaged by a search engine entity to hand label a number of query URL pairs. These labels are used for training ranking algorithms relevance evaluation and a variety of other search engine tasks.

Human labeling is an expensive and labor intensive task. Therefore financial and logistical constraints allow a small fraction of query web page pairs to be labeled by experts. Furthermore the quality of the labels is of great importance as labels are also used as ground truth when evaluating relevancy performance of search engines. Unfortunately the quality of some of the human expert labels used in search engines may be less than desirable. Further the quality of labels varies among different judges based on their experience and quality of work. For any given query a significant number of relevancy labels may be inconsistent or incorrect.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

As provided herein the relevance of web based search results can be improved through a method of identifying and correcting mislabeled query URL pairs based upon a click relevance ranking computed from user data comprising user click information. The click relevance ranking is formed by applying a set of relevance ordering rules to user log data aggregated by query and URL and by mapping the results of the relevance ordering rules into a linear ordering. For a given query the aggregated user log data comprises a relative total number of impression a relative total number of clicks received and a rank associated with the query URL pair at the time of the total number of impressions and total number of clicks received. The click relevance ranking is used to identify and correct mislabeled query URL pairs of other rankings according to a number of disclosed methods. Other embodiments and methods are also disclosed.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

At a pre existing relevance ranking is provided for a word query. The pre existing relevance ranking can be a based upon any method or algorithm of relevance ranking. In one embodiment the pre existing relevance ranking is a pre existing ranking that is formed from human expert ranking.

At search result URLs for the word query are click relevance ranked. Click relevance ranking is performed on a plurality of search result query URL pairs and is based on user log information comprising user click data. A set of relevancy ordering rules are applied to the user log information to form a click relevance ranking.

At mislabeled query URL pairs in the pre existing relevance ranking are identified and corrected by utilizing the click relevance ranking. The click relevance ranking and the pre existing relevance ranking are compared using a number of different disclosed methods. The comparison identifies errors in the pre existing relevance ranking. The pre existing relevance ranking is then modified based upon the click relevance ranking to correct the identified errors.

For respective query URL pairs a click rate is calculated at . The click rate is equal to the sum of the total number of impressions for respective ranks divided by the sum of the total number of clicks received for respective ranks.

The click bias is reduced at . Reduction of the click bias is performed by calculating a normalized click rate from the aggregated user log data. The normalized click rate allows an unbiased comparison of the relevance of different query URL pairs associated with the same query. The unbiased comparison mitigates the influence of ranking on query URL pair relevance.

At a click relevance ordering is performed. The click relevance ordering is performed by applying a set of click relevance ordering rules to the aggregated user log data and the normalized click rate to form a relevance hierarchy of query URL pairs. The click relevance ordering rules compare data e.g. normalized click rate total impressions etc. associated with a first URL to data associated with a second URL to determine if the first URL is more relevant than the second URL. Click relevance ordering rules are applied to the different combinations of the URLs for the word query. For some comparisons the click relevance ordering rules may be undecided about the relation between the two URLs.

A directed acyclic graph of the relations between query URL pairs is formed at . The results of the click relevance order of query URL pairs are used to form the acyclic graphic. The acyclic graph provides a graphical representation of the relevance comparisons between query URL pairs associated with the word query.

At the acyclic graph is mapped into a linear ordering. Linear ordering determines query URL pair relations that were undecided by the click relevance ordering rules. Mapping the acyclic graph into a linear ordering can be performed by a number of methods such as flooding for example.

A more detailed example of aggregating user log data is set forth in . shows a table comprising search results for a query URL pair. The user log data comprises a rank a total number of impressions and a total number of clicks received . The rank is a rank assigned to the query URL pair at the time of the search associated with the number of total impressions and the number of total clicks . Since search engines continually update their rankings respective tables can have a plurality of rows e.g. since relevance of a query result generally varies over time . The different rows of is associated with the query URL pair s search result at a particular time. The total number of impressions is the number of pages shown to a user for the word query. The total number of clicks received is the total number of times that a user clicked on the associated query URL pair.

In a more detailed example of a reduction of click bias is set forth in an exemplary table . Reduction of click bias is performed by determining a normalized click rate. The normalized click rate provides a means for a query URL pair with a high ranking to be evenly compared to a query URL pair with a low ranking. To calculate the normalized click rate the aggregated user log data undergoes a number of intermediate calculations. A click rate at rank is calculated by dividing the number of clicks by the number of impressions. For example in the click rate at rank for rank is . A click weight at rank is a function of the rank and the total number of clicks received and is calculated in one example by the formula

A more detailed example of click relevance ordering rules utilized in click relevance ranking is set forth in . In one example the following six click relevance ordering rules illustrated in are utilized if C Cand CR CRand NCR NCR 1 if I Iand CR CRand NCR NCR 2 if I Iand CR 2 CRand NCR NCR 3 if I Iand CR CRand NCR 2 NCR 4 if I 100 and I 100 and CR 5 CRand NCR 0.8 NCR 5 If CR 50 C 6 wherein Cand Care the total number of clicks received CRand CRare the click rate NCRand NCRare the normalized click rate and Iand Iare the total number of impressions for a first URL URL and a second URL URL. It will be appreciated however that these rules are merely exemplary and that different rules may be utilized to determine click relevance.

At the first relevance order rule 1 is applied. If a first URL and a second URL satisfy rule 1 then the first URL is determined to be more relevant than the second URL and the flow chart goes to . If the first and second URL do not satisfy rule 1 then the second rule 2 is applied at to the first and second URLs. If the first URL and the second URL satisfy the second rule 2 then the first URL is more relevant than the second URL. If the first and second URLs do not satisfy the second rule 2 then the third rule is applied at to both URLs. A similar application of rules 3 to 6 applies in to . The click relevance ordering rules are applied to the different combinations for query URL pairs for the word query. It is possible that not all relationships between query URL pairs will be decided by the click relevance ordering rules. In such a situation a subsequent linear order e.g. of provides a click relevance ranking for undecided relationships.

A more detailed example of mapping the acyclic graph into a linear ordering by a flooding technique is set forth in . Initial weighting assignments of the flooding method are shown in . Initially a weight of 1 is assigned to respective vertices of the acyclic graph.

In the weights are flooded from the rightmost leaf nodes to their parent nodes . For example the weight of the leaf nodes URL e.g. 1 and URL e.g. 1 are added to the weight of the parent node URL e.g. 1 to form a new flooded weight of the parent node URL e.g. 1 1 1 3 . show successive steps of the flooding from leaf nodes to parents nodes applied to the acyclic graph of . Once flooding is completed the result provides an ordering of the query URL pairs for the word query according to decreasing weight values. This complete ordering is the click relevance ranking.

Once the URL search results are click relevance ranked the click relevance ranking is used to identify and correct mislabeled URLs in the pre existing relevance ranking of the word query. Exemplary methods are set forth in for utilizing the click relevance ranking to identify and correct mislabeled URLs in a human expert labeled pre existing relevance ranking.

A first embodiment of a method to identify and correct mislabeled query URL pairs is set forth in . The longest common subsequence LCS is found between the click relevance ranking and the human expert ranking . Labels associated with query URL pairs not in the LCS are discarded from the human expert ranking . For example in the LCS is URL URL URL URL and URL. Therefore URL is discarded from the human expert ranking resulting in a human expert ranking of URL URL URL URL and URL.

An additional embodiment of a method used to identify and correct mislabeled query URL pairs is set forth in . The LCS between the human expert ranking and the click relevance ranking is found. Human expert ranking labels associated with query URL pairs that are not in the LCS are replaced with label values interpolated from the click relevance labels . For example in URL is not in the LCS and therefore the human ranking label associated with URL is set equal to a label value interpolated between the click relevance URL label e.g. 5 and the click relevance URL label e.g. 4 .

An additional embodiment of a method used to identify and correct mislabeled query URL pairs is set forth in . In a distribution of the human expert labels is computed. Click relevance labels are then assigned using the distribution of the human expert labels . For example in the distribution of the human expert labels is 1 label 1 label 2 labels 1 label and 1 label . The distribution of the human expert labels is applied to the click relevance labels thereby labeling URL with a 5 URL with a 4 URL and URL with a 3 URL with a 2 and URL with a 1.

In a further embodiment of the embodiments shown in the label associated with the most relevant URL is boosted. Boosting is performed when the click rate of the most relevant URL increases to a value that is above a specified threshold such that the value of the label associated with the most relevant URL is increased by 1. For example in if the click rate of URL was above 100 the value of the label associated with URL would change from 5 to 6.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to apply one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to perform a method of such as the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system configured to improve the relevance rank of web searches for a query. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . For example the storage may comprise an operating system and a search engine in relation to one or more of the embodiments herein. Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. In one configuration computing device includes at least one processing unit and memory . Depending on the exact configuration and type of computing device memory may be volatile such as RAM for example non volatile such as ROM flash memory etc. for example or some combination of the two. In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in memory . For example the memory may comprise a browser in relation to one or more of the embodiments herein.

Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

