---

title: Vaccine composition containing synthetic adjuvant
abstract: Compositions and methods, including vaccines and pharmaceutical compositions for inducing or enhancing an immune response are disclosed based on the discovery of useful immunological adjuvant properties in a synthetic, glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant (GLA) that is provided in substantially homogeneous form. Chemically defined, synthetic GLA offers a consistent vaccine component from lot to lot without the fluctuations in contaminants or activity that compromise natural-product adjuvants. Also provided are vaccines and pharmaceutical compositions that include GLA and one or more of an antigen, a Toll-like receptor (TLR) agonist, a co-adjuvant and a carrier such as a pharmaceutical carrier.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08840908&OS=08840908&RS=08840908
owner: Infectious Disease Research Institute
number: 08840908
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120830
---
The present application is a continuations application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 862 122 filed Sep. 26 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 273 361 which claims priority under to U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 847 404 filed Sep. 26 2006.

This invention was made in part with government support under Grant No. AI 025479 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in this invention.

The present invention relates to the field of pharmaceutical and vaccine compositions. More specifically embodiments described herein relate to pharmaceutical and vaccine compositions as well as related prophylactic and therapeutic methods wherein the compositions comprise a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA .

The immune system of higher organisms has been characterized as distinguishing foreign agents or non self agents from familiar or self components such that foreign agents elicit immune responses while self components are ignored or tolerated. Immune responses have traditionally been characterized as either humoral responses in which antibodies specific for antigens are produced by differentiated B lymphocytes known as plasma cells or cell mediated responses in which various types of T lymphocytes act to eliminate antigens by a number of mechanisms. For example CD4 helper T cells that are capable of recognizing specific antigens may respond by releasing soluble mediators such as cytokines to recruit additional cells of the immune system to participate in an immune response. Also CD8 cytotoxic T cells that are also capable of specific antigen recognition may respond by binding to and destroying or damaging an antigen bearing cell or particle. It is known in the immunological arts to provide certain vaccines according to a variety of formulations usually for the purpose of inducing a desired immune response in a host.

Several strategies for eliciting specific immune responses through the administration of a vaccine to a host include immunization with heat killed or with live attenuated infectious pathogens such as viruses bacteria or certain eukaryotic pathogens immunization with a non virulent infective agent capable of directing the expression of genetic material encoding the antigen s to which an immune response is desired and immunization with subunit vaccines that contain isolated immunogens such as proteins from a particular pathogen in order to induce immunity against the pathogen. See e.g. Liu 1998 4 5 suppl. 515. For certain antigens there may be one or more types of desirable immunity for which none of these approaches has been particularly effective including the development of vaccines that are effective in protecting a host immunologically against human immunodeficiency viruses or other infectious pathogens cancer autoimmune disease or other clinical conditions.

It has long been known that enterobacterial lipopolysaccharide LPS is a potent stimulator of the immune system although its use in adjuvants has been curtailed by its toxic effects. A non toxic derivative of LPS monophosphoryl lipid A MPL produced by removal of the core carbohydrate group and the phosphate from the reducing end glucosamine has been described by Ribi et al 1986 Immunology and Immunopharmacology of Bacterial Endotoxins Plenum Publ. Corp. NY p 407 419 .

A further detoxified version of MPL results from the removal of the acyl chain from the 3 position of the disaccharide backbone and is called 3 O deacylated monophosphoryl lipid A 3D MPL . It can be purified and prepared by the methods taught in GB 2122204B which reference also discloses the preparation of diphosphoryl lipid A and 3 O deacylated variants thereof. For example 3D MPL has been prepared in the form of an emulsion having a small particle size less than 0.2 m in diameter and its method of manufacture is disclosed in WO 94 21292. Aqueous formulations comprising monophosphoryl lipid A and a surfactant have been described in WO9843670A2.

Bacterial lipopolysaccharide derived adjuvants to be formulated in adjuvant combinations may be purified and processed from bacterial sources or alternatively they may be synthetic. For example purified monophosphoryl lipid A is described in Ribi et at 1986 supra and 3 O deacylated monophosphoryl or diphosphoryl lipid A derived from sp. is described in GB 2220211 and U.S. Pat. No. 4 912 094. 3D MPL and the 1 6 glucosamine disaccharides as well as other purified and synthetic lipopolysaccharides have been described WO 98 01139 U.S. Pat. No. 6 005 099 and EP 0 729 473 B1 Hilgers et al. 1986 79 4 392 6 Hilgers et al. 198760 1 141 6 and EP 0 549 074 B1 . Combinations of 3D MPL and saponin adjuvants derived from the bark of have been described in EP 0 761 231 B. WO 95 17210 discloses an adjuvant emulsion system based on squalene tocopherol and polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate TWEEN 80 formulated with the immunostimulant QS21 and optionally including 3D MPL. Despite the accessibility of such combinations the use of adjuvants derived from natural products is accompanied by high production costs inconsistency from lot to lot difficulties associated with large scale production and uncertainty with respect to the presence of impurities in the compositional make up of any given preparation.

Clearly there is a need for improved vaccines and in particular for vaccines that beneficially contain high purity chemically defined adjuvant components that exhibit lot to lot consistency and that can be manufactured efficiently on an industrial scale without introducing unwanted or structurally undefined contaminants. The present invention provides compositions and methods for such vaccines and offers other related advantages.

The present invention in its several embodiments is directed to compositions and methods that advantageously employ the synthetic glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA as an adjuvant and vaccine component. According to one embodiment of the invention described herein there is provided a vaccine composition comprising an antigen and a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA .

In other embodiments there is provided a vaccine composition comprising a an antigen a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and a toll like receptor TLR agonist wherein in certain further embodiments the TLR agonist is selected from lipopolysaccharide peptidoglycan polyl C CpG 3M003 flagellin homolog of eukaryotic ribosomal elongation and initiation factor 4a LeIF and at least one hepatitis C antigen. In another embodiment there is provided a vaccine composition comprising an antigen a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and at least one co adjuvant that is selected from saponins and saponin mimetics. In another embodiment there is provided a vaccine composition comprising an antigen a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and a carrier that comprises at least one of an oil and ISCOMATRIX . In another embodiment there is provided a vaccine composition comprising an antigen a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and one or more of i at least one co adjuvant ii at least one TLR agonist iii at least one imidazoquinoline immune response modifier and iv at least one double stem loop immune modifier dSLIM . In certain further embodiments i the co adjuvant when present is selected from alum a plant alkaloid and a detergent wherein the plant alkaloid is selected from tomatine and the detergent is selected from saponin Polysorbate 80 Span 85 and Stearyl tyrosine ii the TLR agonist when present is selected from lipopolysaccharide peptidoglycan polyl C CpG 3M003 flagellin homolog of eukaryotic ribosomal elongation and initiation factor 4a LeIF and at least one hepatitis C antigen and iii the imidazoquinoline immune response modifier when present is selected from resiquimod R848 imiquimod and gardiquimod. In another embodiment there is provided a vaccine composition comprising an antigen a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and at least one of a co adjuvant and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier wherein the co adjuvant is selected from a cytokine a detergent and a block copolymer or biodegradable polymer and the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier comprises a carrier that is selected from calcium phosphate an oil in water emulsion a water in oil emulsion a liposome a novosome a niosome and a microparticle. In a particular embodiment where a liposome or similar carrier is used the GLA is in the laminar structure of the liposome or is encapsulated. In another particular embodiment where a microparticle is used the microparticle is one that is based on or comprises polymer fat lipids.

In certain further embodiments the cytokine is selected from GM CSF IL 2 IL 7 IL 12 TNF and IFN gamma the block copolymer or biodegradable polymer is selected from Pluronic L121 CRL1005 PLGA PLA PLG and polyl C and the detergent is selected from the group consisting of saponin Polysorbate 80 Span 85 and Stearyl tyrosine.

In other embodiments there is provided a vaccine composition comprising at least one recombinant expression construct which comprises a promoter operably linked to a nucleic acid sequence encoding an antigen and a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA . In one embodiment the recombinant expression construct is present in a viral vector which in certain further embodiments is present in a virus that is selected from an adenovirus an adeno associated virus a herpesvirus a lentivirus a poxvirus and a retrovirus.

According to certain of any of the above described embodiments the GLA is not 3 de O acylated. According to certain of any of the above described embodiments the GLA comprises i a diglucosamine backbone having a reducing terminus glucosamine linked to a non reducing terminus glucosamine through an ether linkage between hexosamine position 1 of the non reducing terminus glucosamine and hexosamine position 6 of the reducing terminus glucosamine ii an O phosphoryl group attached to hexosamine position 4 of the non reducing terminus glucosamine and iii up to six fatty acyl chains wherein one of the fatty acyl chains is attached to 3 hydroxy of the reducing terminus glucosamine through an ester linkage wherein one of the fatty acyl chains is attached to a 2 amino of the non reducing terminus glucosamine through an amide linkage and comprises a tetradecanoyl chain linked to an alkanoyl chain of greater than 12 carbon atoms through an ester linkage and wherein one of the fatty acyl chains is attached to 3 hydroxy of the non reducing terminus glucosamine through an ester linkage and comprises a tetradecanoyl chain linked to an alkanoyl chain of greater than 12 carbon atoms through an ester linkage.

According to certain of any of the above described embodiments that include a TLR agonist the TLR agonist is capable of delivering a biological signal by interacting with at least one TLR that is selected from TLR 2 TLR 3 TLR 4 TLR 5 TLR 6 TLR 7 TLR 8 and TLR 9. In certain further embodiments the TLR agonist is selected from lipopolysaccharide peptidoglycan polyl C CpG 3M003 flagellin homolog of eukaryotic ribosomal elongation and initiation factor 4a LeIF and at least one hepatitis C antigen. In a particular embodiment where a TLR 7 and or TLR 8 agonist is used the TLR 7 and or TLR 8 agonist is entrapped within a vesicle.

According to certain of any of the above described embodiments the vaccine composition is capable of eliciting an immune response in a host. In certain further embodiments the immune response is specific for the antigen. According to certain of any of the above described embodiments the antigen is capable of eliciting in a host an immune response that is selected from a humoral response and a cell mediated response. According to certain of any of the above described embodiments the vaccine composition is capable of eliciting in a host at least one immune response that is selected from a T1 type T lymphocyte response a T2 type T lymphocyte response a cytotoxic T lymphocyte CTL response an antibody response a cytokine response a lymphokine response a chemokine response and an inflammatory response. According to certain of any of the above described embodiments the vaccine composition is capable of eliciting in a host at least one immune response that is selected from a production of one or a plurality of cytokines wherein the cytokine is selected from interferon gamma IFN tumor necrosis factor alpha TNF b production of one or a plurality of interleukins wherein the interleukin is selected from IL 1 IL 2 IL 3 IL 4 IL 6 IL 8 IL 10 IL 12 IL 13 IL 16 IL 18 and IL 23 c production one or a plurality of chemokines wherein the chemokine is selected from MIP 1 MIP 1 RANTES CCL4 and CCL5 and d a lymphocyte response that is selected from a memory T cell response a memory B cell response an effector T cell response a cytotoxic T cell response and an effector B cell response.

According to certain of any of the above described embodiments the antigen is derived from at least one infectious pathogen that is selected from a bacterium a virus and a fungus.

In certain further embodiments the bacterium is an Actinobacterium and in certain still further embodiments the Actinobacterium is a mycobacterium. In certain other related embodiments the mycobacterium is selected from and . In certain other related embodiments the bacterium is selected from and

In certain other related embodiments the virus is selected from a herpes simplex virus a human immunodeficiency virus HIV a feline immunodeficiency virus FIV cytomegalovirus Varicella Zoster Virus hepatitis virus Epstein Barr Virus EBV respiratory syncytial virus human papilloma virus HPV and a cytomegalovirus. According to certain of any of the above described embodiments the antigen is derived from a human immunodeficiency virus which in certain further embodiments is selected from HIV 1 and HIV 2.

In certain other related embodiments the fungus is selected from and . In certain other related embodiments the fungus is a yeast which in certain further embodiments is a wherein in certain still further embodiments the is selected from and

According to certain of any of the above described embodiments the antigen is derived from a parasite which in certain further embodiments is a protozoan which in certain further embodiments is a which in certain still further embodiments is selected from and . In certain other embodiments the parasite is selected from sp and

According to certain of any of the above described embodiments the antigen is derived from at least one cancer cell. In certain further embodiments the cancer cell originates in a primary solid tumor and in certain other embodiments the cancer cell originates in a cancer that is a metastatic or secondary solid tumor and in certain other embodiments the cancer cell originates in a cancer that is a circulating tumor or an ascites tumor. In certain related embodiments the cancer cell originates in a cancer that is selected from cervical cancer ovarian cancer breast cancer prostate cancer fibrosarcoma myxosarcoma liposarcoma chondrosarcoma osteogenic sarcoma chordoma angiosarcoma endotheliosarcoma lymphangiosarcoma pseudomyxoma petitonei lymphangioendotheliosarcoma synovioma mesothelioma Ewing s tumor leiomyosarcoma rhabdomyosarcoma colon carcinoma pancreatic cancer squamous cell carcinoma basal cell carcinoma adenocarcinoma sweat gland carcinoma sebaceous gland carcinoma papillary carcinoma papillary adenocarcinomas cystadenocarcinoma medullary carcinoma bronchogenic carcinoma renal cell carcinoma hepatoma bile duct carcinoma choriocarcinoma seminoma embryonal carcinoma and Wilms tumor. In certain other related embodiments the cancer cell originates in a cancer that is selected from testicular tumor lung carcinoma small cell lung carcinoma bladder carcinoma epithelial carcinoma glioma astrocytoma medulloblastoma craniopharyngioma ependymoma pinealoma hemangioblastoma acoustic neuroma oliodendroglioma meningioma melanoma neuroblastoma retinoblastoma leukemia lymphoma multiple myeloma Waldenstrom s macroglobulinemia and heavy chain disease.

According to certain of any of the above described embodiments the antigen is derived from or is immunologically cross reactive with at least one epitope biomolecule cell or tissue that is associated with an autoimmune disease. In certain further embodiments the epitope biomolecule cell or tissue that is associated with an autoimmune disease is selected from snRNP when the autoimmune disease is systemic lupus erythematosus at least one of thyroglobulin thyrotropin receptor and a thyroid epithelial cell when the autoimmune disease is Graves disease a platelet when the autoimmune disease is thrombocytopenic purpura at least one of pemphigus antigen desmoglein 3 desmoplakin envoplakin and bullous pemphigoid antigen 1 when the autoimmune disease is pemphigus myelin basic protein when the autoimmune disease is multiple sclerosis a pancreatic islet beta cell when the autoimmune disease is type 1 diabetes and an acetylcholine receptor when the autoimmune disease is myasthenia gravis.

In another embodiment there is provided a pharmaceutical composition for inducing or enhancing an immune response comprising a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. In another embodiment there is provided a pharmaceutical composition for inducing or enhancing an immune response comprising an antigen a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. In another embodiment there is provided a pharmaceutical composition for inducing or enhancing an immune response comprising an antigen a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA a toll like receptor TLR agonist and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. In a further embodiment the TLR agonist is selected from lipopolysaccharide peptidoglycan polyl C CpG 3M003 flagellin homolog of eukaryotic ribosomal elongation and initiation factor 4a LeIF and at least one hepatitis C antigen. In another embodiment there is provided a pharmaceutical composition for inducing or enhancing an immune response comprising an antigen a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA at least one co adjuvant that is selected from saponins and saponin mimetics and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. In another embodiment there is provided a pharmaceutical composition for inducing or enhancing an immune response comprising antigen a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier that comprises at least one of an oil and ISCOMATRIX . In another embodiment there is provided a pharmaceutical composition for inducing or enhancing an immune response comprising a an antigen b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA c one or more of i at least one co adjuvant ii at least one TLR agonist iii at least one imidazoquinoline immune response modifier and iv at least one double stem loop immune modifier dSLIM and d a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. In certain further embodiments i the co adjuvant when present is selected from alum a plant alkaloid and a detergent wherein the plant alkaloid is tomatine and the detergent is selected from saponin Polysorbate 80 Span 85 and Stearyl tyrosine ii the TLR agonist when present is selected from lipopolysaccharide peptidoglycan polyl C CpG 3M003 flagellin homolog of eukaryotic ribosomal elongation and initiation factor 4a LeIF and at least one hepatitis C antigen and iii the imidazoquinoline immune response modifier when present is selected from resiquimod R848 imiquimod and gardiquimod.

In another embodiment there is provided a pharmaceutical composition for inducing or enhancing an immune response comprising an antigen a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and at least one co adjuvant and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier wherein the co adjuvant is selected from a cytokine a block copolymer or biodegradable polymer and a detergent and the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier comprises a carrier that is selected from calcium phosphate an oil in water emulsion a water in oil emulsion a liposome and a microparticle. In certain further embodiments the cytokine is selected from GM CSF IL 2 IL 7 IL 12 TNF and IFN gamma the block copolymer or biodegradable polymer is selected from Pluronic L121 CRL1005 PLGA PLA PLG and polyl C and the detergent is selected from the group consisting of saponin Polysorbate 80 Span 85 and Stearyl tyrosine.

In another embodiment there is provided a pharmaceutical composition comprising at least one recombinant expression construct which comprises a promoter operably linked to a nucleic acid sequence encoding an antigen a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. In certain further embodiments the recombinant expression construct is present in a viral vector which in certain further embodiments is present in a virus that is selected from an adenovirus an adeno associated virus a herpesvirus a lentivirus a poxvirus and a retrovirus.

According to certain further embodiments of the above described pharmaceutical compositions the antigen and the GLA are in contact with one another and according to certain other further embodiments of the above described pharmaceutical compositions the antigen and the GLA are not in contact with one another. In certain further embodiments wherein the antigen and the GLA are not in contact with one another they are present in separate containers. In other embodiments there is provided a pharmaceutical composition for inducing or enhancing an immune response comprising a first combination comprising an antigen and a first pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient and a second combination comprising a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and a second pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient wherein the antigen and the GLA are not in contact with one another. In a further embodiment the antigen and the GLA are present in separate containers. In certain related embodiments the first pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient is different from the second pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. In other related embodiments the first pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient is not different from the second pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.

In another embodiment there is provided a method of treating or preventing an infectious disease in a subject having or suspected of being at risk for having the infectious disease the method comprising administering to the subject a vaccine composition that comprises a an antigen and b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA wherein the antigen is derived from or is immunologically cross reactive with at least one infectious pathogen that is associated with the infectious disease and thereby treating or preventing the infectious disease. In another embodiment there is provided a method of treating or preventing an infectious disease in a subject having or suspected of being at risk for having the infectious disease the method comprising administering to the subject a vaccine composition that comprises a an antigen b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and c a toll like receptor TLR agonist wherein the antigen is derived from or is immunologically cross reactive with at least one infectious pathogen that is associated with the infectious disease and thereby treating or preventing the infectious disease. In a further embodiment the TLR agonist is selected from lipopolysaccharide peptidoglycan polyl C CpG 3M003 flagellin homolog of eukaryotic ribosomal elongation and initiation factor 4a LeIF and at least one hepatitis C antigen. In another embodiment there is provided a method of treating or preventing an infectious disease in a subject having or suspected of being at risk for having the infectious disease the method comprising administering to the subject a vaccine composition that comprises a an antigen b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and c at least one co adjuvant that is selected from the group consisting of saponins and saponin mimetics wherein the antigen is derived from or is immunologically cross reactive with at least one infectious pathogen that is associated with the infectious disease and thereby treating or preventing the infectious disease. In another embodiment there is provided a method of treating or preventing an infectious disease in a subject having or suspected of being at risk for having the infectious disease the method comprising administering to the subject a vaccine composition that comprises a an antigen b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and c a carrier that comprises at least one of an oil and ISCOMATRIX wherein the antigen is derived from or is immunologically cross reactive with at least one infectious pathogen that is associated with the infectious disease and thereby treating or preventing the infectious disease. In another embodiment there is provided a method of treating or preventing an infectious disease in a subject having or suspected of being at risk for having the infectious disease the method comprising administering to the subject a vaccine composition that comprises a an antigen b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and c one or more of i at least one co adjuvant ii at least one TLR agonist iii at least one imidazoquinoline immune response modifier and iv at least one double stem loop immune modifier dSLIM wherein the antigen is derived from or is immunologically cross reactive with at least one infectious pathogen that is associated with the infectious disease and thereby treating or preventing the infectious disease. In certain further embodiments i the co adjuvant when present is selected from alum a plant alkaloid and a detergent wherein the plant alkaloid is tomatine and the detergent is selected from saponin Polysorbate 80 Span 85 and Stearyl tyrosine ii the TLR agonist when present is selected from the group consisting of lipopolysaccharide peptidoglycan polyl C CpG 3M003 flagellin homolog of eukaryotic ribosomal elongation and initiation factor 4a LeIF and at least one hepatitis C antigen and iii the imidazoquinoline immune response modifier when present is selected from the group consisting of resiquimod R848 imiquimod and gardiquimod.

In another embodiment there is provided a method of treating or preventing an infectious disease in a subject having or suspected of being at risk for having the infectious disease the method comprising administering to the subject a vaccine composition that comprises a an antigen b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and c at least one of a co adjuvant and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier wherein the co adjuvant is selected from a cytokine a block copolymer or biodegradable polymer and a detergent and the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier comprises a carrier that is selected from the group consisting of calcium phosphate an oil in water emulsion a water in oil emulsion a liposome and a microparticle wherein the antigen is derived from or is immunologically cross reactive with at least one infectious pathogen that is associated with the infectious disease and thereby treating or preventing the infectious disease. In certain further embodiments the cytokine is selected from GM CSF IL 2 IL 7 IL 12 TNF and IFN gamma the block copolymer or biodegradable polymer is selected from Pluronic L121 CRL1005 PLGA PLA PLG and polyl C and the detergent is selected from the group consisting of saponin Polysorbate 80 Span 85 and Stearyl tyrosine.

In another embodiment there is provided a method of treating or preventing an infectious disease in a subject having or suspected of being at risk for having the infectious disease the method comprising administering to the subject a vaccine composition that comprises a at least one recombinant expression construct which comprises a promoter operably linked to a nucleic acid sequence encoding an antigen and b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA wherein the antigen is derived from or is immunologically cross reactive with at least one infectious pathogen that is associated with the infectious disease and thereby treating or preventing the infectious disease. In a further embodiment the recombinant expression construct is present in a viral vector which in certain still further embodiments is present in a virus that is selected from an adenovirus an adeno associated virus a herpesvirus a lentivirus a poxvirus and a retrovirus. According to certain embodiments relating to the above described methods the antigen is derived from at least one infectious pathogen that is selected from a bacterium a virus and a fungus.

In another embodiment there is provided a method of treating or preventing autoimmune disease in a subject having or suspected of being at risk for having an autoimmune disease the method comprising administering to the subject a vaccine composition that comprises a an antigen and b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA wherein the antigen is derived from or is immunologically cross reactive with at least one epitope biomolecule cell or tissue that is associated with the autoimmune disease and thereby treating or preventing the autoimmune disease. In another embodiment there is provided a method of treating or preventing an autoimmune disease in a subject having or suspected of being at risk for having an autoimmune disease the method comprising administering to the subject a vaccine composition that comprises a an antigen b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and c a toll like receptor TLR agonist wherein the antigen is derived from or is immunologically cross reactive with at least one epitope biomolecule cell or tissue that is associated with the autoimmune disease and thereby treating or preventing the autoimmune disease. In certain further embodiments the TLR agonist is selected from lipopolysaccharide peptidoglycan polyl C CpG 3M003 flagellin homolog of eukaryotic ribosomal elongation and initiation factor 4a LeIF and at least one hepatitis C antigen. In another embodiment there is provided a method of treating or preventing an autoimmune disease in a subject having or suspected of being at risk for having an autoimmune disease the method comprising administering to the subject a vaccine composition that comprises a an antigen b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and c at least one co adjuvant that is selected from the group consisting of saponins and saponin mimetics wherein the antigen is derived from or is immunologically cross reactive with at least one epitope biomolecule cell or tissue that is associated with the autoimmune disease and thereby treating or preventing the autoimmune disease. In another embodiment there is provided a method of treating or preventing an autoimmune disease in a subject having or suspected of being at risk for having an autoimmune disease the method comprising administering to the subject a vaccine composition that comprises a an antigen b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and c a carrier that comprises at least one of an oil and ISCOMATRIX wherein the antigen is derived from or is immunologically cross reactive with at least one epitope biomolecule cell or tissue that is associated with the autoimmune disease and thereby treating or preventing the autoimmune disease. In another embodiment there is provided a method of treating or preventing an autoimmune disease in a subject having or suspected of being at risk for having an autoimmune disease the method comprising administering to the subject a vaccine composition that comprises a an antigen b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and c one or more of i at least one co adjuvant ii at least one TLR agonist iii at least one imidazoquinoline immune response modifier and iv at least one double stem loop immune modifier dSLIM wherein the antigen is derived from or is immunologically cross reactive with at least one epitope biomolecule cell or tissue that is associated with the autoimmune disease and thereby treating or preventing the autoimmune disease. In certain further embodiments i the co adjuvant when present is selected from alum a plant alkaloid and a detergent wherein the plant alkaloid is tomatine and the detergent is selected from saponin Polysorbate 80 Span 85 and Stearyl tyrosine ii the TLR agonist when present is selected from the group consisting of lipopolysaccharide peptidoglycan polyl C CpG 3M003 flagellin homolog of eukaryotic ribosomal elongation and initiation factor 4a LeIF and at least one hepatitis C antigen and iii the imidazoquinoline immune response modifier when present is selected from the group consisting of resiquimod R848 imiquimod and gardiquimod.

In another embodiment there is provided a method of treating or preventing an autoimmune disease in a subject having or suspected of being at risk for having an autoimmune disease the method comprising administering to the subject a vaccine composition that comprises a an antigen b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and c at least one of a co adjuvant and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier wherein the co adjuvant is selected from a cytokine a block copolymer or biodegradable polymer and a detergent and the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier comprises a carrier that is selected from the group consisting of calcium phosphate an oil in water emulsion a water in oil emulsion a liposome and a microparticle wherein the antigen is derived from or is immunologically cross reactive with at least one epitope biomolecule cell or tissue that is associated with the autoimmune disease and thereby treating or preventing the autoimmune disease. In a further embodiment the cytokine is selected from GM CSF IL 2 IL 7 IL 12 TNF and IFN gamma the block copolymer or biodegradable polymer is selected from Pluronic L121 CRL1005 PLGA PLA PLG and polyl C and the detergent is selected from the group consisting of saponin Polysorbate 80 Span 85 and Stearyl tyrosine.

In another embodiment there is provided a method of treating or preventing an autoimmune disease in a subject having or suspected of being at risk for having an autoimmune disease the method comprising administering to the subject a vaccine composition that comprises a at least one recombinant expression construct which comprises a promoter operably linked to a nucleic acid sequence encoding an antigen and b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA wherein the antigen is derived from or is immunologically cross reactive with at least one epitope biomolecule cell or tissue that is associated with the autoimmune disease and thereby treating or preventing the autoimmune disease. In a further embodiment the recombinant expression construct is present in a viral vector which in certain further embodiments is present in a virus that is selected from an adenovirus an adeno associated virus a herpesvirus a lentivirus a poxvirus and a retrovirus.

In certain of the above described embodiments as relate to a method of treating or preventing an autoimmune disease the autoimmune disease is selected from Type 1 diabetes rheumatoid arthritis multiple sclerosis systemic lupus erythematosus myasthenia gravis Crohn s disease Graves disease thrombocytopenic purpura and pemphigus. In certain other of the above described embodiments as relate to a method of treating or preventing an autoimmune disease the epitope biomolecule cell or tissue that is associated with an autoimmune disease is selected from snRNP when the autoimmune disease is systemic lupus erythematosus at least one of thyroglobulin thyrotropin receptor and a thyroid epithelial cell when the autoimmune disease is Graves disease a platelet when the autoimmune disease is thrombocytopenic purpura at least one of pemphigus antigen desmoglein 3 desmoplakin envoplakin and bullous pemphigoid antigen 1 when the autoimmune disease is pemphigus myelin basic protein when the autoimmune disease is multiple sclerosis a pancreatic islet beta cell when the autoimmune disease is type 1 diabetes and an acetylcholine receptor when the autoimmune disease is myasthenia gravis.

According to other embodiments there is provided a method of treating or preventing cancer in a subject having or suspected of being at risk for having an cancer the method comprising administering to the subject a vaccine composition that comprises a an antigen and b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA wherein the antigen is derived from or is immunologically cross reactive with at least one epitope biomolecule cell or tissue that is associated with the cancer and thereby treating or preventing the cancer. According to other embodiments there is provided a method of treating or preventing cancer in a subject having or suspected of being at risk for having cancer the method comprising administering to the subject a vaccine composition that comprises a an antigen b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and c a toll like receptor TLR agonist wherein the antigen is derived from or is immunologically cross reactive with at least one epitope biomolecule cell or tissue that is associated with the cancer and thereby treating or preventing the cancer. In certain further embodiments the TLR agonist is selected from lipopolysaccharide peptidoglycan polyl C CpG 3M003 flagellin homolog of eukaryotic ribosomal elongation and initiation factor 4a LeIF and at least one hepatitis C antigen. According to other embodiments there is provided a method of treating or preventing cancer in a subject having or suspected of being at risk for having cancer the method comprising administering to the subject a vaccine composition that comprises a an antigen b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and c at least one co adjuvant that is selected from the group consisting of saponins and saponin mimetics wherein the antigen is derived from or is immunologically cross reactive with at least one epitope biomolecule cell or tissue that is associated with the cancer and thereby treating or preventing the cancer.

According to other embodiments there is provided a method of treating or preventing cancer in a subject having or suspected of being at risk for having cancer the method comprising administering to the subject a vaccine composition that comprises a an antigen b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and c a carrier that comprises at least one of an oil and ISCOMATRIX wherein the antigen is derived from or is immunologically cross reactive with at least one epitope biomolecule cell or tissue that is associated with the cancer and thereby treating or preventing the cancer. According to other embodiments there is provided a method of treating or preventing cancer in a subject having or suspected of being at risk for having cancer the method comprising administering to the subject a vaccine composition that comprises a an antigen b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and c one or more of i at least one co adjuvant ii at least one TLR agonist iii at least one imidazoquinoline immune response modifier and iv at least one double stem loop immune modifier dSLIM wherein the antigen is derived from or is immunologically cross reactive with at least one epitope biomolecule cell or tissue that is associated with the cancer and thereby treating or preventing the cancer. In certain further embodiments i the co adjuvant when present is selected from the group consisting of alum a plant alkaloid and a detergent wherein the plant alkaloid is tomatine and the detergent is selected from saponin Polysorbate 80 Span 85 and Stearyl tyrosine ii the TLR agonist when present is selected from the group consisting of lipopolysaccharide peptidoglycan polyl C CpG 3M003 flagellin homolog of eukaryotic ribosomal elongation and initiation factor 4a LeIF and at least one hepatitis C antigen and iii the imidazoquinoline immune response modifier when present is selected from the group consisting of resiquimod R848 imiquimod and gardiquimod. According to other embodiments there is provided a method of treating or preventing cancer in a subject having or suspected of being at risk for having cancer the method comprising administering to the subject a vaccine composition that comprises a an antigen b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and c at least one of a co adjuvant and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier wherein the co adjuvant is selected from the group consisting of a cytokine a block copolymer or biodegradable polymer and a detergent and the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier comprises a carrier that is selected from the group consisting of calcium phosphate an oil in water emulsion a water in oil emulsion a liposome and a microparticle wherein the antigen is derived from or is immunologically cross reactive with at least one epitope biomolecule cell or tissue that is associated with the cancer and thereby treating or preventing the cancer. In a further embodiment the cytokine is selected from GM CSF IL 2 IL 7 IL 12 TNF and IFN gamma the block copolymer or biodegradable polymer is selected from Pluronic L121 CRL1005 PLGA PLA PLG and polyl C and the detergent is selected from saponin Polysorbate 80 Span 85 and Stearyl tyrosine. According to other embodiments there is provided a method of treating or preventing cancer in a subject having or suspected of being at risk for having cancer the method comprising administering to the subject a vaccine composition that comprises a at least one recombinant expression construct which comprises a promoter operably linked to a nucleic acid sequence encoding an antigen and b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA wherein the antigen is derived from or is immunologically cross reactive with at least one epitope biomolecule cell or tissue that is associated with the cancer and thereby treating or preventing the cancer. In a further embodiment the recombinant expression construct is present in a viral vector which in certain further embodiments is present in a virus that is selected from an adenovirus an adeno associated virus a herpesvirus a lentivirus a poxvirus and a retrovirus.

In certain further embodiments of the above described methods of treating or preventing cancer the antigen is derived from at least one cancer cell which in certain further embodiments originates in a primary solid tumor and in certain other further embodiments originates in a cancer that is a metastatic or secondary solid tumor and in certain other further embodiments originates in a cancer that is a circulating tumor or an ascites tumor. In certain embodiments the cancer cell originates in a cancer that is selected from cervical cancer ovarian cancer breast cancer prostate cancer fibrosarcoma myxosarcoma liposarcoma chondrosarcoma osteogenic sarcoma chordoma angiosarcoma endotheliosarcoma lymphangiosarcoma pseudomyxoma petitonei lymphangioendotheliosarcoma synovioma mesothelioma Ewing s tumor leiomyosarcoma rhabdomyosarcoma colon carcinoma pancreatic cancer squamous cell carcinoma basal cell carcinoma adenocarcinoma sweat gland carcinoma sebaceous gland carcinoma papillary carcinoma papillary adenocarcinomas cystadenocarcinoma medullary carcinoma bronchogenic carcinoma renal cell carcinoma hepatoma bile duct carcinoma choriocarcinoma seminoma embryonal carcinoma and Wilms tumor. In certain other embodiments the cancer cell originates in a cancer that is selected from testicular tumor lung carcinoma small cell lung carcinoma bladder carcinoma epithelial carcinoma glioma astrocytoma medulloblastoma craniopharyngioma ependymoma pinealoma hemangioblastoma acoustic neuroma oliodendroglioma meningioma melanoma neuroblastoma retinoblastoma leukemia lymphoma multiple myeloma Waldenstrom s macroglobulinemia and heavy chain disease.

According to certain further embodiments of any one of the above described methods of treating or preventing infectious disease or autoimmune disease or cancer the step of administering is performed once while in certain other further embodiments of such methods the step of administering is performed at least two times and in certain other further embodiments the step of administering is performed at least three times and in certain other further embodiments the step of administering is performed four or more times. According to certain further embodiments of any one of the above described methods of treating or preventing infectious disease or autoimmune disease or cancer prior to the step of administering the subject is primed with a priming agent that is selected from a bacterial extract a live virus vaccine at least one recombinant expression construct which comprises a promoter operably linked to a nucleic acid sequence encoding the antigen and a viral vector that comprises a promoter operably linked to a nucleic acid sequence encoding the antigen. In a further embodiment the bacterial extract is derived from BCG .

In another embodiment there is provided a method of eliciting or enhancing a desired antigen specific immune response in a subject comprising administering to the subject a vaccine composition that comprises a an antigen and b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA . In another embodiment there is provided a method of eliciting or enhancing a desired antigen specific immune response in a subject comprising administering to the subject a vaccine composition that comprises a an antigen b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and c a toll like receptor TLR agonist. In certain further embodiments the TLR agonist is selected from lipopolysaccharide peptidoglycan polyl C CpG 3M003 flagellin homolog of eukaryotic ribosomal elongation and initiation factor 4a LeIF and at least one hepatitis C antigen. In another embodiment there is provided a method of eliciting or enhancing a desired antigen specific immune response in a subject comprising administering to the subject a vaccine composition that comprises a an antigen b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and c at least one co adjuvant that is selected from the group consisting of saponins and saponin mimetics. In another embodiment there is provided a method of eliciting or enhancing a desired antigen specific immune response in a subject comprising administering to the subject a vaccine composition that comprises a an antigen b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and c a carrier that comprises at least one of an oil and ISCOMATRIX . In another embodiment there is provided a method of eliciting or enhancing a desired antigen specific immune response in a subject comprising administering to the subject a vaccine composition that comprises a an antigen b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and c one or more of i at least one co adjuvant ii at least one TLR agonist iii at least one imidazoquinoline immune response modifier and iv at least one double stem loop immune modifier dSLIM . In certain further embodiments the co adjuvant when present is selected from alum a plant alkaloid and a detergent wherein the plant alkaloid is selected from tomatine and the detergent is selected from saponin Polysorbate 80 Span 85 and Stearyl tyrosine ii the TLR agonist when present is selected from the group consisting of lipopolysaccharide peptidoglycan polyl C CpG 3M003 flagellin homolog of eukaryotic ribosomal elongation and initiation factor 4a LeIF and at least one hepatitis C antigen and iii the imidazoquinoline immune response modifier when present is selected from the group consisting of resiquimod R848 imiquimod and gardiquimod.

In another embodiment there is provided a method of eliciting or enhancing a desired antigen specific immune response in a subject comprising administering to the subject a vaccine composition that comprises a an antigen b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and c at least one of a co adjuvant and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier wherein the co adjuvant is selected from a cytokine a block copolymer a biodegradable polymer and a detergent and the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier comprises a carrier that is selected from calcium phosphate an oil in water emulsion a water in oil emulsion a liposome and a microparticle. In certain further embodiments the cytokine is selected from GM CSF IL 2 IL 7 IL 12 TNF and IFN gamma the block copolymer or biodegradable polymer is selected from Pluronic L121 CRL1005 PLGA PLA PLG and polyl C and the detergent is selected from the group consisting of saponin Polysorbate 80 Span 85 and Stearyl tyrosine.

In another embodiment there is provided a method of eliciting or enhancing a desired antigen specific immune response in a subject comprising administering to the subject a vaccine composition that comprises a at least one recombinant expression construct which comprises a promoter operably linked to a nucleic acid sequence encoding an antigen and b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA . In certain further embodiments the recombinant expression construct is present in a viral vector which in certain further embodiments is present in a virus that is selected from an adenovirus an adeno associated virus a herpesvirus a lentivirus a poxvirus and a retrovirus.

In certain further embodiments of the above described methods of eliciting or enhancing a desired antigen specific response in a subject the GLA is not 3 de O acylated. In certain other further embodiments of the above described methods of eliciting or enhancing a desired antigen specific response in a subject the GLA comprises i a diglucosamine backbone having a reducing terminus glucosamine linked to a non reducing terminus glucosamine through an ether linkage between hexosamine position 1 of the non reducing terminus glucosamine and hexosamine position 6 of the reducing terminus glucosamine ii an O phosphoryl group attached to hexosamine position 4 of the non reducing terminus glucosamine and iii up to six fatty acyl chains wherein one of the fatty acyl chains is attached to 3 hydroxy of the reducing terminus glucosamine through an ester linkage wherein one of the fatty acyl chains is attached to a 2 amino of the non reducing terminus glucosamine through an amide linkage and comprises a tetradecanoyl chain linked to an alkanoyl chain of greater than 12 carbon atoms through an ester linkage and wherein one of the fatty acyl chains is attached to 3 hydroxy of the non reducing terminus glucosamine through an ester linkage and comprises a tetradecanoyl chain linked to an alkanoyl chain of greater than 12 carbon atoms through an ester linkage. In certain related further embodiments the TLR agonist when present is capable of delivering a biological signal by interacting with at least one TLR that is selected from TLR 2 TLR 3 TLR 4 TLR 5 TLR 6 TLR 7 TLR 8 and TLR 9. In certain further embodiments the TLR agonist is selected from lipopolysaccharide peptidoglycan polyl C CpG 3M003 flagellin homolog of eukaryotic ribosomal elongation and initiation factor 4a LeIF and at least one hepatitis C antigen.

In certain further embodiments of the above described methods of eliciting or enhancing a desired antigen specific response in a subject the GLA has the formula 

In certain further embodiments of the above described methods of eliciting or enhancing a desired antigen specific response in a subject the vaccine composition is capable of eliciting an immune response in a host. In certain further embodiments the immune response is specific for the antigen. In certain further embodiments of the above described methods of eliciting or enhancing a desired antigen specific response in a subject the antigen is capable of eliciting in a host an immune response that is selected from a humoral response and a cell mediated response. In certain further embodiments of the above described methods of eliciting or enhancing a desired antigen specific response in a subject the vaccine composition is capable of eliciting in a host at least one immune response that is selected from the group consisting of a T1 type T lymphocyte response a T2 type T lymphocyte response a cytotoxic T lymphocyte CTL response an antibody response a cytokine response a lymphokine response a chemokine response and an inflammatory response. In certain further embodiments of the above described methods of eliciting or enhancing a desired antigen specific response in a subject the vaccine composition is capable of eliciting in a host at least one immune response that is selected from the group consisting of a production of one or a plurality of cytokines wherein the cytokine is selected from the group consisting of interferon gamma IFN and tumor necrosis factor alpha TNF b production of one or a plurality of interleukins wherein the interleukin is selected from IL 1 IL 2 IL 3 IL 4 IL 6 IL 8 IL 10 IL 12 IL 13 IL 16 IL 18 and IL 23 c production one or a plurality of chemokines wherein the chemokine is selected from MIP 1 MIP 1 RANTES CCL4 and CCL5 and d a lymphocyte response that is selected from a memory T cell response a memory B cell response an effector T cell response a cytotoxic T cell response and an effector B cell response.

According to certain other embodiments there is provided a method of preparing a vaccine composition comprising admixing a an antigen and b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA . According to certain other embodiments there is provided a method of preparing a vaccine composition comprising admixing a an antigen b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and c a toll like receptor TLR agonist. In certain further embodiments the TLR agonist is selected from lipopolysaccharide peptidoglycan polyl C CpG 3M003 flagellin homolog of eukaryotic ribosomal elongation and initiation factor 4a LeIF and at least one hepatitis C antigen. According to certain other embodiments there is provided a method of preparing a vaccine composition comprising admixing a an antigen b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and c at least one co adjuvant that is selected from the group consisting of saponins and saponin mimetics. According to certain other embodiments there is provided a method of preparing a vaccine composition comprising admixing a an antigen b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and c a carrier that comprises at least one of an oil and ISCOMATRIX . According to certain other embodiments there is provided a method of preparing a vaccine composition comprising admixing a an antigen b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and c one or more of i at least one co adjuvant ii at least one TLR agonist iii at least one imidazoquinoline immune response modifier and iv at least one double stem loop immune modifier dSLIM . In certain further embodiments i the co adjuvant when present is selected from the group consisting of alum a plant alkaloid and a detergent wherein the plant alkaloid is selected from tomatine and the detergent is selected from saponin Polysorbate 80 Span 85 and Stearyl tyrosine ii the TLR agonist when present is selected from the group consisting of lipopolysaccharide peptidoglycan polyl C CpG 3M003 flagellin homolog of eukaryotic ribosomal elongation and initiation factor 4a LeIF and at least one hepatitis C antigen and iii the imidazoquinoline immune response modifier when present is selected from the group consisting of resiquimod R848 imiquimod and gardiquimod. According to certain other embodiments there is provided a method of preparing a vaccine composition comprising admixing a an antigen b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and c at least one of a co adjuvant and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier wherein the co adjuvant is selected from the group consisting of a cytokine a block copolymer or biodegradable polymer and a detergent and the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier comprises a carrier that is selected from the group consisting of calcium phosphate an oil in water emulsion a water in oil emulsion a liposome and a microparticle. In certain further embodiments the cytokine is selected from GM CSF IL 2 IL 7 IL 12 TNF and IFN gamma the block copolymer or biodegradable polymer is selected from Pluronic L121 CRL1005 PLGA PLA PLG and polyl C and the detergent is selected from saponin Polysorbate 80 Span 85 and Stearyl tyrosine.

According to certain other embodiments there is provided a method of preparing a vaccine composition comprising admixing a at least one recombinant expression construct which comprises a promoter operably linked to a nucleic acid sequence encoding an antigen and b a glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA . In certain further embodiments the recombinant expression construct is present in a viral vector which in certain further embodiments is present in a virus that is selected from an adenovirus an adeno associated virus a herpesvirus a lentivirus a poxvirus and a retrovirus. In certain embodiments the GLA is not 3 de O acylated. In certain embodiments the GLA comprises i a diglucosamine backbone having a reducing terminus glucosamine linked to a non reducing terminus glucosamine through an ether linkage between hexosamine position 1 of the non reducing terminus glucosamine and hexosamine position 6 of the reducing terminus glucosamine ii an O phosphoryl group attached to hexosamine position 4 of the non reducing terminus glucosamine and iii up to six fatty acyl chains wherein one of the fatty acyl chains is attached to 3 hydroxy of the reducing terminus glucosamine through an ester linkage wherein one of the fatty acyl chains is attached to a 2 amino of the non reducing terminus glucosamine through an amide linkage and comprises a tetradecanoyl chain linked to an alkanoyl chain of greater than 12 carbon atoms through an ester linkage and wherein one of the fatty acyl chains is attached to 3 hydroxy of the non reducing terminus glucosamine through an ester linkage and comprises a tetradecanoyl chain linked to an alkanoyl chain of greater than 12 carbon atoms through an ester linkage. In certain embodiments the TLR agonist is capable of delivering a biological signal by interacting with at least one TLR that is selected from TLR 2 TLR 3 TLR 4 TLR 5 TLR 6 TLR 7 TLR 8 and TLR 9. In certain further embodiments the TLR agonist is selected from lipopolysaccharide peptidoglycan polyl C CpG 3M003 flagellin homolog of eukaryotic ribosomal elongation and initiation factor 4a LeIF and at least one hepatitis C antigen.

According to certain embodiments of the above described methods of preparing a vaccine composition the GLA has the formula 

In certain further embodiments the step of admixing comprises emulsifying and in certain other further embodiments the step of admixing comprises forming particles which in certain further embodiments comprise microparticles. In certain other further embodiments the step of admixing comprises forming a precipitate which comprises all or a portion of the antigen and all or a portion of the GLA.

In certain other embodiments there is provided an immunological adjuvant pharmaceutical composition comprising a glycopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. In certain other embodiments there is provided an immunological adjuvant composition comprising a glycopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and a toll like receptor TLR agonist. In certain further embodiments the TLR agonist is selected from lipopolysaccharide peptidoglycan polyl C CpG 3M003 flagellin homolog of eukaryotic ribosomal elongation and initiation factor 4a LeIF and at least one hepatitis C antigen. In certain other embodiments there is provided an immunological adjuvant composition comprising a glycopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and at least one co adjuvant that is selected from saponins and saponin mimetics. In certain other embodiments there is provided an immunological adjuvant pharmaceutical composition comprising a glycopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier that comprises at least one of an oil and ISCOMATRIX . In certain other embodiments there is provided an immunological adjuvant composition comprising a a glycopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and b one or more of i at least one co adjuvant ii at least one TLR agonist iii at least one imidazoquinoline immune response modifier and iv at least one double stem loop immune modifier dSLIM .

In certain further embodiments i the co adjuvant when present is selected from the group consisting of alum a plant alkaloid and a detergent wherein the plant alkaloid is tomatine and the detergent is selected from saponin Polysorbate 80 Span 85 and Stearyl tyrosine ii the TLR agonist when present is selected from the group consisting of lipopolysaccharide peptidoglycan polyl C CpG 3M003 flagellin homolog of eukaryotic ribosomal elongation and initiation factor 4a LeIF and at least one hepatitis C antigen and iii the imidazoquinoline immune response modifier when present is selected from the group consisting of resiquimod R848 imiquimod and gardiquimod.

In certain other embodiments there is provided an immunological adjuvant composition comprising a glycopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and at least one of a co adjuvant and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier wherein the co adjuvant is selected from the group consisting of a cytokine a block copolymer or biodegradable polymer and a detergent and the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier comprises a carrier that is selected from calcium phosphate an oil in water emulsion a water in oil emulsion a liposome and a microparticle. In certain further embodiments the cytokine is selected from GM CSF IL 2 IL 7 IL 12 TNF and IFN gamma the block copolymer or biodegradable polymer is selected from Pluronic L121 CRL1005 PLGA PLA PLG and polyl C and the detergent is selected from the group consisting of saponin Polysorbate 80 Span 85 and Stearyl tyrosine.

In certain other embodiments there is provided a method of altering immunological responsiveness in a host comprising administering to the host an immunological adjuvant pharmaceutical composition that comprises a glycopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient and thereby altering host immunological responsiveness. In certain other embodiments there is provided a method of altering immunological responsiveness in a host comprising administering to the host an immunological adjuvant composition that comprises a glycopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and b a toll like receptor TLR agonist and thereby altering host immunological responsiveness. In certain further embodiments the TLR agonist is selected from lipopolysaccharide peptidoglycan polyl C CpG 3M003 flagellin homolog of eukaryotic ribosomal elongation and initiation factor 4a LeIF and at least one hepatitis C antigen. In certain other embodiments there is provided a method of altering immunological responsiveness in a host comprising administering to the host an immunological adjuvant composition that comprises a glycopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and at least one co adjuvant that is selected from the group consisting of saponins and saponin mimetics and thereby altering host immunological responsiveness. In certain other embodiments there is provided a method of altering immunological responsiveness in a host comprising administering to the host an immunological adjuvant composition that comprises a glycopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier that comprises at least one of an oil and ISCOMATRIX and thereby altering host immunological responsiveness. In certain other embodiments there is provided a method of altering immunological responsiveness in a host comprising administering to the host an immunological adjuvant composition that comprises a glycopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and one or more of i at least one co adjuvant ii at least one TLR agonist iii at least one imidazoquinoline immune response modifier and iv at least one double stem loop immune modifier dSLIM and thereby altering host immunological responsiveness.

In certain further embodiments the co adjuvant when present is selected from alum a plant alkaloid and a detergent wherein the plant alkaloid is tomatine and the detergent is selected from saponin Polysorbate 80 Span 85 and Stearyl tyrosine the TLR agonist when present is selected from lipopolysaccharide peptidoglycan polyl C CpG 3M003 flagellin homolog of eukaryotic ribosomal elongation and initiation factor 4a LeIF and at least one hepatitis C antigen and the imidazoquinoline immune response modifier when present is selected from the group consisting of resiquimod R848 imiquimod and gardiquimod.

In certain other embodiments there is provided a method of altering immunological responsiveness in a host comprising administering to the host an immunological adjuvant composition that comprises a glycopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA and at least one of a co adjuvant and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier wherein the co adjuvant is selected from the group consisting of a cytokine a block copolymer or biodegradable polymer and a detergent and the pharmaceutically acceptable carrier comprises a carrier that is selected from the group consisting of calcium phosphate an oil in water emulsion a water in oil emulsion a liposome and a microparticle and thereby altering host immunological responsiveness. In certain further embodiments the cytokine is selected from GM CSF IL 2 IL 7 IL 12 TNF and IFN gamma the block copolymer or biodegradable polymer is selected from Pluronic L121 CRL1005 PLGA PLA PLG and polyl C and the detergent is selected from the group consisting of saponin Polysorbate 80 Span 85 and Stearyl tyrosine.

In certain further embodiments of the above described methods of altering immunological responsiveness in a host the step of administering is performed one two three four or more times. In certain other further embodiments of the above described methods of altering immunological responsiveness in a host altering immunological responsiveness in the host comprises inducing or enhancing an immune response. In certain other further embodiments of the above described methods of altering immunological responsiveness in a host altering immunological responsiveness in the host comprises down regulating an immune response. In certain further embodiments of the above described methods of altering immunological responsiveness in a host the method further comprises administering simultaneously or sequentially and in either order an antigen that is derived from or is immunologically cross reactive with at least one infectious pathogen that is associated with an infectious disease against which induced or enhanced immunological responsiveness is desired. In certain further such embodiments the step of administering the antigen is performed one two three four or more times. In certain other further embodiments of the above described methods of altering immunological responsiveness in a host the method comprises administering simultaneously or sequentially and in either order an antigen that is derived from or is immunologically cross reactive with at least one epitope biomolecule cell or tissue that is associated with an autoimmune disease and against which down regulated immunological responsiveness is desired. In certain further such embodiments the step of administering the antigen is performed one two three four or more times. In certain other further embodiments of the above described methods of altering immunological responsiveness in a host the method comprises administering simultaneously or sequentially and in either order an antigen that is derived from or is immunologically cross reactive with at least one epitope biomolecule cell or tissue that is associated with a cancer against which induced or enhanced immunological responsiveness is desired. In certain further such embodiments the step of administering the antigen is performed one two three four or more times.

In another embodiment there is provided a kit comprising an immunological adjuvant composition as described above in a first container and an antigen in a second container wherein the immunological adjuvant composition is not in contact with the antigen. In another embodiment there is provided a kit comprising an immunological adjuvant composition as described above in a first container and at least one recombinant expression construct which comprises a promoter operably linked to a nucleic acid sequence encoding an antigen in a second container wherein the immunological adjuvant composition is not in contact with the recombinant expression construct. In certain further embodiments of the just described kit the antigen is derived from at least one infectious pathogen that is selected from a bacteria a virus a yeast and a protozoan. In certain other further embodiments of the just described kit the antigen is derived from at least one cancer cell. In certain other further embodiments of the just described kit the antigen is derived from or is immunologically cross reactive with at least one epitope biomolecule cell or tissue that is associated with an autoimmune disease.

These and other aspects of the present invention will become evident upon reference to the following detailed description and attached drawings. In addition various references are set forth herein which describe in more detail certain aspects of this invention and are therefore incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The present invention in its several embodiments provides vaccine compositions adjuvant compositions and related methods that include the use of a synthetic glucopyranosyl lipid adjuvant GLA . GLA provides a synthetic immunological adjuvant which advantageously relative to adjuvants of the prior art and in particular relative to natural product adjuvants can be prepared in substantially homogeneous form. Moreover GLA can be prepared efficiently and economically through large scale synthetic chemical manufacturing unlike natural product derived adjuvants. As a synthetic adjuvant that is chemically synthesized from defined starting materials to obtain a chemically defined product that exhibits qualitative and quantitative batch to batch consistency GLA thus offers unprecedented benefits including improved product quality control. Surprisingly although 3 acylated monophosphorylated lipid A has been associated with certain toxicities it has been found that when the 2 amine position contains a single acyl chain the molecules retain acceptable safety profiles. Further the synthesis of such compounds is simplified because specific deacylation at the 3 position presents technical challenges. Thus the invention offers further advantages in terms of safety and ease of synthesis.

As described herein GLA containing compositions and methods for their use include in some embodiments the use of GLA by itself with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient for immunological adjuvant activity including adjuvanting in which GLA administration to a subject may be wholly independent of and or separated temporally and or spatially from administration to the subject of one or more antigens against which elicitation or enhancement of an immune response e.g. an antigen specific response in the subject is desired. Other embodiments include the use of GLA in a vaccine composition that also includes one or a plurality of antigens to which an immune response elicited or enhanced by such a vaccine is desired. As described herein these vaccine compositions may in certain related embodiments also include one or more toll like receptor TLR agonist and or one or a plurality of one or more of a co adjuvant an imidazoquinoline immune response modifier and a double stem loop immune modifier dSLIM . In other related embodiments a vaccine composition as provided herein may comprise GLA and one or more recombinant expression constructs each comprising a promoter operably linked to a nucleic acid sequence encoding the antigen against which elicitation or enhancement of an immune response e.g. an antigen specific response in the subject is desired.

As also noted above as a chemically synthesized adjuvant GLA can be prepared in substantially homogeneous form which refers to a GLA preparation that is at least 80 preferably at least 85 more preferably at least 90 more preferably at least 95 and still more preferably at least 96 97 98 or 99 pure with respect to the GLA molecule which comprises i a diglucosamine backbone having a reducing terminus glucosamine linked to a non reducing terminus glucosamine through an ether linkage between hexosamine position 1 of the non reducing terminus glucosamine and hexosamine position 6 of the reducing terminus glucosamine ii an O phosphoryl group attached to hexosamine position 4 of the non reducing terminus glucosamine and iii up to six fatty acyl chains wherein one of the fatty acyl chains is attached to 3 hydroxy of the reducing terminus glucosamine through an ester linkage wherein one of the fatty acyl chains is attached to a 2 amino of the non reducing terminus glucosamine through an amide linkage and comprises a tetradecanoyl chain linked to an alkanoyl chain of greater than 12 carbon atoms through an ester linkage and wherein one of the fatty acyl chains is attached to 3 hydroxy of the non reducing terminus glucosamine through an ester linkage and comprises a tetradecanoyl chain linked to an alkanoyl chain of greater than 12 carbon atoms through an ester linkage. Determination of the degree of purity of a given GLA preparation can be readily made by those familiar with the appropriate analytical chemistry methodologies such as by gas chromatography liquid chromatography mass spectroscopy and or nuclear magnetic resonance analysis.

GLA can be obtained commercially for example from Avanti Polar Lipids Inc. Alabaster AL product number 699800 wherein where R R Rand Rare undecyl and Rand Rare tridecyl .

 Alkyl means a straight chain or branched noncyclic or cyclic unsaturated or saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon containing from 1 to 20 carbon atoms and in certain preferred embodiments containing from 11 to 20 carbon atoms. Representative saturated straight chain alkyls include methyl ethyl n propyl n butyl n pentyl n hexyl and the like including undecyl dodecyl tridecyl tetradecyl pentadecyl hexadecyl heptadecyl octadecyl etc. while saturated branched alkyls include isopropyl sec butyl isobutyl tert butyl isopentyl and the like. Representative saturated cyclic alkyls include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl and the like while unsaturated cyclic alkyls include cyclopentenyl and cyclohexenyl and the like. Cyclic alkyls are also referred to herein as homocycles or homocyclic rings. Unsaturated alkyls contain at least one double or triple bond between adjacent carbon atoms referred to as an alkenyl or alkynyl respectively . Representative straight chain and branched alkenyls include ethylenyl propylenyl 1 butenyl 2 butenyl isobutylenyl 1 pentenyl 2 pentenyl 3 methyl 1 butenyl 2 methyl 2 butenyl 2 3 dimethyl 2 butenyl and the like while representative straight chain and branched alkynyls include acetylenyl propynyl 1 butynyl 2 butynyl 1 pentynyl 2 pentynyl 3 methyl 1 butynyl and the like.

Accordingly in certain embodiments contemplated herein GLA may have any of the above described structures and in certain embodiments it is expressly contemplated that GLA may and in certain other embodiments it is expressly contemplated that GLA may not have any structure of a lipid adjuvant that is disclosed in one or more of U.S. Pat. No. 6 544 518 EP 1531158 WO 2001 036433 WO 97 11708 WO 95 14026 U.S. Pat. No. 4 987 237 JP 63010728 JP 07055906 WO 2000 013029 U.S. Pat. No. 5 530 113 U.S. Pat. No. 5 612 476 U.S. Pat. No. 5 756 718 U.S. Pat. No. 5 843 918 WO 96 09310 U.S. Pub. 2004 161776 U.S. Pub. No. 2003 170249 U.S. Pub. No. 2002 176867 WO 2002 032450 WO 2002 028424 WO 2002 016560 WO 2000 042994 WO 2000 025815 WO 2000 018929 JP 10131046 WO 93 12778 EP 324455 DE 3833319 U.S. Pat. No. 4 844 894 U.S. Pat. No. 4 629 722. According to certain embodiments GLA is not 3 de O acylated.

An antigen for use in certain embodiments of the herein described vaccine compositions and methods employing GLA may be any target epitope molecule including a biomolecule molecular complex including molecular complexes that contain biomolecules subcellular assembly cell or tissue against which elicitation or enhancement of immunreactivity in a subject is desired. Frequently the term antigen will refer to a polypeptide antigen of interest. However antigen as used herein may also refer to a recombinant construct which encodes a polypeptide antigen of interest e.g an expression construct . In certain preferred embodiments the antigen may be or may be derived from or may be immunologically cross reactive with an infectious pathogen and or an epitope biomolecule cell or tissue that is associated with infection cancer autoimmune disease allergy asthma or any other condition where stimulation of an antigen specific immune response would be desirable or beneficial.

Preferably and in certain embodiments the vaccine formulations of the present invention contain an antigen or antigenic composition capable of eliciting an immune response against a human or other mammalian pathogen which antigen or antigenic composition may include a composition derived from a virus such as from HIV 1 such as tat nef gp120 or gp160 human herpes viruses such as gD or derivatives thereof or Immediate Early protein such as ICP27 from HSV1 or HSV2 cytomegalovirus esp. Human such as gB or derivatives thereof Rotavirus including live attenuated viruses Epstein Barr virus such as gp350 or derivatives thereof Varicella Zoster Virus such as gpI II and IE63 or from a hepatitis virus such as hepatitis B virus for example Hepatitis B Surface antigen or a derivative thereof hepatitis A virus hepatitis C virus and hepatitis E virus or from other viral pathogens such as paramyxoviruses Respiratory Syncytial virus such as F and G proteins or derivatives thereof parainfluenza virus measles virus mumps virus human papilloma viruses for example HPV6 11 16 18 etc. flaviviruses e.g. Yellow Fever Virus Dengue Virus Tick borne encephalitis virus Japanese Encephalitis Virus or Influenza virus whole live or inactivated virus split influenza virus grown in eggs or MDCK cells or whole flu virosomes as described by Gluck 1992 10 915 920 or purified or recombinant proteins thereof such as HA NP NA or M proteins or combinations thereof .

In certain other preferred embodiments the vaccine formulations of the present invention contain an antigen or antigenic composition capable of eliciting an immune response against a human or other mammlian pathogen which antigen or antigenic composition may include a composition derived from one or more bacterial pathogens such as spp including and for example capsular polysaccharides and conjugates thereof transferrin binding proteins lactoferrin binding proteins PiIC adhesins for example M proteins or fragments thereof C5A protease lipoteichoic acids spp including also known as for example high and low molecular weight adhesins and invasins spp including for example pertactin pertussis toxin or derivatives thereof filamenteous hemagglutinin adenylate cyclase fimbriae and spp. including for example ESAT6 Antigen 85A B or C spp including spp including enterotoxic for example colonization factors heat labile toxin or derivatives thereof heat stable toxin or derivatives thereof enterohemorragic enteropathogenic for example shiga toxin like toxin or derivatives thereof spp including for example cholera toxin or derivatives thereof spp including spp including for example a Yop protein spp including for example toxins adhesins and invasins and spp including spp. including spp including for example urease catalase vacuolating toxin spp including spp. including spp. including spp. including for example tetanus toxin and derivative thereof for example toxin and derivative thereof for example toxins A or B and derivatives thereof spp. including for example toxin and derivatives thereof spp. including for example diphtheria toxin and derivatives thereof spp. including for example OspA OspC DbpA DbpB for example OspA OspC DbpA DbpB for example OspA OspC DbpA DbpB for example OspA OspC DbpA DbpB spp. including and the agent of the Human Granulocytic Ehrlichiosis spp including spp. including for example MOMP heparin binding proteins for example MOMP heparin binding proteins spp. including spp. including for example the rare outer membrane proteins or other bacterial pathogens.

In certain other preferred embodiments the vaccine formulations of the present invention contain an antigen or antigenic composition capable of eliciting an immune response against a human or other mammalian pathogen which antigen or antigenic composition may include a composition derived from one or more parasites See e.g. John D. T. and Petri W. A. 9Ed. 2006 WB Saunders Philadelphia Bowman D. D. 8Ed. 2002 WB Saunders Philadelphia such as spp. including spp. including for example SAG2 SAG3 Tg34 spp. including spp. including spp. including spp. including spp. including spp. including spp. including or from a helminth capable of infecting a mammal such as i nematode infections including but not limited to and ii trematode infections including but not limited to sp and iii cestode infections including but not limited to and . Certain embodiments may therefore contemplate vaccine compositions that include an antigen derived from spp. and or or derived from yeast such as spp. including spp. including

Other preferred specific antigens for are for example Th Ra12 Tb H9 Tb Ra35 Tb38 1 Erd 14 DPV MTI MSL mTTC2 and hTCC1 WO 99 51748 . Proteins for also include fusion proteins and variants thereof where at least two preferably three polypeptides of are fused into a larger protein. Preferred fusions include Ra12 TbH9 Ra35 Erd14 DPV MTI DPV MTI MSL Erd14DPV MTI MSL mTCC2 Erd14 DPV MTI MSL DPV MTI MSL mTCC2 TbH9 DPV MTI WO 99151748 .

Most preferred antigens for include for example the High Molecular Weight Protein HWMP WO 99 17741 ORF3 EP 366 412 and putative membrane proteins Pmps . Other antigens of the vaccine formulation can be selected from the group described in WO 99128475. Preferred bacterial vaccines comprise antigens derived from spp including for example capsular polysaccharides and conjugates thereof PsaA PspA streptolysin choline binding proteins and the protein antigen Pneumolysin 1989 67 1007 Rubins et al. 25 337 342 and mutant detoxified derivatives thereof WO 90 06951 WO 99 03884 . Other preferred bacterial vaccines comprise antigens derived from spp. including type B for example PRP and conjugates thereof non typeable for example OMP26 high molecular weight adhesins P5 P6 protein D and lipoprotein D and fimbrin and fimbrin derived peptides U.S. Pat. No. 5 843 464 or multiple copy varients or fusion proteins thereof.

Derivatives of Hepatitis B Surface antigen are well known in the art and include inter alia those PreS1 Pars2 S antigens set forth described in European Patent applications EP A414 374 EP A 0304 578 and EP 198474. In one preferred aspect the vaccine formulation of the invention comprises the HIV 1 antigen gp120 especially when expressed in CHO cells. In a further embodiment the vaccine formulation of the invention comprises gD2t as hereinabove defined.

In a preferred embodiment of the present invention vaccines containing the claimed adjuvant comprise antigen derived from the Human Papilloma Virus HPV considered to be responsible for genital warts HPV 6 or HPV 11 and others and the HPV viruses responsible for cervical cancer HPV16 HPV18 and others . Particularly preferred forms of genital wart prophylactic or therapeutic vaccine comprise L1 particles or capsomers and fusion proteins comprising one or more antigens selected from the HPV 6 and HPV 11 proteins E6 E7 L1 and L2. Certain preferred forms of fusion protein include L2E7 as disclosed in WO 96 26277 and proteinD 1 3 E7 disclosed in GB 9717953.5 PCT EP98 05285 . A preferred HPV cervical infection or cancer prophylaxis or therapeutic vaccine composition may comprise HPV 16 or 18 antigens. For example L1 or L2 antigen monomers or L1 or L2 antigens presented together as a virus like particle VLP or the L1 alone protein presented alone in a VLP or caposmer structure. Such antigens virus like particles and capsomer are per se known. See for example WO94 00152 WO94 20137 WO94 05792 and WO93 02184.

Additional early proteins may be included alone or as fusion proteins such as E7 E2 or preferably F5 for example particularly preferred embodiments include a VLP comprising L1E7 fusion proteins WO 96 11272 . Particularly preferred HPV 16 antigens comprise the early proteins E6 or F7 in fusion with a protein D carrier to form Protein D E6 or E7 fusions from HPV 16 or combinations thereof or combinations of E6 or E7 with L2 WO 96 26277 . Alternatively the HPV 16 or 18 early proteins E6 and E7 may be presented in a single molecule preferably a Protein D E6 E7 fusion. Such vaccine may optionally contain either or both E6 and E7 proteins front HPV 18 preferably in the form of a Protein D E6 or Protein D E7 fusion protein or Protein D E6 E7 fusion protein. The vaccine of the present invention may additionally comprise antigens from other HPV strains preferably from strains HPV 31 or 33.

Vaccines of the present invention further comprise antigens derived from parasites that cause Malaria. For example preferred antigens from include RTS S and TRAP. RTS is a hybrid protein comprising substantially all the C terminal portion of the circumsporozoite CS protein of linked via four amino acids of the preS2 portion of Hepatitis B surface antigen to the surface S antigen of hepatitis B virus. Its full structure is disclosed in the International Patent Application No. PCT EP92 02591 published as WO 93 10152 claiming priority from UK patent application No. 9124390.7. When expressed in yeast RTS is produced as a lipoprotein particle and when it is co expressed with the S antigen from HBV it produces a mixed particle known as RTS S.

TRAP antigens are described in the International Patent Application No. PCT GB89 00895 published as WO 90 01496. A preferred embodiment of the present invention is a Malaria vaccine wherein the antigenic preparation comprises a combination of the RTS S and TRAP antigens. Other plasmodia antigens that are likely candidates to be components of a multistage Malaria vaccine are MSP1 AMA1 MSP3 EBA GLURP RAP1 RAP2 Sequestrin PfEMP1 Pf332 LSA1 LSA3 STARP SALSA PfEXP1 Pfs25 Pfs28 PFS27125 Pfs16 Pfs48 45 Pfs230 and their analogues in spp.

Accordingly certain herein disclosed embodiment contemplate an antigen that is derived from at least one infectious pathogen such as a bacterium a virus or a fungus including an Actinobacterium such as or or another mycobacterium a bacterium such as a member of the genus or a virus such as a herpes simplex virus a human immunodeficiency virus HIV a feline immunodeficiency virus FIV cytomegalovirus Varicella Zoster Virus hepatitis virus Epstein Barr Virus EBV respiratory syncytial virus human papilloma virus HPV and a cytomegalovirus HIV such as HIV 1 or HIV 2 a fungus such as and or a yeast including species such as and a parasite such as a protozoan for example a species including and or another parasite such as one or more of and

For example in GLA containing vaccine embodiments containing antigens derived from sp. the antigens may include nucleic acid pathogen derived antigen or antigenic preparations recombinantly produced protein or peptides and chimeric fusion proteins. One such antigen is OspA. The OspA may be a full mature protein in a lipidated form by virtue of its biosynthesis in a host cell Lipo OspA or may alternatively be a non lipidated derivative. Such non lipidated derivatives include the non lipidated NS1 OspA fusion protein which has the first 81 N terminal amino acids of the non structural protein NS1 of the influenza virus and the complete OspA protein and another MDP OspA is a non lipidated form of OspA carrying 3 additional N terminal amino acids.

Compositions and methods are known in the art for identifying subjects having or suspected of being at risk for having an infection with an infectious pathogen as described herein.

For example the bacterium cases tuberculosis TB . The bacteria usually attack the lungs but can also attack the kidney spine and brain. If not treated properly TB disease can be fatal. The disease is spread from one person to another in the air when an infected person sneezes or coughs. In 2003 more than 14 000 cases of TB were reported in the United States.

Although can generally be controlled using extended antibiotic therapy such treatment is not sufficient to prevent the spread of the disease and concerns exist regarding the potential selection for antibiotic resistant strains. Infected individuals may be asymptomatic but contagious for some time. In addition although compliance with the treatment regimen is critical patient behavior is difficult to monitor. Some patients do not complete the course of treatment which can lead to ineffective treatment and the development of drug resistance. e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 7 087 713 

Currently vaccination with live bacteria is the most efficient method for inducing protective immunity against tuberculosis. The most common employed for this purpose is BCG an avirulent strain of . However the safety and efficacy of BCG is a source of controversy and some countries such as the United States do not vaccinate the general public. Diagnosis is commonly achieved using a skin test which involves intradermal exposure to tuberculin PPD protein purified derivative . Antigen specific T cell responses result in measurable induration at the injection site by 48 72 hours after injection which indicates exposure to Mycobacterial antigens. Sensitivity and specificity have however been a problem with this test and individuals vaccinated with BCG cannot be distinguished from infected individuals. e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 7 087 713 

While macrophages have been shown to act as the principal effectors of immunity T cells are the predominant inducers of such immunity. The essential role of T cells in protection against infection is illustrated by the frequent occurrence of in AIDS patients due to the depletion of CD4 T cells associated with human immunodeficiency virus HIV infection. reactive CD4 T cells have been shown to be potent producers of gamma interferon IFN gamma which in turn has been shown to trigger the anti mycobacterial effects of macrophages in mice. While the role of IFN gamma in humans is less clear studies have shown that 1 25 dihydroxy vitamin D3 either alone or in combination with IFN gamma or tumor necrosis factor alpha activates human macrophages to inhibit infection. Furthermore it is known that IFN gamma stimulates human macrophages to make 1 25 dihydroxy vitamin D3. Similarly IL 12 has been shown to play a role in stimulating resistance to infection. For a review of the immunology of infection see Chan and Kaufmann in Pathogenesis Protection and Control Bloom ed. ASM Press. Washington D.C. 1994 .

Existing compounds and methods for diagnosing tuberculosis or for inducing protective immunity against tuberculosis include the use of polypeptides that contain at least one immunogenic portion of one or more proteins and DNA molecules encoding such polypeptides. Diagnostic kits containing such polypeptides or DNA sequences and a suitable detection reagent may be used for the detection of infection in patients and biological samples. Antibodies directed against such polypeptides are also provided. In addition such compounds may be formulated into vaccines and or pharmaceutical compositions for immunization against infection. U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 949 246 and 6 555 653 .

Malaria was eliminated in many parts of the world in the 1960s but the disease still persists and new strains of the disease are emerging that are resistant to existing drugs. Malaria is a major public health problem in more than 90 countries. Nine out of ten cases of malaria occur in sub Saharan Africa. More than one third of the world s population is at risk and between 350 and 500 million people are infected with malaria each year. Forty five million pregnant women are at risk of contracting malaria this year. Of those individuals already infected more than 1 million of those infected die each year from what is a preventable disease. The majority of those deaths are children in Africa.

Malaria is usually transmitted when a person is bitten by an infected female mosquito. To transmit the mosquito must have been infected by having drawn blood from a person already infected with malaria. Malaria is caused by a parasite and the clinical symptoms of the disease include fever and flu like illness such as chills headache muscle aches and tiredness. These symptoms may be accompanied by nausea vomiting and diarrhea. Malaria can also cause anemia and jaundice because of the loss of red blood cells. Infection with one type of malaria if not promptly treated may cause kidney failure seizures mental confusion coma and death.

An in vitro diagnostic method for malaria in an individual is known comprising placing a tissue or a biological fluid taken from an individual in contact with a molecule or polypeptide composition wherein said molecule or polypeptide composition comprises one or more peptide sequences bearing all or part of one or more T epitopes of the proteins resulting from the infectious activity of under conditions allowing an in vitro immunological reaction to occur between said composition and the antibodies that may be present in the tissue or biological fluid and in vitro detection of the antigen antibody complexes formed see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 7 087 231 .

Expression and purification of a recombinant 3D7 AMA 1 ectodomain have been described. Previous methods have produced a highly purified protein which retains folding and disulfide bridging of the native molecule. The recombinant AMA 1 is useful as a diagnostic reagentas well as in antibody production and as a protein for use alone or as part of a vaccine to prevent malaria. U.S. Pat. No. 7 029 685 

Polynucleotides have been described in the art that encode species specific malarial peptide antigens which are proteins or fragments of proteins secreted into the plasma of a susceptible mammalian host after infection as have monoclonal or polyclonal antibodies directed against these antigens. The peptide antigens monoclonal antibodies and or polyclonal antibodies are utilized in assays used to diagnose malaria as well as to determine whether is the species responsible for the infection. U.S. Pat. No. 6 706 872 Species specific malarial peptide antigens have also been reported which are proteins or fragments of proteins secreted into the plasma of a susceptible mammalian host after infection as have monoclonal or polyclonal antibodies directed against these antigens. The peptide antigens monoclonal antibodies and or polyclonal antibodies are utilized in assays used to diagnose malaria as well as to determine whether is the species responsible for the infection see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 231 861 .

A recombinant 3D7 AMA 1 ectodomain has also been expressed by a method that produces a highly purified protein which retains folding and disulfide bridging of the native molecule. The recombinant AMA 1 is useful as a diagnostic reagent for use in antibody production and as a vaccine. U.S. Pat. No. 7 060 276 Similarly known are the expression and purification of a recombinant 3D7 MSP 1 which retains folding and disulfide bridging of the native molecule. The recombinant MSP 1is useful as a diagnostic reagent for use in antibody production and as a vaccine. U.S. Pat. No. 6 855 322 

Diagnostic methods for the detection of human malaria infections to identify a subject having or suspected of being at risk for having an infection with a malaria infectious pathogen are thus known according to these and related disclosures. Specifically for example blood samples are combined with a reagent containing 3 acetyl pyridine adenine dinucleotide APAD a substrate e.g. a lactate salt or lactic acid and a buffer. The reagent is designed to detect the presence of a unique glycolytic enzyme produced by the malaria parasite. This enzyme is known as parasite lactic acid dehydrogenase PLDH . PLDH is readily distinguishable from host LDH using the above described reagent. Combination of the reagent with a parasitized blood sample results in the reduction of APAD. However APAD is not reduced by host LDH. The reduced APAD may then be detected by various techniques including spectral fluorimetric electrophoretic or colorimetric analysis. Detection of the reduced APAD in the foregoing manner provides a positive indication of malaria infection e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 124 141 . In another methodology for diagnosing malaria a polypeptide comprising a characteristic amino acid sequence derived from the antigen GLURP is recognized in a test sample by a specific antibody raised against or reactive with the polypeptide. U.S. Pat. No. 5 231 168 

Leishmaniasis is a widespread parasitic disease with frequent epidemics in the Indian subcontinent Africa and Latin America and is a World Health Organization priority for vaccine development. A complex of different diseases parasites cause fatal infections of internal organs as well as serious skin disease. One of the most devastating forms of leishmaniasis is a disfiguring infection of the nose and mouth. The number of cases of leishmaniasis are increasing and it is now out of control in many areas. Leishmaniasis is also on the rise in some developed countries specifically southern Europe as a result of HIV infection. Available drugs are toxic expensive and require long term daily injections.

Visceral leishmaniasis is the most dangerous of the three manifestations of the disease. It is estimated that about 500 000 new cases of the visceral form kala azar or the killing disease occur each year. More than 200 million people are currently at risk for contracting visceral leishmaniasis. Over 90 percent of visceral leishmaniasis cases occur in India Bangladesh Sudan Brazil and Nepal. Most of the deaths occur in children. Those with the cutaneous forms are often left permanently disfigured. infections are difficult to diagnose and typically involve histopathologic analysis of tissue biopsy specimens. Several serological and immunological diagnostic assays have however been developed. U.S. Pat. No. 7 008 774 Senaldi et al. 1996 193 9 5 Zijlstra et al. 1997 91 671 673 Badaro et al. 1996 J. Inf. Dis. 173 758 761 Choudhary S. et al. 1992 24 32 36 Badaro R. et al. 1986 35 72 78 Choudhary A. et al. 1990 84 363 366 and Reed S. G. et al. 1990 43 632 639 . The promastigotes release metabolic products into the culture medium to produce conditioned medium. These metabolic products are immunogenic to the host. See Schnur L. F. et al. 1972 Isrl. J. Med. Sci. 8 932 942 Sergeiev V. P. et al. 1969 Med. Parasitol. 38 208 212 EI On J. et al. 1979 Exper. Parasitol. 47 254 269 and Bray R. S. et al. 1966 Trans. R. Soc. Trop. Med. Hyg. 60 605 609 U.S. Pat. No. 6 846 648 U.S. Pat. No. 5 912 166 U.S. Pat. No. 5 719 263 U.S. Pat. No. 5 411 865 .

About 40 million people around the world are infected with HIV the virus that causes AIDS. Around 3 million people die of the disease each year 95 percent of them in the developing world. Each year close to 5 million people become infected with HIV. Currently sub Saharan African carries the highest burden of disease but it is quickly spreading to other countries such as India China and Russia. The epidemic is growing most rapidly among minority populations. In the United States there have been more than 950 000 cases of AIDS reported since 1981. AIDS hits people during their most productive years. Women for both biological and social reasons have an increased risk for HIV AIDS.

AIDS is caused by human immunodeficiency virus HIV which kills and damages cells of the body s immune system and progressively destroys the body s ability to fight infections and certain cancers. HIV is spread most commonly by having unprotected sex with an infected partner. The most robust solution to the problem is preventing the virus from spreading. Making a safe effective and affordable HIV vaccine is one way to reach this goal. Across the world fewer than one in five people at high risk for HIV infection have access to effective prevention.

Methods for diagnosing HIV infections are known including by virus culture PCR of definitive nucleic acid sequences from patient specimens and antibody tests for the presence of anti HIV antibodies in patient sera see e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 979 535 6 544 728 6 316 183 6 261 762 4 743 540. 

According to certain other embodiments as disclosed herein the vaccine compositions and related formulations and methods of use may include an antigen that is derived from a cancer cell as may be useful for the immunotherapeutic treatment of cancers. For example the adjuvant formulation may finds utility with tumor rejection antigens such as those for prostate breast colorectal lung pancreatic renal or melanoma cancers. Exemplary cancer or cancer cell derived antigens include MAGE 1 3 and MAGE 4 or other MAGE antigens such as those disclosed in WO99 40188 PRAME BAGE Lage also known as NY Eos 1 SAGE and HAGE WO 99 53061 or GAGE Robbins and Kawakami 1996 8 pps 628 636 Van den Eynde et al. 1997 1998 Correale et al. 1997 89 p. 293. These non limiting examples of cancer antigens are expressed in a wide range of tumor types such as melanoma lung carcinoma sarcoma and bladder carcinoma. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 544 518.

Other tumor specific antigens are suitable for use with GLA according to certain presently disclosed embodiments include but are not restricted to tumor specific or tumor associated gangliosides such as GM and GMor conjugates thereof to carrier proteins or an antigen for use in a GLA vaccine composition for eliciting or enhancing an anti cancer immune response may be a self peptide hormone such as whole length Gonadotrophin hormone releasing hormone GnRH WO 95 20600 a short 10 amino acid long peptide useful in the treatment of many cancers. In another embodiment prostate antigens are used such as Prostate specific antigen PSA PAP PSCA e.g. 95 4 1735 1740 1998 PSMA or in a preferred embodiment an antigen known as Prostase. e.g. Nelson et al. 1999 96 3114 3119 Ferguson et al. 1999. 96 3114 3119 WO 98 12302 U.S. Pat. No. 5 955 306 WO 98 20117 U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 840 871 and 5 786 148 WO 00 04149. Other prostate specific antigens are known from WO 98 137418 and WO 004149. Another is STEAP PNAS 96 14523 14528 7 12 1999 .

Other tumor associated antigens useful in the context of the present invention include Plu 1 274 22 15633 15645 1999 HASH 1 HasH 2 Cripto Salomon et al 199 21 61 70 U.S. Pat. No. 5 654 140 and Criptin U.S. Pat. No. 5 981 215 . Additionally antigens particularly relevant for vaccines in the therapy of cancer also comprise tyrosinase and survivin.

The herein disclosed embodiments pertaining to GLA containing vaccine compositions comprising a cancer antigen will be useful against any cancer characterised by tumor associated antigen expression such as HER 2 neu expression or other cancer specific or cancer associated antigens.

Diagnosis of cancer in a subject having or suspected of being at risk for having cancer may be accomplished by any of a wide range of art accepted methodologies which may vary depending on a variety of factors including clinical presentation degree of progression of the cancer the type of cancer and other factors. Examples of cancer diagnostics include histopathological histocytochemical immunohistocytochemical and immunohistopathological examination of patient samples e.g. blood skin biopsy other tissue biopsy surgical specimens etc. PCR tests for defined genetic e.g. nucleic acid markers serological tests for circulating cancer associated antigens or cells bearing such antigens or for antibodies of defined specificity or other methodologies with which those skilled in the art will be familiar. See e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 734 172 6 770 445 6 893 820 6 979 730 7 060 802 7 030 232 6 933 123 6 682 901 6 587 792 6 512 102 7 078 180 7 070 931 JP5 328975 Waslylyk et al. 1993 211 7 18.

Vaccine compositions and methods according to certain embodiments of the present invention may also be used for the prophylaxis or therapy of autoimmune diseases which include diseases conditions or disorders wherein a host s or subject s immune system detrimentally mediates an immune response that is directed against self tissues cells biomolecules e.g. peptides polypeptides proteins glycoproteins lipoproteins proteolipids lipids glycolipids nucleic acids such as RNA and DNA oligosaccharides polysaccharides proteoglycans glycosaminoglycans or the like and other molecular components of the subjects cells and tissues or epitopes e.g. specific immunologically defined recognition structures such as those recognized by an antibody variable region complementarity determining region CDR or by a T cell receptor CDR.

Autoimmune diseases are thus characterized by an abnormal immune response involving either cells or antibodies that are in either case directed against normal autologous tissues. Autoimmune diseases in mammals can generally be classified in one of two different categories cell mediated disease i.e. T cell or antibody mediated disorders. Non limiting examples of cell mediated autoimmune diseases include multiple sclerosis rheumatoid arthritis Hashimoto thyroiditis type I diabetes mellitus Juvenile onset diabetes and autoimmune uvoretinitis. Antibody mediated autoimmune disorders include but are not limited to myasthenia gravis systemic lupus erythematosus or SLE Graves disease autoimmune hemolytic anemia autoimmune thrombocytopenia autoimmune asthma cryoglobulinemia thrombic thrombocytopenic purpura primary biliary sclerosis and pernicious anemia. The antigen s associated with systemic lupus erythematosus is small nuclear ribonucleic acid proteins snRNP Graves disease is the thyrotropin receptor thyroglobulin and other components of thyroid epithelial cells Akamizu et al. 1996 Kellerman et al. 1995 Raju et al. 1997 and Texier et al. 1992 pemphigus is cadherin like pemphigus antigens such as desmoglein 3 and other adhesion molecules Memar et al. 1996 Stanley 1995 Plott et al. 1994 and Hashimoto 1993 and thrombic thrombocytopenic purpura is antigens of platelets. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 929 796 Gorski et al. Eds. 2001 Kluwer Academic Publishers Norwell M A Radbruch and Lipsky P. E. Eds. . 2001 Springer NY. 

Autoimmunity plays a role in more than 80 different diseases including type 1 diabetes multiple sclerosis lupus rheumatoid arthritis scleroderma and thyroid diseases. Vigorous quantitative estimates of morbidity for most autoimmune diseases are lacking. Most recent studies done in the late 1990s reveal that autoimmune diseases are the third most common major illness in the United States and the most common autoimmune diseases affect more than 8.5 million Americans. Current estimates of the prevalence of the disease range from 5 to 8 percent of the United States population. Most autoimmune diseases disproportionately affect women. Women are 2.7 times more likely than men to acquire an autoimmune disease. Women are more susceptible to autoimmune diseases men appear to have higher levels of natural killer cell activity than do women. Jacobsen et al 84 223 243 1997. 

Autoimmune diseases occur when the immune system mistakes self tissues for nonself and mounts an inappropriate attack. The body can be affected in different ways from autoimmune diseases including for example the gut Crohn s disease and the brain multiple sclerosis . It is known that an autoantibody attacks self cells or self tissues to injure their function and as a result causes autoimmune diseases and that the autoantibody may be detected in the patient s serum prior to the actual occurrence of an autoimmune disease e.g. appearance of clinical signs and symptoms . Detection of an autoantibody thus permits early discovery or recognition of presence or risk for developing an autoimmune disease. Based on these findings a variety of autoantibodies against autoantigens have been discovered and the autoantibodies against autoantigens have been measured in clinical tests e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 919 210 6 596 501 7 012 134 6 919 078 while other autoimmune diagnostics may involve detection of a relevant metabolite e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 659 659 or immunological reactivity e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 614 722 and 5 147 785 4 420 558 5 298 396 5 162 990 4 420 461 4 595 654 5 846 758 6 660 487 .

In certain embodiments the compositions of the invention will be particularly applicable in treatment of the elderly and or the immunosuppressed including subjects on kidney dialysis subjects on chemo therapy and or radiation therapy transplant recipients and the like. Such individuals generally exhibit diminished immune responses to vaccines and therefore use of the compositions of the invention can enhance the immune responses achieved in these subjects.

In other embodiments the antigen or antigens used in the compositions of the invention include antigens associated with respiratory diseases such as those caused or exacerbated by bacterial infection e.g. pneumococcal for the prophylaxis and therapy of conditions such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD . COPD is defined physiologically by the presence of irreversible or partially reversible airway obstruction in patients with chronic bronchitis and or emphysema Am J Respir Crit. Care Med. 1995 November 152 5 Pt 2 S77 121 . Exacerbations of COPD are often caused by bacterial e.g. pneumococcal infection Clin Microbiol Rev. 2001 April 14 2 336 63 .

As described herein certain embodiments of the present invention contemplate vaccine compositions and immunological adjuvant compositions including pharmaceutical compositions that include one or more toll like receptor agonist TLR agonist . Toll like receptors TLR include cell surface transmembrane receptors of the innate immune system that confer early phase recognition capability to host cells for a variety of conserved microbial molecular structures such as may be present in or on a large number of infectious pathogens. e.g. Armant et al. 2002 3 8 reviews3011.1 3011.6 Fearon et al. 1996 272 50 Medzhitov et al. 1997 9 4 Luster 2002 14 129 Lien et al. 2003 4 1162 Medzhitov 2001 1 135 Takeda et al. 2003 21 335 Takeda et al. 2005 17 1 Kaisho et al. 2004 6 1388 Datta et al. 2003 170 4102 .

Induction of TLR mediated signal transduction to potentiate the initiation of immune responses via the innate immune system may be effected by TLR agonists which engage cell surface TLR. For example lipopolysaccharide LPS may be a TLR agonist through TLR2 or TLR4 Tsan et al. 2004 76 514 Tsan et al. 2004 286 C739 Lin et al. 2005 24 206 poly inosine cytidine polyl C may be a TLR agonist through TLR3 Salem et al. 2006 24 5119 CpG sequences oligodeoxynucleotides containing unmethylated cytosine guanosine or CpG dinucleotide motifs e.g. CpG 7909 Cooper et al. 2005 AIDS 19 1473 CpG 10101 Bayes et al. 27 193 Vollmer et al. 5 673 Vollmer et al. 2004 48 2314 Deng et al. 2004 173 5148 may be TLR agonists through TLR9 Andaloussi et al. 2006 54 526 Chen et al. 2006 177 2373 peptidoglycans may be TLR2 and or TLR6 agonists Soboll et al. 2006 75 131 Nakao et al. 2005 174 1566 3M003 4 amino 2 ethoxymethyl dimethyl 6 7 8 9 tetrahydro 1H imidazo 4 5 c quinoline 1 ethanol hydrate Mol. Wt. 318 Da from 3M Pharmaceuticals St. Paul Minn. which is also a source of the related compounds 3M001 and 3M002 Gorden et al. 2005 174 1259 may be a TLR7 agonist Johansen 2005 35 1591 and or a TLR8 agonist Johansen 2005 flagellin may be a TLR5 agonist Feuillet et al. 2006 103 12487 and hepatitis C antigens may act as TLR agonists through TLR7 and or TLR9 Lee et al. 2006 103 1828 Horsmans et al. 2005 42 724 . Other TLR agonists are known e.g. Schirmbeck et al. 2003 171 5198 and may be used according to certain of the presently described embodiments.

For example and by way of background see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 544 518 immunostimulatory oligonucleotides containing ummethylated CpG dinucleotides CpG are known as being adjuvants when administered by both systemic and mucosal routes WO 96 02555 EP 468520 Davis et al. 1998. 160 2 870 876 McCluskie and Davis 1998 161 9 4463 6 . CpG is an abbreviation for cytosine guanosine dinucleotide motifs present in DNA. The central role of the CG motif in immunostimulation was elucidated by Krieg 374 p 546 1995. Detailed analysis has shown that the CG motif has to be in a certain sequence context and that such sequences are common in bacterial DNA but are rare in vertebrate DNA. The immunostimulatory sequence is often Purine Purine C G pyrimidine pyrimidine wherein the dinucleotide CG motif is not methylated but other unmethylated CpG sequences are known to be immunostimulatory and may be used in certain embodiments of the present invention. CpG when formulated into vaccines may be administered in free solution together with free antigen WO 96 02555 McCluskie and Davis supra or covalently conjugated to an antigen PCT Publication No. WO 98 16247 or formulated with a carrier such as aluminium hydroxide e.g. Davis et al. supra Brazolot Millan et al. 1998 95 26 15553 8 .

The preferred oligonucleotides for use in adjuvants or vaccines of the present invention preferably contain two or more dinucleotide CpG motifs separated by at least three more preferably at least six or more nucleotides. The oligonucleotides of the present invention are typically deoxynucleotides. In a preferred embodiment the internucleotide in the oligonucleotide is phosphorodithioate or more preferably a phosphorothioate bond although phosphodiester and other internucleotide bonds are within the scope of the invention including oligonucleotides with mixed internucleotide linkages. Methods for producing phosphorothioate oligonucleotides or phosphorodithioate are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 666 153 5 278 302 and WO95 26204.

Examples of preferred oligonucleotides have sequences that are disclosed in the following publications for certain herein disclosed embodiments the sequences preferably contain phosphorothioate modified internucleotide linkages 

CPG 7909 Cooper et al. CPG 7909 adjuvant improves hepatitis B virus vaccine seroprotection in antiretroviral treated HIV infected adults. 2005 Sep. 23 19 14 1473 9.

Vollmer J. Progress in drug development of immunostimulatory CpG oligodeoxynucleotide ligands for TLR9. Expert Opinion on Biological Therapy. 2005 May 5 5 673 682

Alternative CpG oligonucleotides may comprise variants of the preferred sequences described in the above cited publications that differ in that they have inconsequential nucleotide sequence substitutions insertions deletions and or additions thereto. The CpG oligonucleotides utilized in certain embodiments of the present invention may be synthesized by any method known in the art e.g. EP 468520 . Conveniently such oligonucleotides may be synthesized utilising an automated synthesizer. The oligonucleotides are typically deoxynucleotides. In a preferred embodiment the internucleotide bond in the oligonucleotide is phosphorodithioate or more preferably phosphorothioate bond although phosphodiesters are also within the scope of the presently contemplated embodiments. Oligonucleotides comprising different internucleotide linkages are also contemplated e.g. mixed phosphorothioate phophodiesters. Other internucleotide bonds which stabilize the oligonucleotide may also be used.

Certain embodiments as provided herein include vaccine compositions and immunological adjuvant compositions including pharmaceutical compositions that contain in addition to GLA at least one co adjuvant which refers to a component of such compositions that has adjuvant activity but that is other than GLA. A co adjuvant having such adjuvant activity includes a composition that when administered to a subject such as a human e.g. a human patient a non human primate a mammal or another higher eukaryotic organism having a recognized immune system is capable of altering i.e. increasing or decreasing in a statistically significant manner and in certain preferred embodiments enhancing or increasing the potency and or longevity of an immune response. See e.g. Powell and Newman Vaccine design The Subunit and Adjuvant Approach 1995 Plenum Press New York In certain embodiments disclosed herein GLA and a desired antigen and optionally one or more co adjuvants may so alter e.g. elicit or enhance an immune response that is directed against the desired antigen which may be administered at the same time as GLA or may be separated in time and or space e.g. at a different anatomic site in its administration but certain invention embodiments are not intended to be so limited and thus also contemplate administration of GLA in a composition that does not include a specified antigen but which may also include one or more of a TLR agonist a co adjuvant an imidazoquinline immune response modifier and a double stem loop immune modifier dSLIM .

Accordingly and as noted above co adjuvants include compositions other than GLA that have adjuvant effects such as saponins and saponin mimetics including QS21 and QS21 mimetics see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 057 540 EP 0 362 279 B1 WO 95 17210 alum plant alkaloids such as tomatine detergents such as but not limited to saponin polysorbate 80 Span 85 and stearyl tyrosine one or more cytokines e.g. GM CSF IL 2 IL 7 IL 12 TNF alpha IFN gamma an imidazoquinoline immune response modifier and a double stem loop immune modifier dSLIM e.g. Weeratna et al. 2005 23 5263 .

Detergents including saponins are taught in e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 544 518 Lacaille Dubois M and Wagner H. 1996 2 363 386 U.S. Pat. No. 5 057 540 Kensil 1996 12 1 2 1 55 and EP 0 362 279 B1. Particulate structures termed Immune Stimulating Complexes ISCOMS comprising fractions of Quil A saponin are haemolytic and have been used in the manufacture of vaccines Morein B. EP 0 109 942 B1 . These structures have been reported to have adjuvant activity EP 0 109 942 B1 WO 96 11711 . The haemolytic saponins QS21 and QS17 HPLC purified fractions of Quil A have been described as potent systemic adjuvants and the method of their production is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 057 540 and EP 0 362 279 B1. Also described in these references is the use of QS7 a non haemolytic fraction of Quil A which acts as a potent adjuvant for systemic vaccines. Use of QS21 is further described in Kensil et al. 1991. J. Immunology 146 431 437 . Combinations of QS21 and polysorbate or cyclodextrin are also known WO 99 10008 . Particulate adjuvant systems comprising fractions of QuilA such as QS21 and QS7 are described in WO 96 33739 and WO 96 11711. Other saponins which have been used in systemic vaccination studies include those derived from other plant species such as and Bomford et al. 10 9 572 577 1992 .

Escin is another detergent related to the saponins for use in the adjuvant compositions of the embodiments herein disclosed. Escin is described in the Merck index 12Ed. entry 3737 as a mixture of saponin occurring in the seed of the horse chestnut tree . Its isolation is described by chromatography and purification Fiedler Arzneimittel Forsch. 4 213 1953 and by ion exchange resins Erbring et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 238 190 . Fractions of escin also known as aescin have been purified and shown to be biologically active Yoshikawa M et al. Chem Pharm Bull Tokyo 1996 August 44 8 1454 1464 . Digitonin is another detergent also being described in the Merck index 12th Ed. entry 3204 as a saponin being derived from the seeds of and purified according to the procedure described by Gisvold et al. 1934 23 664 and Rubenstroth Bauer 1955 301 621.

Other co adjuvants for use according to certain herein disclosed embodiments include a block co polymer or biodegradable polymer which refers to a class of polymeric compounds with which those in the relevant art will be familiar. Examples of a block co polymer or biodegradable polymer that may be included in a GLA vaccine composition or a GLA immunological adjuvant include Pluronic L121 BASF Corp. Mount Olive N.J. see e.g. Yeh et al. 1996 13 1693 U.S. Pat. No. 5 565 209 CRL1005 e.g. Triozzi et al. 1997 3 2355 poly lactic co glycolic acid PLGA poly lactic acid PLA poly D L lactide co glycolide PLG and polyl C. See e.g. Powell and Newman Vaccine design The Subunit and Adjuvant Approach 1995 Plenum Press New York 

Certain embodiments contemplate GLA vaccines and GLA immunological adjuvants that include an oil which in some such embodiments may contribute co adjuvant activity and in other such embodiments may additionally or alternatively provide a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. Any number of suitable oils are known and may be selected for inclusion in vaccine compositions and immunological adjuvant compositions based on the present disclosure. Examples of such oils by way of illustration and not limitation include squalene squalane mineral oil olive oil cholesterol and a mannide monooleate.

Immune response modifiers such as imidazoquinoline immune response modifiers are also known in the art and may also be included as co adjuvants in certain presently disclosed embodiments. Certain preferred imidazoquinoline immune response modifiers include by way of non limiting example resiquimod R848 imiquimod and gardiquimod Hemmi et al. 2002 3 196 Gibson et al. 2002 218 74 Gorden et al. 2005 174 1259 these and other imidazoquinoline immune response modifiers may under appropriate conditions also have TLR agonist activity as described herein. Other immune response modifiers are the nucleic acid based double stem loop immune modifiers dSLIM . Specific examples of dSLIM that are contemplated for use in certain of the presently disclosed embodiments can be found in Schmidt et al. 2006 61 56 Weihrauch et al. 2005 11 16 5993 6001 Modern Biopharmaceuticals J. Kn blein Editor . John Wiley Sons Dec. 6 2005. dSLIM discussed on pages 183 to 200 and from Mologen AG Berlin FRG .

As also noted above one type of co adjuvant for use with GLA as described herein may be the aluminum co adjuvants which are generally referred to as alum. Alum co adjuvants are based on the following aluminum oxy hydroxide aluminum hydroxyphosphoate or various proprietary salts. Vaccines that use alum co adjuvants may include vaccines for tetanus strains HPV hepatitis A inactivated polio virus and other antigens as described herein. Alum co adjuvants are advantageous because they have a good safety record augment antibody responses stabilize antigens and are relatively simple for large scale production. Edelman 2002 21 129 148 Edelman R. 1980 2 370 383. 

Other co adjuvants that may be combined with GLA for effective immune stimulation include saponins and saponin mimetics including QS21 and structurally related compounds conferring similar effects and referred to herein as QS21 mimetics. QS21 has been recognized as a preferred co adjuvant. QS21 may comprise an HPLC purified non toxic fraction derived from the bark of . The production of QS21 is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 057 540. See also U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 936 255 7 029 678 and 6 932 972. 

GLA may also in certain embodiments be combined with immunostimulatory complexes known as ISCOMS e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 869 607 6 846 489 6 027 732 4 981 684 including saponin derived ISCOMATRIX which is commercially available for example from Iscotec Stockholm Sweden and CSL Ltd. Parkville Victoria Australia .

According to certain herein disclosed embodiments the GLA vaccine composition may contain at least one recombinant expression construct which comprises a promoter operably linked to a nucleic acid sequence encoding an antigen. In certain further embodiments the recombinant expression construct is present in a viral vector such as an adenovirus adeno associated virus herpesvirus lentivirus poxvirus or retrovirus vector. Compositions and methods for making and using such expression constructs and vectors are known in the art for the expression of polypeptide antigens as provided herein for example according to Ausubel et al. Eds. Current Protocols in Molecular Biology 2006 John Wiley Sons NY. Non limiting examples of recombinant expression constructs generally can be found for instance in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 844 192 7 037 712 7 052 904 7 001 770 6 106 824 5 693 531 6 613 892 6 875 610 7 067 310 6 218 186 6 783 981 7 052 904 6 783 981 6 734 172 6 713 068 5 795 577 and 6 770 445 and elsewhere with teachings that can be adapted to the expression of polypeptide antigens as provided herein for use in certain presently disclosed embodiments.

The invention thus provides compositions for altering i.e. increasing or decreasing in a statistically significant manner for example relative to an appropriate control as will be familiar to persons skilled in the art immune responses in a host capable of mounting an immune response. As will be known to persons having ordinary skill in the art an immune response may be any active alteration of the immune status of a host which may include any alteration in the structure or function of one or more tissues organs cells or molecules that participate in maintenance and or regulation of host immune status. Typically immune responses may be detected by any of a variety of well known parameters including but not limited to in vivo or in vitro determination of soluble immunoglobulins or antibodies soluble mediators such as cytokines lymphokines chemokines hormones growth factors and the like as well as other soluble small peptide carbohydrate nucleotide and or lipid mediators cellular activation state changes as determined by altered functional or structural properties of cells of the immune system for example cell proliferation altered motility induction of specialized activities such as specific gene expression or cytolytic behavior cellular differentiation by cells of the immune system including altered surface antigen expression profiles or the onset of apoptosis programmed cell death or any other criterion by which the presence of an immune response may be detected.

Immune responses may often be regarded for instance as discrimination between self and non self structures by the cells and tissues of a host s immune system at the molecular and cellular levels but the invention should not be so limited. For example immune responses may also include immune system state changes that result from immune recognition of self molecules cells or tissues as may accompany any number of normal conditions such as typical regulation of immune system components or as may be present in pathological conditions such as the inappropriate autoimmune responses observed in autoimmune and degenerative diseases. As another example in addition to induction by up regulation of particular immune system activities such as antibody and or cytokine production or activation of cell mediated immunity immune responses may also include suppression attenuation or any other down regulation of detectable immunity which may be the consequence of the antigen selected the route of antigen administration specific tolerance induction or other factors.

Determination of the induction of an immune response by the vaccines of the present invention may be established by any of a number of well known immunological assays with which those having ordinary skill in the art will be readily familiar. Such assays include but need not be limited to to in vivo or in vitro determination of soluble antibodies soluble mediators such as cytokines lymphokines chemokines hormones growth factors and the like as well as other soluble small peptide carbohydrate nucleotide and or lipid mediators cellular activation state changes as determined by altered functional or structural properties of cells of the immune system for example cell proliferation altered motility induction of specialized activities such as specific gene expression or cytolytic behavior cellular differentiation by cells of the immune system including altered surface antigen expression profiles or the onset of apoptosis programmed cell death . Procedures for performing these and similar assays are widely known and may be found for example in Lefkovits 1998 see also see also e.g. Weir 1986 Blackwell Scientific Boston Mass. Mishell and Shigii eds. 1979 Freeman Publishing San Francisco Calif. Green and Reed 1998 281 1309 and references cited therein. .

Detection of the proliferation of antigen reactive T cells may be accomplished by a variety of known techniques. For example T cell proliferation can be detected by measuring the rate of DNA synthesis and antigen specificity can be determined by controlling the stimuli such as for example a specific desired antigen or a control antigen pulsed antigen presenting cells to which candidate antigen reactive T cells are exposed. T cells which have been stimulated to proliferate exhibit an increased rate of DNA synthesis. A typical way to measure the rate of DNA synthesis is for example by pulse labeling cultures of T cells with tritiated thymidine a nucleoside precursor which is incorporated into newly synthesized DNA. The amount of tritiated thymidine incorporated can be determined using a liquid scintillation spectrophotometer. Other ways to detect T cell proliferation include measuring increases in interleukin 2 IL 2 production Ca flux or dye uptake such as 3 4 5 dimethylthiazol 2 yl 2 5 diphenyl tetrazolium. Alternatively synthesis of lymphokines such as interferon gamma can be measured or the relative number of T cells that can respond to a particular antigen may be quantified.

Detection of antigen specific antibody production may be achieved for example by assaying a sample e.g. an immunoglobulin containing sample such as serum plasma or blood from a host treated with a vaccine according to the present invention using in vitro methodologies such as radioimmunoassay RIA enzyme linked immunosorbent assays ELISA equilibrium dialysis or solid phase immunoblotting including Western blotting. In preferred embodiments ELISA assays may further include antigen capture immobilization of the target antigen with a solid phase monoclonal antibody specific for the antigen for example to enhance the sensitivity of the assay. Elaboration of soluble mediators e.g. cytokines chemokines lymphokines prostaglandins etc. may also be readily determined by enzyme linked immunosorbent assay ELISA for example using methods apparatus and reagents that are readily available from commercial sources e.g. Sigma St. Louis Mo. see also R D Systems 2006 Catalog R D Systems Minneapolis Minn. .

Any number of other immunological parameters may be monitored using routine assays that are well known in the art. These may include for example antibody dependent cell mediated cytotoxicity ADCC assays secondary in vitro antibody responses flow immunocytofluorimetric analysis of various peripheral blood or lymphoid mononuclear cell subpopulations using well established marker antigen systems immunohistochemistry or other relevant assays. These and other assays may be found for example in Rose et al. Eds. 5Ed. 1997 American Society of Microbiology Washington D.C.

Accordingly it is contemplated that the vaccine and adjuvant compositions provided herein will be capable of eliciting or enhancing in a host at least one immune response that is selected from a T1 type T lymphocyte response a T2 type T lymphocyte response a cytotoxic T lymphocyte CTL response an antibody response a cytokine response a lymphokine response a chemokine response and an inflammatory response. In certain embodiments the immune response may comprise at least one of production of one or a plurality of cytokines wherein the cytokine is selected from interferon gamma IFN tumor necrosis factor alpha TNF production of one or a plurality of interleukins wherein the interleukin is selected from IL 1 IL 2 IL 3 IL 4 IL 6 IL 8 IL 10 IL 12 IL 13 IL 16 IL 18 and IL 23 production one or a plurality of chemokines wherein the chemokine is selected from MIP 1 MIP 1 RANTES CCL4 and CCL5 and a lymphocyte response that is selected from a memory T cell response a memory B cell response an effector T cell response a cytotoxic T cell response and an effector B cell response. See e.g. WO 94 00153 WO 95 17209 WO 96 02555 U.S. Pat. No. 6 692 752 U.S. Pat. No. 7 084 256 U.S. Pat. No. 6 977 073 U.S. Pat. No. 6 749 856 U.S. Pat. No. 6 733 763 U.S. Pat. No. 6 797 276 U.S. Pat. No. 6 752 995 U.S. Pat. No. 6 057 427 U.S. Pat. No. 6 472 515 U.S. Pat. No. 6 309 847 U.S. Pat. No. 6 969 704 U.S. Pat. No. 6 120 769 U.S. Pat. No. 5 993 800 U.S. Pat. No. 5 595 888 Smith et al. 1987 J Biol. Chem. 262 6951 Kriegler et al. 1988 Cell 53 45 53 Beutler et al. 1986 Nature 320 584 U.S. Pat. No. 6 991 791 U.S. Pat. No. 6 654 462 U.S. Pat. No. 6 375 944.

Pharmaceutical compositions generally comprise GLA available from Avanti Polar Lipids Inc. Alabaster Ala. product number 699800 and may further comprise one or more components as provided herein that are selected from antigen TLR agonist co adjuvant including optionally a cytokine an imidazoquinoline immune response modifier and or a dSLIM and or a recombinant expression construct in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier excipient or diluent.

Therefore in certain aspects the present invention is drawn to GLA monotherapy wherein GLA as described herein is formulated in a composition that is substantially devoid of other antigens and is administered to a subject in order to stimulate an immune response e.g. a non specific immune response for the purpose of treating or preventing a disease or other condition such as an infection by an organism. In one embodiment for example the compositions and methods of the invention employ a monophosphorylated disaccharide for stimulating an immune response in a subject. In another particular embodiment the compositions and methods employ a 2 monoacyl form of Lipid A for stimulating an immune response in a subject. In another particular embodiment the GLA is in the form of a spray optionally provided in a kit.

The GLA may be preferably formulated in a stable emulsion. In one particular embodiment for example a composition is provided comprising a lipid A derivative in a stable emulsion substantially devoid of other antigens. In another particular embodiment a composition is provided comprising a derivative of 3 acylated monophosphorylated lipid A suitable for use in mammals wherein the 2 amine position has a single acyl chain and that is substantially devoid of other antigens.

In certain other embodiments the pharmaceutical composition is a vaccine composition that comprises both GLA and an antigen and may further comprise one or more components as provided herein that are selected from TLR agonist co adjuvant including e.g. a cytokine an imidazoquinoline immune response modifier and or a dSLIM and the like and or a recombinant expression construct in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier excipient or diluent.

Illustrative carriers will be nontoxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed. For GLA plus nucleic acid based vaccines or for vaccines comprising GLA plus an antigen about 0.01 g kg to about 100 mg kg body weight will be administered typically by the intradermal subcutaneous intramuscular or intravenous route or by other routes.

A preferred dosage is about 1 g kg to about 1 mg kg with about 5 g kg to about 200 g kg particularly preferred. It will be evident to those skilled in the art that the number and frequency of administration will be dependent upon the response of the host. Pharmaceutically acceptable carriers for therapeutic use are well known in the pharmaceutical art and are described for example in Mack Publishing Co. A. R. Gennaro edit. 1985 . For example sterile saline and phosphate buffered saline at physiological pH may be used. Preservatives stabilizers dyes and even flavoring agents may be provided in the pharmaceutical composition. For example sodium benzoate sorbic acid and esters of p hydroxybenzoic acid may be added as preservatives. . at 1449. In addition antioxidants and suspending agents may be used.

 Pharmaceutically acceptable salt refers to salts of the compounds of the present invention derived from the combination of such compounds and an organic or inorganic acid acid addition salts or an organic or inorganic base base addition salts . The compositions of the present invention may be used in either the free base or salt forms with both forms being considered as being within the scope of the present invention.

The pharmaceutical compositions may be in any form which allows for the composition to be administered to a patient. For example the composition may be in the form of a solid liquid or gas aerosol . Typical routes of administration include without limitation oral topical parenteral e.g. sublingually or buccally sublingual rectal vaginal and intranasal e.g. as a spray . The term parenteral as used herein includes iontophoretic e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 033 598 7 018 345 6 970 739 sonophoretic e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 780 212 4 767 402 4 948 587 5 618 275 5 656 016 5 722 397 6 322 532 6 018 678 thermal e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 885 211 6 685 699 passive transdermal e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 598 122 3 598 123 4 286 592 4 314 557 4 379 454 4 568 343 5 464 387 UK Pat. Spec. No. 2232892 U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 871 477 6 974 588 6 676 961 microneedle e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 908 453 5 457 041 5 591 139 6 033 928 administration and also subcutaneous injections intravenous intramuscular intrasternal intracavernous intrathecal intrameatal intraurethral injection or infusion techniques. In a particular embodiment a composition as described herein including vaccine and pharmaceutical compositions is administered intradermally by a technique selected from iontophoresis microcavitation sonophoresis or microneedles.

The pharmaceutical composition is formulated so as to allow the active ingredients contained therein to be bioavailable upon administration of the composition to a patient. Compositions that will be administered to a patient take the form of one or more dosage units where for example a tablet may be a single dosage unit and a container of one or more compounds of the invention in aerosol form may hold a plurality of dosage units.

For oral administration an excipient and or binder may be present. Examples are sucrose kaolin glycerin starch dextrins sodium alginate carboxymethylcellulose and ethyl cellulose. Coloring and or flavoring agents may be present. A coating shell may be employed.

The composition may be in the form of a liquid e.g. an elixir syrup solution emulsion or suspension. The liquid may be for oral administration or for delivery by injection as two examples. When intended for oral administration preferred compositions contain one or more of a sweetening agent preservatives dye colorant and flavor enhancer. In a composition intended to be administered by injection one or more of a surfactant preservative wetting agent dispersing agent suspending agent buffer stabilizer and isotonic agent may be included.

A liquid pharmaceutical composition as used herein whether in the form of a solution suspension or other like form may include one or more of the following carriers or excipients sterile diluents such as water for injection saline solution preferably physiological saline Ringer s solution isotonic sodium chloride fixed oils such as squalene squalane mineral oil a mannide monooleate cholesterol and or synthetic mono or digylcerides which may serve as the solvent or suspending medium polyethylene glycols glycerin propylene glycol or other solvents antibacterial agents such as benzyl alcohol or methyl paraben antioxidants such as ascorbic acid or sodium bisulfite chelating agents such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid buffers such as acetates citrates or phosphates and agents for the adjustment of tonicity such as sodium chloride or dextrose. The parenteral preparation can be enclosed in ampoules disposable syringes or multiple dose vials made of glass or plastic. An injectable pharmaceutical composition is preferably sterile.

In a particular embodiment a pharmaceutical or vaccine composition of the invention comprises a stable aqueous suspension of less than 0.2 um and further comprises at least one component selected from the group consisting of phospholipids fatty acids surfactants detergents saponins fluorodated lipids and the like.

In another embodiment a composition of the invention is formulated in a manner which can be aerosolized.

It may also be desirable to include other components in a vaccine or pharmaceutical composition such as delivery vehicles including but not limited to aluminum salts water in oil emulsions biodegradable oil vehicles oil in water emulsions biodegradable microcapsules and liposomes. Examples of additional immunostimulatory substances co adjuvants for use in such vehicles are also described above and may include N acetylmuramyl L alanine D isoglutamine MDP glucan IL 12 GM CSF gamma interferon and IL 12.

While any suitable carrier known to those of ordinary skill in the art may be employed in the pharmaceutical compositions of this invention the type of carrier will vary depending on the mode of administration and whether a sustained release is desired. For parenteral administration such as subcutaneous injection the carrier preferably comprises water saline alcohol a fat a wax or a buffer. For oral administration any of the above carriers or a solid carrier such as mannitol lactose starch magnesium stearate sodium saccharine talcum cellulose glucose sucrose and magnesium carbonate may be employed. Biodegradable microspheres e.g. polylactic galactide may also be employed as carriers for the pharmaceutical compositions of this invention. Suitable biodegradable microspheres are disclosed for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 897 268 and 5 075 109. In this regard it is preferable that the microsphere be larger than approximately 25 microns.

Pharmaceutical compositions including GLA vaccines and GLA immunological adjuvants may also contain diluents such as buffers antioxidants such as ascorbic acid low molecular weight less than about 10 residues polypeptides proteins amino acids carbohydrates including glucose sucrose or dextrins chelating agents such as EDTA glutathione and other stabilizers and excipients. Neutral buffered saline or saline mixed with nonspecific serum albumin are exemplary appropriate diluents. Preferably product may be formulated as a lyophilizate using appropriate excipient solutions e.g. sucrose as diluents.

As described above in certain embodiments the subject invention includes compositions capable of delivering nucleic acid molecules encoding desired antigens. Such compositions include recombinant viral vectors e.g. retroviruses see WO 90 07936 WO 91 02805 WO 93 25234 WO 93 25698 and WO 94 03622 adenovirus see Berkner 6 616 627 1988 Li et al. 4 403 409 1993 Vincent et al. 5 130 134 1993 and Kolls et al. 91 215 219 1994 pox virus see U.S. Pat. No. 4 769 330 U.S. Pat. No. 5 017 487 and WO 89 01973 recombinant expression construct nucleic acid molecules complexed to a polycationic molecule see WO 93 03709 and nucleic acids associated with liposomes see Wang et al. 84 7851 1987 . In certain embodiments the DNA may be linked to killed or inactivated adenovirus see Curiel et al. 3 147 154 1992 Cotton et al. 89 6094 1992 . Other suitable compositions include DNA ligand see Wu et al. 264 16985 16987 1989 and lipid DNA combinations see Feigner et al. 84 7413 7417 1989 .

In addition to direct in vivo procedures ex vivo procedures may be used in which cells are removed from a host modified and placed into the same or another host animal. It will be evident that one can utilize any of the compositions noted above for introduction of antigen encoding nucleic acid molecules into tissue cells in an ex vivo context. Protocols for viral physical and chemical methods of uptake are well known in the art.

Accordingly the present invention is useful for enhancing or eliciting in a host a patient or in cell culture an immune response. As used herein the term patient refers to any warm blooded animal preferably a human. A patient may be afflicted with an infectious disease cancer such as breast cancer or an autoimmune disease or may be normal i.e. free of detectable disease and or infection . A cell culture is any preparation containing immunocompetent cells or isolated cells of the immune system including but not limited to T cells macrophages monocytes B cells and dendritic cells . Such cells may be isolated by any of a variety of techniques well known to those of ordinary skill in the art e.g. Ficoll hypaque density centrifugation . The cells may but need not have been isolated from a patient afflicted with cancer and may be reintroduced into a patient after treatment.

In certain embodiments a liquid composition intended for either parenteral or oral administration should contain an amount of GLA vaccine composition such that a suitable dosage will be obtained. Typically this amount is at least 0.01 wt of an antigen in the composition. When intended for oral administration this amount may be varied to be between 0.1 and about 70 of the weight of the composition. Preferred oral compositions contain between about 4 and about 50 of the antigen. Preferred compositions and preparations are prepared so that a parenteral dosage unit contains between 0.01 to 1 by weight of active composition.

The pharmaceutical composition may be intended for topical administration in which case the carrier may suitably comprise a solution emulsion ointment or gel base. The base for example may comprise one or more of the following petrolatum lanolin polyethylene glycols beeswax mineral oil diluents such as water and alcohol and emulsifiers and stabilizers. Thickening agents may be present in a pharmaceutical composition for topical administration. If intended for transdermal administration the composition may include a transdermal patch or iontophoresis device. Topical formulations may contain a concentration of the antigen e.g. GLA antigen vaccine composition or GLA e.g. immunological adjuvant composition GLA is available from Avanti Polar Lipids Inc. Alabaster Ala. e.g. product number 699800 of from about 0.1 to about 10 w v weight per unit volume .

The composition may be intended for rectal administration in the form e.g. of a suppository which will melt in the rectum and release the drug. The composition for rectal administration may contain an oleaginous base as a suitable nonirritating excipient. Such bases include without limitation lanolin cocoa butter and polyethylene glycol. In the methods of the invention the vaccine compositions adjuvants may be administered through use of insert s bead s timed release formulation s patch es or fast release formulation s .

Also contemplated in certain embodiments are kits comprising the herein described GLA vaccine compositions and or GLA immunological adjuvant compositions which may be provided in one or more containers. In one embodiment all components of the GLA vaccine compositions and or GLA immunological adjuvant compositions are present together in a single container but the invention embodiments are not intended to be so limited and also contemplate two or more containers in which for example a GLA immunological adjuvant composition is separate from and not in contact with the antigen component. By way of non limiting theory it is believed that in some cases administration only of the GLA immunological adjuvant composition may be performed beneficially whilst in other cases such administration may beneficially be separated temporally and or spatially e.g. at a different anatomical site from administration of the antigen whilst in still other cases administration to the subject is beneficially conducted of a GLA vaccine composition as described herein and containing both antigen and GLA and optionally other herein described components as well.

A container according to such kit embodiments may be any suitable container vessel vial ampule tube cup box bottle flask jar dish well of a single well or multi well apparatus reservoir tank or the like or other device in which the herein disclosed compositions may be placed stored and or transported and accessed to remove the contents. Typically such a container may be made of a material that is compatible with the intended use and from which recovery of the contained contents can be readily achieved. Preferred examples of such containers include glass and or plastic sealed or re sealable tubes and ampules including those having a rubber septum or other sealing means that is compatible with withdrawal of the contents using a needle and syringe. Such containers may for instance by made of glass or a chemically compatible plastic or resin which may be made of or may be coated with a material that permits efficient recovery of material from the container and or protects the material from e.g. degradative conditions such as ultraviolet light or temperature extremes or from the introduction of unwanted contaminants including microbial contaminants. The containers are preferably sterile or sterilizable and made of materials that will be compatible with any carrier excipient solvent vehicle or the like such as may be used to suspend or dissolve the herein described vaccine compositions and or immunological adjuvant compositions and or antigens and or recombinant expression constructs etc.

Emulsion systems may also be used in formulating compositions of the present invention. For example many single or multiphase emulsion systems have been described. Oil in water emulsion adjuvants per se have been suggested to be useful as adjuvant composition EP 0 399 843B also combinations of oil in water emulsions and other active agents have been described as adjuvants for vaccines WO 95 17210 WO 98 56414 WO 99 12565 WO 99 11241 . Other oil emulsion adjuvants have been described such as water in oil emulsions U.S. Pat. No. 5 422 109 EP 0 480 982 B2 and water in oil in water emulsions U.S. Pat. No. 5 424 067 EP 0 480 981 B . The oil emulsion adjuvants for use in the present invention may be natural or synthetic and may be mineral or organic. Examples of mineral and organic oils will be readily apparent to the man skilled in the art.

In a particular embodiment a composition of the invention comprises an emulsion of oil in water wherein the GLA is incorporated in the oil phase. In another embodiment a composition of the invention comprises an emulsion of oil in water wherein the GLA is incorporated in the oil phase and wherein an additional component is present such as a co adjuvant TLR agonist or the like as described herein.

In order for any oil in water composition to be suitable for human administration the oil phase of the emulsion system preferably comprises a metabolizable oil. The meaning of the term metabolizable oil is well known in the art. Metabolizable can be defined as being capable of being transformed by metabolism Dorland s illustrated Medical Dictionary W.B. Saunders Company 25th edition 1974 . The oil may be any vegetable oil fish oil animal oil or synthetic oil which is not toxic to the recipient and is capable of being transformed by metabolism. Nuts such as peanut oil seeds and grains are common sources of vegetable oils. Synthetic oils are also part of this invention and can include commercially available oils such as NEOBEE and others.

Squalene 2 6 10 15 19 23 Hexamethyl 2 6 10 14 18 22 tetracosahexaene for example is an unsaturated oil which is found in large quantities in shark liver oil and in lower quantities in olive oil wheat germ nil rice bran oil and yeast and is a particularly preferred oil for use in this invention. Squalene is a metabolizable oil virtue of the fact that it is an intermediate in the biosynthesis of cholesterol Merck index 10th Edition entry no. 8619 . Particularly preferred oil emulsions are oil in water emulsions and in particular squalene in water emulsions. In addition the most preferred oil emulsion adjuvants of the present invention comprise an antioxidant which is preferably the oil .alpha. tocopherol vitamin E EP 0 382 271 B1 . WO 95 17210 and WO 99 11241 disclose emulsion adjuvants based on squalene alpha tocopherol and TWEEN 80 optionally formulated with the immunostimulants QS21 and or 3D MPL which are discussed above . WO 99 12565 discloses an improvement to these squalene emulsions with the addition of a sterol into the oil phase. Additionally a triglyceride such as tricaprylin CHO may be added to the oil phase in order to stabilize the emulsion WO 98 56414 .

The size of the oil droplets found within the stable oil in water emulsion are preferably less than 1 micron may be in the range of substantially 30 600 nm preferably substantially around 30 500 nm in diameter and most preferably substantially 150 500 nm in diameter and in particular about 150 nm in diameter as measured by photon correlation spectroscopy. In this regard 80 of the oil droplets by number should be within the preferred ranges more preferably more than 90 and most preferably more than 95 of the oil droplets by number are within the defined size ranges The amounts of the components present in the oil emulsions of the present invention are conventionally in the range of from 2 to 10 oil such as squalene and when present from 2 to 10 alpha tocopherol and from 0.3 to 3 surfactant such as polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate. Preferably the ratio of oil alpha tocopherol is equal or less than 1 as this provides a more stable emulsion. Span 85 may also be present at a level of about 1 . In some cases it may be advantageous that the vaccines of the present invention will further contain a stabiliser.

The method of producing oil in water emulsions is well known to the person skilled in the art. Commonly the method comprises the mixing the oil phase with a surfactant such as a PBS TWEEN80 solution followed by homogenization using a homogenizer. For instance a method that comprises passing the mixture once twice or more times through a syringe needle would be suitable for homogenizing small volumes of liquid. Equally the emulsification process in a microfluidiser M110S microfluidics machine maximum of 50 passes for a period of 2 minutes at maximum pressure input of 6 bar output pressure of about 850 bar could be adapted to produce smaller or larger volumes of emulsion. This adaptation could be achieved by routine experimentation comprising the measurement of the resultant emulsion until a preparation was achieved with oil droplets of the required diameter.

This example describes the preparation of a GLA containing adjuvant aqueous formulation. The aqueous formulation of GLA GLA AF contains Water For Injection WFI GLA Avanti Polar Lipids Inc. Alabaster Ala. product number 699800 and 1 palmitoyl 2 oleoyl sn glycero 3 phosphocholine POPC . The formulation was prepared by adding a solution of ethanol and POPC to a pre weighed amount of GLA. This wetted GLA was sonicated for 10 minutes to disperse the GLA as much as possible. The GLA was then dried under nitrogen gas. The dried GLA and POPC were reconstituted with WFI to the correct volume. This solution was sonicated at 60 C. for 15 30 minutes until all the GLA and POPC were in solution. For long term storage GLA AF formulations must be lyophilized. The lyophilization process consisted of adding glycerol to the solution until it was 2 of the total volume. Then the solution was placed in vials in 1 10 mL amounts. The vials were then run through the lyophilization process which consisted of freezing the solution and then putting it under vacuum to draw off the frozen water by sublimation.

This example describes HPLC analysis of a GLA containing adjuvant aqueous formulation. After the formulation was manufactured see Example 1 above certain release and stability tests were conducted to ensure product quality and reproducibility. All formulations were tested for release and long term stability using High Performance Liquid Chromatography HPLC Dynamic Light Scattering DLS and a visual examination. HPLC chromatograms were collected using an Agilent 1100 system and an ESA Corona CAD detector. The method was run using a methanol to chloroform gradient on a Waters Atlantis C18 column. The injections included 2.5 g of GLA Avanti Polar Lipids Inc. Alabaster Ala. product number 699800 GLA AF or MPL GSK Biologicals Rixensart Belgium MPL AF respectively and 0.27 g of synthetic phosphocholine POPC which was used as a solubilizing agent.

The HPLC profiles showed that GLA AF was substantially purer than MPL AF. That is there were fewer contaminant peaks in the GLA AF than in the MPL AF adjuvant formulation. A purer starting product is of tremendous benefit to researchers as the biological response obtained is from the single major component used in the formulations of the GLA.

This example describes preparation of one milliliter of a GLA containing adjuvant oil formulation. GLA 100 micrograms Avanti Polar Lipids Inc. Alabaster Ala. product number 699800 was emulsified in squalene 34.3 mg with glycerol 22.7 mg phosphotidylcholine or lecithin 7.64 mg Pluronic F 68 BASF Corp. Mount Olive N.J. or similar block co polymer 0.364 mg in 25 millimolar ammonium phosphate buffer pH 5.1 using 0.5 mg D L alpha tocopherol as an antioxidant. The mixture was processed under high pressure until an emulsion formed that did not separate and that had an average particle size of less than 180 nm. The emulsion was then sterile filtered into glass unidose vials and capped for longer term storage. This preparation may be used for at least three years when stored at 2 8 C.

This example describes an in vitro model demonstrating an adjuvant effect of GLA. Standard tissue culture methodologies and reagents were employed. Cells of the murine J774 and RAW267.4 macrophage cell line American Type Culture Collection Manassas Va. were maintained according to the supplier s recommendations and cultured as adherent cell monolayers in multiwell dishes. Dendritic cells were derived from bone marrow progenitor cells following a protocol by Xiong et al. J. Biol. Chem. 2004 279 pp 10776 83 . Various adjuvant concentrations of synthetic GLA Avanti Polar Lipids Inc. Alabaster Ala. product number 699800 were achieved by diluting an aqueous adjuvant preparation in cell culture medium DMEM containing 10 fetal bovine serum and cells were maintained for 24 hours at 37 C. in a humidified atmosphere containing 5 CO prior to collection of cell free culture supernatants. Supernatant fluids were assayed for soluble murine cytokines such as IL 12 IL 6 and TNF and chemokines such as RANTES using specific sandwich ELISA assay kits eBiosciences San Diego Calif. for cytokines and R D Systems Minneapolis Minn. for chemokines according to the manufacturer s instructions.

GLA AF induced dose dependent immune responses in mouse macrophage cell lines and primary murine DC characterized by the secretion of cytokines such as IL 12p40 IL 6 and TNF and chemokines like RANTES.

This example describes an in vitro model demonstrating the adjuvant effects of GLA. Standard tissue culture methodologies and reagents were employed.

Cells of the human Mono Mac 6 macrophage cell line American Type Culture Collection Manassas Va. were maintained according to the supplier s recommendations and cultured as adherent cell monolayers in multiwell plates. Dendritic cells were derived from peripheral blood mononuclear cells PBMC following a standard protocol. Various adjuvant concentrations of either synthetic GLA Avanti Polar Lipids Inc. Alabaster Ala. product number 699800 or the natural product MPL GSK Biologicals Rixensart Belgium were achieved by diluting an aqueous adjuvant preparation in cell culture medium DMEM containing 10 fetal bovine serum for MonoMac 6 or 10 human serum for DC and cells were maintained for 24 hours at 37 C. in a humidified atmosphere containing 5 CO prior to collection of cell free culture supernatants. Supernatant fluids were assayed for soluble human cytokines such as IL 1 IL 23 and IL 6 and chemokines such as IP 10 RANTES and MIP 1 using specific sandwich ELISA assay kits eBiosciences San Diego Calif. for cytokines and Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. for chemokines according to the manufacturer s instructions.

GLA AF induced a dose dependent immune response in the human macrophage cell line Mono Mac 6 panels a e and primary DC panels f h characterized by the secretion of cytokines such as IL 1 IL 6 IL 23 and chemokines such as RANTES IP 10 MIP 1 . GLA AF was active at concentrations 5 500 lower compared to MPL AF for all the cytokines and chemokines that were tested.

This example describes an in vitro model demonstrating adjuvant effects of GLA. Standard tissue culture methodologies and reagents were employed.

Human whole blood cells were cultured with various adjuvant concentrations of either synthetic GLA Avanti Polar Lipids Inc. Alabaster Ala. product number 699800 or the natural product MPL GSK Biologicals Rixensart Belgium achieved by diluting an aqueous adjuvant preparation in cell culture medium DMEM containing 10 fetal bovine serum . Blood cells were maintained for 16 hours at 37 C. in a humidified atmosphere containing 5 CO prior to collection of cell free culture supernatants. Supernatant fluids were assayed for soluble human cytokine IL 1 using specific sandwich ELISA assay kit eBiosciences San Diego Calif. according to the manufacturer s instructions.

GLA AF induced a dose dependent immune response in human whole blood cells characterized by the secretion of IL 1 cytokine. In this assay 92 nM of GLA was equivalent in potency to 57 000 nM of MPL AF.

This example describes an in vivo model demonstrating an adjuvant effect of GLA in a vaccine against Influenza. Standard immunological methodologies and reagents were employed Current Protocols in Immunology Coligan et al. Eds. 2006 John Wiley Sons NY .

Mice three Balb c animals per group were immunized twice at three week intervals with the Fluzone vaccine Sanofi Aventis Swiftwater Pa. at 1 25 20 l and 1 250 2 l of the human dosage alone or formulated in i an aqueous emulsion containing GLA Avanti Polar Lipids Inc. Alabaster Ala. product number 699800 20 g per animal for each immunization according to the procedure used in Example 1 above GLA AF or ii a stable emulsion containing GLA Avanti Polar Lipids Inc. Alabaster Ala. product number 699800 20 g per animal for each immunization according to the procedure used in Example 3 above GLA SE . Sera were collected by bleeding animals one week after each immunization and serum levels of total IgG antibodies specific for Fluzone were examined by ELISA according to published methods . . Serum levels of virus neutralizing antibodies were also examined by Hemagglutination Inhibition Assay HAI according to published methods.

Total IgG and neutralizing antibody titers in response to Fluzone vaccination were enhanced by adding GLA either in an aqueous or stable oil formulation. The adjuvanting effect of GLA was more pronounced with the 2 l dose of Fluzone vaccine and induced antigen specific humoral responses similar to GLA AF or greater than GLA SE 20 l of Fluzone vaccine alone. These results suggest that it is possible to reduce the dose of Fluzone vaccine by adjuvanting it with GLA containing formulations and still induce high levels of IgG and neutralizing antibody titers. This is of particular importance in the context of a world pandemic infection such as Bird Flu.

This example describes an in vivo model demonstrating an adjuvant effect of GLA in a vaccine containing a specific antigen. Standard immunological methodologies and reagents were employed Current Protocols in Immunology Coligan et al. Eds. 2006 John Wiley Sons NY .

Mice three C57BL 6 animals per group were immunized three times at three week intervals with the SMT antigen 10 g per animal for each immunization used alone or formulated in a stable emulsion containing GLA Avanti Polar Lipids Inc. Alabaster Ala. product number 699800 20 g per animal for each immunization according to the procedure used in Example 3 above GLA SE . Sera were collected by bleeding animals one week after the third immunization and serum levels of IgG1 and IgG2c antibodies specific for SMT antigen were examined by ELISA according to published methods.

Predominance of either IgG1 or IgG2c antibody isotype is associated with TH2 or TH1 responses respectively. It has been demonstrated that a TH1 response is necessary for protection against infection. SMT alone vaccination induced predominantly SMT specific IgG1 antibody. SMT GLA SE vaccination induced higher antibody titers and reverted the phenotype to a predominantly IgG2c antigen specific antibody response associated with protection against the disease.

This example describes an in vivo model demonstrating an adjuvant effect of GLA in a vaccine containing a specific antigen. Standard immunological methodologies and reagents were employed Current Protocols in Immunology Coligan et al. Eds. 2006 John Wiley Sons NY .

Mice three Balb c animals per group were immunized three times at two week intervals with the Leish 110f antigen 10 g per animal for each immunization formulated in a stable emulsion containing different amounts of GLA Avanti Polar Lipids Inc. Alabaster Ala. product number 699800 40 20 5 or 1 g per animal for each immunization according to the procedure used in Example 3 above GLA SE . Sera were collected by bleeding animals one week after the first immunization and serum levels of IgG1 and IgG2a antibodies specific for Leish 110f were examined by ELISA according to published methods . .

Leish 110f specific IgG1 and IgG2a antibody titers were GLA dose dependent. Predominance of TH1 associated IgG2a antibody was observed at all concentrations of GLA tested.

This example describes an in vivo model demonstrating an adjuvant effect of GLA in a vaccine containing a specific antigen. Standard immunological methodologies and reagents were employed Current Protocols in Immunology Coligan et al. Eds. 2006 John Wiley Sons NY .

Mice three Balb c animals per group were immunized three times at three week intervals with saline or the Leish 111f antigen 10 g per animal for each immunization formulated in a stable emulsion containing GLA Avanti Polar Lipids Inc. Alabaster Ala. product number 699800 20 g per animal for each immunization according to the procedure used in Example 3 above GLA SE . Two weeks after the last injection mice were sacrificed and spleen collected to analyze T cell dependent IFN and IL 4 cytokine responses to in vitro antigen stimulation by ELISA according to published methods.

Predominance of either IL 4 or IFN cytokine is associated with TH2 or TH1 responses respectively. We and others have demonstrated that a TH1 response is necessary for protection against infection. All animals responded well to ConA a potent mitogen. Leish 111f GLA SE vaccination induced Leish 111f antigen specific cytokine responses while no such responses were observed in the saline control group. When compared to ConA Leish 111f GLA SE vaccination induced much more IFN than IL 4 a TH1 TH2 ratio or phenotype associated with protection against the disease.

This example describes an in vivo model demonstrating an adjuvant effect of GLA in a vaccine containing a specific antigen. Standard immunological methodologies and reagents were employed Current Protocols in Immunology Coligan et al. Eds. 2006 John Wiley Sons NY .

Mice three Balb c animals per group were immunized three times at two week intervals with saline or the Leish 110f antigen 10 g per animal for each immunization formulated in a stable emulsion containing different amounts of i GLA Avanti Polar Lipids Inc. Alabaster Ala. product number 699800 40 5 or 1 g per animal for each immunization according to the procedure used in Example 3 above GLA SE or ii MPL 40 5 or 1 g per animal for each immunization in an emulsion as supplied by the manufacturer MPL SE GSK Biologicals Rixensart Belgium . One week after the last injection mice were sacrificed and spleen collected to analyze T cell dependent IFN cytokine responses to in vitro antigen stimulation by ELISA according to published methods . . IFN cytokine responses have been associated with a TH1 protective phenotype against infection.

All animals responded well to ConA a potent cell activator and mitogen. Leish 110f GLA SE vaccination induced Leish 110f antigen specific cytokine responses in a dose dependent manner while no such responses were observed in the saline control group. At all concentration tested GLA SE was more potent than MPL SE in inducing higher levels of IFN secreted by antigen specific T cells

In conclusion the addition of GLA in a stable oil formulation to vaccine antigen candidate Leish 110f induced predominantly antigen specific immune responses of the cellular type T cell associated with the protective TH1 phenotype. In addition GLA SE was more potent than MPL SE in inducing protection associated cytokines like IFN .

This example describes an in vivo model demonstrating an adjuvant effect of GLA in a vaccine containing a specific antigen. Standard immunological methodologies and reagents were employed Current Protocols in Immunology Coligan et al. Eds. 2006 John Wiley Sons NY .

Mice three Balb c animals per group were immunized three times at two week intervals with saline or the Leish 110f antigen 10 g per animal for each immunization formulated in a stable emulsion containing different amounts of i GLA Avanti Polar Lipids Inc. Alabaster Ala. product number 699800 20 g or 5 g per animal for each immunization according to the procedure used in Example 3 above GLA SE or ii MPL 20 g or 5 g per animal for each immunization in an emulsion as supplied by the manufacturer MPL SE GSK Biologicals Rixensart Belgium . One week after the last injection mice were sacrificed and spleen collected to analyze T cell dependent IFN IL 2 and TNF cytokine responses to in vitro antigen stimulation by intracellular cell staining ICS and Flow cytometry according to published methods . . These three cytokines have been associated with a TH1 protective phenotype against infection.

When analyzed at the single cell level the frequency of CD4 T cells expressing all three cytokines IFN IL 2 and TNF or a combination of IFN and IL 2 was higher in the Leish 110f GLA SE group compared to the Leish 110f MPL SE group and this was observed at both 20 and 5 g doses. It has been reported Seder et al. that high frequencies of CD4 T cells expressing all three cytokines IFN IL 2 and TNF correlates with protection against infection.

In conclusion the addition of GLA in a stable oil formulation to vaccine antigen candidate Leish 110f induced predominantly antigen specific immune responses of the cellular type T cell associated with the protective TH1 phenotype. In addition GLA SE was more potent than MPL SE in inducing protection associated cytokines like IFN IL 2 and TNF.

This example describes an in vivo model demonstrating an adjuvant effect of GLA in a vaccine containing a specific antigen. Standard immunological methodologies and reagents were employed Current Protocols in Immunology Coligan et al. Eds. 2006 John Wiley Sons NY .

Mice three C57BL 6 animals per group were immunized three times at three week intervals with the ID83 antigen 8 g per animal for each immunization used alone or formulated in a stable emulsion containing GLA Avanti Polar Lipids Inc. Alabaster Ala. product number 699800 20 g per animal for each immunization according to the procedure used in Example 3 above GLA SE . Sera were collected by bleeding animals one week after the third immunization and serum levels of IgG1 and IgG2c antibodies specific for ID83 were examined by ELISA according to published methods . Predominance of either IgG1 or IgG2c antibody isotype is associated with TH2 or TH1 responses respectively. It has been demonstrated that a TH1 response is necessary for protection against infection.

Vaccination with ID83 alone induced predominantly antigen specific IgG1 antibody. In contrast ID83 GLA SE vaccination induced higher antibody titers and reverted the phenotype to a predominantly IgG2c antigen specific antibody response associated with protection against the disease.

This example describes an in vivo model demonstrating an adjuvant effect of GLA in a vaccine containing a specific antigen. Standard immunological methodologies and reagents were employed Current Protocols in Immunology Coligan et al. Eds. 2006 John Wiley Sons NY .

Mice three C57BL 6 animals per group were immunized three times at three week intervals with the ID83 antigen 8 g per animal for each immunization used alone or formulated in a stable emulsion containing GLA GLA SE GLA CpG CpG Coley Pharmaceuticals 25 g GLA CpG SE or GLA Gardiquimod GDQ Invivogen 20 g GLA GDQ SE . Three weeks after the last injection mice were sacrificed and spleens collected to analyze CD4 and CD8 T cell dependent IFN IL 2 and TNF cytokine responses to in vitro ID83 antigen stimulation by ICS and Flow cytometry according to published methods. Expression of IFN IL 2 and TNF cytokines have been associated with protective TH1 responses against infection.

Frequencies of ID83 specific cytokine producing CD4 or CD8 T cells were at background levels for the saline and ID83 alone vaccine groups. ID83 antigen specific cytokine producing T cells both CD4 and CD8 were induced by ID83 GLA SE vaccination and their frequency further increased by the addition of a second TLR ligand like GDQ TLR7 8 or CpG TLR9 . T cells expressing IFN TNF or IFN IL 2 were the predominant populations.

In conclusion adjuvanting an antigen against with GLA SE greatly enhanced the antigen specific cellular response T cells as measured by the frequencies of T cells expressing IFN IL 2 and or TNF cytokines. Combining GLA SE with another TLR ligand further increased the frequency of antigen specific cytokine producing cells a phenotype associated with protection against this disease.

This example describes an in vivo model demonstrating an adjuvant effect of GLA in a vaccine containing a specific antigen. Standard immunological methodologies and reagents were employed Current Protocols in Immunology Coligan et al. Eds. 2006 John Wiley Sons NY .

Mice three C57BL 6 animals per group were immunized three times at three week intervals with the ML0276 antigen 10 g per animal for each immunization adjuvanted with aqueous formulations containing CpG CpG Coley Pharmaceutical 25 g per animal for each immunization or Imiquimod IMQ 3M Pharma 25 g per animal for each immunization or GLA Avanti Polar Lipids Inc. Alabaster Ala. product number 699800 25 g per animal for each immunization according to the procedure used in Example 3 above GLA SE a mix of the three or saline as negative control. Sera were collected by bleeding animals three weeks after the second immunization and serum levels of IgG antibodies specific for ML0276 were examined by ELISA according to published methods . .

Animals from the saline control group did not show ML0276 specific IgG and those from the ML0276 CpG and ML0276 IMQ groups showed a very low level of antigen specific antibody. In contrast ML0276 GLA SE induced a significant level of ML0276 specific IgG that was further increased when the three adjuvants were used together.

In conclusion the data support the adjuvanting effect of GLA SE and or a combination of GLA SE with additional TLR ligands when used with antigen ML0276 for the induction of antigen specific antibodies.

This example describes an in vivo model demonstrating an adjuvant effect of GLA in a vaccine containing a specific antigen. Standard immunological methodologies and reagents were employed Current Protocols in Immunology Coligan et al. Eds. 2006 John Wiley Sons NY .

Mice three C57BL 6 animals per group were immunized three times at three week intervals with the ML0276 antigen 10 g per animal for each immunization adjuvanted with aqueous formulations containing CpG CpG Coley Pharmaceutical 25 g per animal for each immunization or Imiquimod IMQ 3M Pharma 25 g per animal for each immunization or GLA Avanti Polar Lipids Inc. Alabaster Ala. product number 699800 25 g per animal for each immunization according to the procedure used in Example 3 above GLA SE a mix of the three or saline as negative control. Three weeks after the last injection mice were sacrificed and spleen collected to analyze CD4 T cell dependent IFN cytokine responses to in vitro ML0276 antigen stimulation by ICS and Flow cytometry according to published methods. Expression of IFN cytokine has been associated with protective TH1 responses against infection.

Animals from the saline control group did not show ML0276 specific IFN responses with a background frequency of 0.04 positive cells. Those from the CpG and IMQ groups showed a slightly increased frequency of antigen specific cytokine producing cells with 0.17 and 0.11 respectively. In contrast a significantly higher number of ML0276 specific IFN CD4 T cells 0.66 were observed when GLA SE was used as an adjuvant a frequency that was further increased when the three adjuvants were mixed together 2.14 .

A subset of mice was subsequently challenged with and found to be protected by ML0276 GLA SE as measured by the reduction in the number of cells in the lymph nodes draining the site of challenge as compared to infected saline controls. Vaccination with ML0276 CpG and ML0276 IMQ induced only a modest decrease in cell numbers compared to saline.

In conclusion the data support the adjuvanting effect of GLA SE and or a combination of GLA SE with additional TLR ligands when used with antigen ML0276 for the induction of antigen specific cellular responses.

All of the above U.S. patents U.S. patent application publications U.S. patent applications foreign patents foreign patent applications and non patent publications referred to in this specification and or listed in the Application Data Sheet are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that although specific embodiments of the invention have been described herein for purposes of illustration various modifications may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not limited except as by the appended claims.

