---

title: Context-aware mobile computing for automatic environment detection and re-establishment
abstract: Automatically discovering and re-establishing wireless connections to other devices in a mobile computing environment (MCE) may be achieved by monitoring connections of different devices with the UE, correlating the connections of the different devices, determining an MCE based on the correlations, and storing information associated with the MCE. A known MCE may accordingly be automatically detected based on an identification of at least one of the different devices, for example, and connection with one or more of the different devices may be automatically re-established to re-establish the MCE based on the stored information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09648490&OS=09648490&RS=09648490
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09648490
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120301
---
The field of the disclosure relates generally to wireless communication and more particularly to context aware mobile computing.

User equipment UEs may interact with different wireless communication systems and different associated devices depending upon the user s surroundings. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including long range Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems and other shorter range technologies such as Bluetooth and Wi Fi.

Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

UEs may also exchange data over shorter distances with other fixed and mobile devices in a Bluetooth wireless communication system. Bluetooth wireless communication systems use short wavelength radio transmissions in the Industrial Scientific and Medical ISM band from 2400 2480 MHz. Bluetooth utilizes a frequency hopping spread spectrum in which data is exchanged on up to 79 bands 1 MHz each centered from 2402 to 2480 MHz in the range of 2400 2483.5 MHz allowing for guard bands .

A Wi Fi network may also be used to wirelessly connect electronic devices. Wi Fi uses the IEEE 802.11 family of standards and may require configuration to set up shared resources transmit files and to set up audio links e.g. headsets and hands free devices . Wi Fi uses the same radio frequencies as Bluetooth but with higher power resulting in a faster connection and better range from the base station. For example an access point may have a range of about 20 meters indoors and a greater range outdoors.

Conventionally wireless connection re establishment among devices in these systems has been performed ad hoc. For example UEs typically re establish connections to a home Wi Fi network external monitor stereo system and other known devices within the user s environment on an individual and uncoordinated basis. Accordingly there is a need in the art for improved re establishment procedures that may reconnect more of the environment than a single connection at a time.

Exemplary embodiments of the invention are directed to systems and methods for a user equipment UE to automatically discover and re establish wireless connection to other devices in a mobile computing environment MCE .

In some embodiments a method is provided for connecting a UE. The method may comprise monitoring connections of different devices with the UE correlating the connections of the different devices determining an MCE based on the correlations and storing information associated with the MCE.

In other embodiments a UE is provided. The UE may comprise logic configured to monitor connections of different devices with the UE logic configured to correlate the connections of the different devices logic configured to determine an MCE based on the correlations and memory configured to store information associated with the MCE.

In still other embodiments an apparatus is provided for connecting a UE. The apparatus may comprise means for monitoring connections of different devices with the UE means for correlating the connections of the different devices means for determining an MCE based on the correlations and means for storing information associated with the MCE.

In still other embodiments a computer readable storage medium containing instructions stored thereon is provided which when executed by at least one processor causes the at least one processor to perform operations for connecting a UE. The instructions may comprise instructions to monitor connections of different devices with the UE instructions to correlate the connections of the different devices instructions to determine an MCE based on the correlations and instructions to store information associated with the MCE.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation. It will be further understood that the term wireless technology may include but is not limited to Wireless Wide Area Networks e.g. CDMA GSM WCDMA LTE Wi Fi technologies e.g. 802.11a b g n WPA WEP Authentication methods e.g. 802.1x EAP methods WiMAX technologies e.g. 802.16e X509 certificates Dial Up connection Remote Access connection handset connection e.g. Bluetooth Infrared USB and hotspot connections.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of embodiments of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein may be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein may be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored thereon a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

User equipment UE as used herein may be mobile or stationary may or may not communicate with one or more access points APs which may be referred to as Node Bs or other wireless devices as described more fully below. A UE may be configured in some embodiments to transmit and receive data packets through one or more of the Node Bs to a Radio Network Controller RNC . The Node Bs and RNC are parts of a network called a radio access network RAN . A radio access network may transport voice and data packets between multiple access terminals.

The radio access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the radio access network such a core network including specific carrier related servers and devices and connectivity to other networks such as a corporate intranet the Internet public switched telephone network PSTN a Serving General Packet Radio Services GPRS Support Node SGSN a Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN and may transport voice and data packets between each UE and such networks. A UE that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more Node Bs may be referred to as an active UE and may be referred to as being in a traffic state. A UE that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel TCH connection with one or more Node Bs may be referred to as being in a connection setup state. A UE may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel. A UE may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash device external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the UE sends signals to the Node B s is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a control channel an access channel etc. . The communication link through which Node B s send signals to a UE is called a downlink channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. . As used herein the term traffic channel TCH may refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless communications system and interrelation of the elements therein are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and may include any system that allows remote UEs such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation core network the Internet PSTN SGSN GGSN and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to an RNC . The RNC is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a Serving General Packet Radio Services GPRS Support Node SGSN and the UEs . If link layer encryption is enabled the RNC also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the RNC is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The core network may communicate with the RNC by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the RNC may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the core network and the RNC transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The RNC may be connected to multiple Node Bs . In a similar manner to the core network the RNC is typically connected to the Node Bs by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The Node Bs may broadcast data messages wirelessly to the UEs such as cellular telephone . The Node Bs RNC and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used. For example the functionality of the RNC and one or more of the Node Bs may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the RNC and the Node B s .

Generally GPRS is a protocol used by Global System for Mobile communications GSM phones for transmitting Internet Protocol IP packets. The GPRS Core Network e.g. the GGSN and one or more SGSNs is the centralized part of the GPRS system and also provides support for W CDMA based 3G networks. The GPRS core network is an integrated part of the GSM core network provides mobility management session management and transport for IP packet services in GSM and W CDMA networks.

The GPRS Tunneling Protocol GTP is the defining IP protocol of the GPRS core network. The GTP is the protocol which allows end users e.g. UEs of a GSM or W CDMA network to move from place to place while continuing to connect to the internet as if from one location at the GGSN . This is achieved transferring the subscriber s data from the subscriber s current SGSN to the GGSN which is handling the subscriber s session.

Three forms of GTP are used by the GPRS core network namely i GTP U ii GTP C and iii GTP GTP Prime . GTP U is used for transfer of user data in separated tunnels for each packet data protocol PDP context. GTP C is used for control signaling e.g. setup and deletion of PDP contexts verification of GSN reach ability updates or modifications such as when a subscriber moves from one SGSN to another etc. . GTP is used for transfer of charging data from GSNs to a charging function.

Referring to the GGSN acts as an interface between the GPRS backbone network not shown and the external packet data network . The GGSN extracts the packet data with associated packet data protocol PDP format e.g. IP or PPP from the GPRS packets coming from the SGSN and sends the packets out on a corresponding packet data network. In the other direction the incoming data packets are directed by the GGSN to the SGSN which manages and controls the Radio Access Bearer RAB of the destination UE served by the RAN . Thereby the GGSN stores the current SGSN address of the target UE and his her profile in its location register e.g. within a PDP context . The GGSN is responsible for IP address assignment and is the default router for the connected UE. The GGSN also performs authentication and charging functions.

The SGSN is representative of one of many SGSNs within the core network in an example. Each SGSN is responsible for the delivery of data packets from and to the UEs within an associated geographical service area. The tasks of the SGSN includes packet routing and transfer mobility management e.g. attach detach and location management logical link management and authentication and charging functions. The location register of the SGSN stores location information e.g. current cell current VLR and user profiles e.g. IMSI PDP address es used in the packet data network of all GPRS users registered with the SGSN for example within one or more PDP contexts for each user or UE. Thus SGSNs are responsible for i de tunneling downlink GTP packets from the GGSN ii uplink tunnel IP packets toward the GGSN iii carrying out mobility management as UEs move between SGSN service areas and iv billing mobile subscribers. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art aside from i iv SGSNs configured for GSM EDGE networks have slightly different functionality as compared to SGSNs configured for W CDMA networks.

The RAN e.g. or UTRAN in Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS system architecture communicates with the SGSN via a Radio Access Network Application Part RANAP protocol. RANAP operates over an Iu interface Iu ps with a transmission protocol such as Frame Relay or IP. The SGSN communicates with the GGSN via a Gn interface which is an IP based interface between SGSN and other SGSNs not shown and internal GGSNs and uses the GTP protocol defined above e.g. GTP U GTP C GTP etc. . In the design of the Gn between the SGSN and the GGSN carries both the GTP C and the GTP U. While not shown in the Gn interface is also used by the Domain Name System DNS . The GGSN is connected to a Public Data Network PDN not shown and in turn to the Internet via a Gi interface with IP protocols either directly or through a Wireless Application Protocol WAP gateway.

Direct Tunnel is an optional function in Iu mode that allows the SGSN to establish a direct user plane tunnel GTP U between RAN and GGSN within the Packet Switched PS domain. A direct tunnel capable SGSN such as SGSN in may be configured on a per GGSN and per RNC basis whether or not the SGSN may use a direct user plane connection. The SGSN in handles the control plane signaling and makes the decision of when to establish Direct Tunnel. When the Radio Bearer RAB assigned for a PDP context is released i.e. the PDP context is preserved the GTP U tunnel is established between the GGSN and SGSN in order to be able to handle the downlink packets.

The optional Direct Tunnel between the SGSN and GGSN is not typically allowed i in the roaming case e.g. because the SGSN needs to know whether the GGSN is in the same or different PLMN ii where the SGSN has received Customized Applications for Mobile Enhanced Logic CAMEL Subscription Information in the subscriber profile from a Home Location Register HLR and or iii where the GGSN does not support GTP protocol version 1. With respect to the CAMEL restriction if Direct Tunnel is established then volume reporting from SGSN is not possible as the SGSN no longer has visibility of the User Plane. Thus since a CAMEL server may invoke volume reporting at anytime during the life time of a PDP Context the use of Direct Tunnel is prohibited for a subscriber whose profile contains CAMEL Subscription Information.

The SGSN may be operating in a Packet Mobility Management PMM detached state a PMM idle state or a PMM connected state. In an example the GTP connections shown in for Direct Tunnel function may be established whereby the SGSN is in the PMM connected state and receives an Iu connection establishment request from the UE. The SGSN ensures that the new Iu connection and the existing Iu connection are for the same UE and if so the SGSN processes the new request and releases the existing Iu connection and all RABs associated with it. To ensure that the new Iu connection and the existing one are for the same UE the SGSN may perform security functions. If Direct Tunnel was established for the UE the SGSN sends an Update PDP Context Request s to the associated GGSN s to establish the GTP tunnels between the SGSN and GGSN s in case the Iu connection establishment request is for signaling only. The SGSN may immediately establish a new direct tunnel and send Update PDP Context Request s to the associated GGSN s and include the RNC s Address for User Plane a downlink Tunnel Endpoint Identifier TEID for data in case the Iu connection establishment request is for data transfer.

The UE also performs a Routing Area Update RAU procedure immediately upon entering PMM IDLE state when the UE has received a RRC Connection Release message with cause Directed Signaling connection re establishment even if the Routing Area has not changed since the last update. In an example the RNC will send the RRC Connection Release message with cause Directed Signaling Connection re establishment when it the RNC is unable to contact the Serving RNC to validate the UE due to lack of Iur connection e.g. see TS 25.331 52 . The UE performs a subsequent service request procedure after successful completion of the RAU procedure to re establish the radio access bearer when the UE has pending user data to send.

The PDP context is a data structure present on both the SGSN and the GGSN which contains a particular UE s communication session information when the UE has an active GPRS session. When a UE wishes to initiate a GPRS communication session the UE must first attach to the SGSN and then activate a PDP context with the GGSN . This allocates a PDP context data structure in the SGSN that the subscriber is currently visiting and the GGSN serving the UE s access point.

Referring to UEs and . . . N are illustrated as wireless cell phones UE is illustrated as a wireless tablet PC and UE is illustrated as a wired desktop station. However it will be appreciated that the wireless communication system may connect to any type of UE and the examples illustrated in are not intended to limit the types of UEs that may be implemented within the system. Also while the AAA the provisioning server the IMS SIP registration server and the application server are each illustrated as structurally separate servers one or more of these servers may be consolidated.

Further referring to the application server is illustrated as including a plurality of media control complexes MCCs . . . N B and a plurality of regional dispatchers . . . N A. Collectively the regional dispatchers A and MCCs B are included within the application server which may correspond to a distributed network of servers that collectively functions to arbitrate communication sessions e.g. half duplex group communication sessions via IP unicasting and or IP multicasting protocols within the wireless communication system . For example because the communication sessions arbitrated by the application server may theoretically take place between UEs located anywhere within the system multiple regional dispatchers A and MCCs are distributed to reduce latency for the arbitrated communication sessions e.g. so that a MCC in North America is not relaying media back and forth between session participants located in China . Thus when reference is made to the application server it will be appreciated that the associated functionality may be enforced by one or more of the regional dispatchers A and or one or more of the MCCs B. The regional dispatchers A are generally responsible for any functionality related to establishing a communication session e.g. handling signaling messages between the UEs scheduling and or sending announce messages etc. whereas the MCCs B are responsible for hosting the communication session for the duration of the call instance including conducting an in call signaling and an actual exchange of media during an arbitrated communication session.

Referring to a UE here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that may receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform may include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory may be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also may include a local database that may hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but may be any secondary storage device known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components may also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention may include a UE having the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements may be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UE in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

In general UEs such as the UE discussed above may interact with other electronic devices in a variety of what are termed herein as mobile computing environments MCEs . Some MCEs may be simple e.g. a phone and headset whereas other MCEs may be complex e.g. a work or home desktop . Several example MCEs are described below for illustration.

Other environments include a user s automobile or car an office conference room and others. In the car environment example the UE may connect to an integrated hands free system an entertainment system a navigation system and or other wireless devices. In the conference room example the UE may connect to an external wireless projector a sound system a printer one or more computers and or other wireless devices.

It will be appreciated that each MCE may have some similar devices and some unique devices. Each of these environments may contain a number of individual devices functioning together as a complete environment ecosystem.

By monitoring connections of different devices with the UE and correlating the connections of the different devices embodiments herein allow the UE to determine an MCE e.g. a work MCE or a home MCE based on the correlations. As discussed in more detail below the correlations may be based on obtaining historical information regarding the UE s various connections with the different devices.

Additionally the UE may be configured to automatically detect a known MCE defined for given environment and automatically re establish a connection with one or more of the different devices to re establish the appropriate computing environment. Detection of the MCE may be based on an identification of at least one of the different devices in that MCE such as by a MAC address device ID Bluetooth device address network SSID IP address cell tower address or other identifier. Alternatively MCE detection may be based on a GPS location and or other location based services. In some embodiments the UE may disable at least one RF device on the UE in order to save power.

Accordingly embodiments herein may simplify the wireless reconnection experience by making the UE context aware so that users may avoid having to manually reconnect various devices to their UE. In mobile computing context awareness refers to the idea that a UE may both monitor and react based on its environment. A context aware UE may have information about the surrounding circumstances and react accordingly based on pre defined rules and triggering events. By automatically sensing and re establishing connections in specific MCEs a more seamless interaction with the devices making up a given MCE may be realized without the need for user input.

As shown a UE monitors connections of different devices block to sense the context of its surrounding environment. For example a user may arrive at a new home environment such as the one shown in . Then when the user turns on his or her UE the UE may start to search for available Wi Fi networks. Upon discovering the SSID or the MAC ADDR of the WLAN for the new environment the UE may monitor other connections for potentially determining a new MCE. For example while in this new environment the UE may detect a radio signal and unique identifier from the wireless home lighting .

While the UE is monitoring the context of this new environment the UE may correlate the various connections of different devices block . In some embodiments the UE may correlate the connections of the different devices over time to obtain historical information regarding the interactions and connections with the different devices. This correlation may be simultaneous with the monitoring of block . Alternatively the correlation may also be based on other information received by the UE as part of or separate from block .

Using the correlations the UE may determine its MCE and store information associated with that MCE block . The stored MCE information may include an identification associated with the MCE as well as other information that is received by the UE both in the process of monitoring and correlating the various device connections and otherwise. For example the UE may also associate a physical location with the MCE based on a GPS location a location provided via a WWAN and or other location services. The user may label each MCE automatically or manually with a unique classification e.g. work home car etc. .

Once an MCE has been determined and associated information stored future connection of the UE to any of the devices in this known MCE may be automated based on information gathered from a user s surroundings.

As shown the UE initially monitors its environment block . The monitoring may include monitoring connections of different devices information about the user the user s social environment and or the user s tasks. Additionally the UE may monitor the user s physical environment e.g. location velocity communications and or other conditions e.g. noise light .

Based on the UE s environment the UE may automatically detect whether it is in a known MCE block . For example the UE may detect a known MCE based on an identification of at least one of the different devices and or locations associated with the MCE. Alternatively the UE may determine a known MCE based on information received about the user the user s social environment the user s tasks physical environment e.g. location velocity communications and or other conditions received by the UE e.g. noise light .

In some embodiments the UE may detect previously known MCEs via a set of device identification numbers associated with one or more devices in or around the MCE. The device identification numbers may be MAC addresses or other IDs of various devices Bluetooth device addresses network SSIDs IP addresses cell tower addresses or other unique identifiers.

For example a user may arrive at his or her home environment such as the home environment depicted in and the UE may search for available Wi Fi networks. Upon discovering the SSID MAC address or IP address of the WLAN for the home environment the UE may determine that it is in the home MCE. As another example the UE may detect the radio signal from the wireless home lighting and from the unique identifier of the wireless home lighting the UE may recognize that it has entered the MCE for the home environment.

In the car environment example the user may turn on the ignition of his or her vehicle prompting the vehicle s hands free system to attempt to connect with the UE. From this connection of the hands free system the UE may recognize that it is in a known car MCE. As another example the UE may determine that it is moving based on the UE s connection to different RANs in a WWAN. If the UE determines that it is moving at a high speed e.g. 60 miles per hour or higher the UE may assume that it is in a car MCE.

In other embodiments the UE may detect a known MCE by using location technology such as GPS location mapping or other services using WWAN. For example the UE may detect that it is in a conference room via a GPS location previously associated with the conference room.

In still other embodiments the UE may detect a known MCE based on communications by the user. For example the user may state on the UE s microphone that user is at home. As another example the UE may detect a known MCE based on other noises such as the vibration of a train.

In still other embodiments the UE may monitor information about the user e.g. knowledge of habits physical conditions bio sensors the user s social environment e.g. co location of others social interaction group dynamics and or the user s tasks e.g. location specific calendar events . For example the UE may determine that it is in a known MCE based on information received from a social networking application. As another example the UE may determine that it is in a known MCE based on a calendar event showing that the user is at work in a meeting.

Accordingly it will be appreciated that detection of a known MCE may be achieved in many ways according to various triggering conditions or triggering events including a detection of a known device e.g. via Bluetooth attachment of a UE to another device or network e.g. WLAN entering a known geophysical location e.g. GPS UE sensor detection time based events e.g. email calendar events user input and others. The UE may store key identifiers that allow recognition of such triggering events as necessary.

Once detection of a known MCE occurs the UE may re establish the expected connections that are associated with that MCE block . Re establishment may include requesting activating controlling deactivating connecting and or disconnecting other devices when the appropriate triggering event occurs. The UE may also launch various applications based on the recognized environment.

For example in the work environment illustrated in once the UE determines that the user is in the work MCE the UE may automatically re establish connections to the other known devices in this environment such as the monitor keyboard mouse stereo system and or a hard drive . The UE may determine either automatically via previous interactions or manually via user programming which other device connections should be automatically re established for this environment.

As another example in the home environment illustrated in once the UE determines that the user is in the home MCE e.g. by connecting to the home Wi Fi network etc. the UE may re establish connections with the other devices in the home MCE e.g. the TV game system stereo system etc. adjust the home lighting adjust the HVAC system or perform other operations appropriate for the home environment. It should be appreciated that the re established connections may not all be direct connections to the UE.

As another example once the UE determines that the user is in the user s conference room e.g. using GPS or other location based services etc. the UE may automatically re establish connections to devices that are known to the UE to be located in the conference room. For example the UE may request or prompt the user to request permission to connect to the external wireless projector.

The UE may also configure or modify other active devices in the environment using data communication and or configuration data. For example the UE may behave intelligently by installing any needed software or updates for connecting to a device via known technology such as plug and play technology. In this way reconfiguration of a device connected to the UE may be made more seamless to a user since the UE automatically connects and if needed reconfigures devices to allow for seamless re establishment. This also provides a common device installation process regardless of the particular devices manufacturers or operating systems. This also enables conflict management to ensure smooth operation of the UE.

The UE may also perform one or more security procedures such as authentication that may be required to access shared network devices. The UE may store user based authentication information per the request of the user to allow for automatic re establishment of devices that require authentication. For example the UE may store security settings of known MCEs in order to facilitate re connection to a known WLAN or a known WWAN. Alternatively the user may choose to be prompted to type his or her password when re establishing a secure connection. By storing these security settings embodiments herein again allow for a more seamless wireless connection to known MCE environments.

In some embodiments the UE may be configured for operation with multiple users. For example based on a bio sensor e.g. fingerprint reader to login to UE the UE may determine that a second known user is currently utilizing the UE and accordingly re establish reconnections in accordance with the second user s preference for a specific MCE.

Optionally the UE may disable radio technologies not used in the detected MCE to save power block . For example when the UE determines that the location is the user s car the UE may disable radio technologies that are not necessary in the car e.g. WLAN in order to save power. As another example if the UE determines that it is moving at a high rate of speed e.g. based on internal sensors based on interactions with different RANs etc. it may disable one or more cellular radios to save battery power. As another example the UE may disable the wireless technology to search for and connect to a wireless mouse until the UE connects to a wireless keyboard. In this embodiment the UE from historical information may infer that when the user connects to a wireless keyboard the user most likely will also connect to a wireless mouse. The UE may store a history of the users usages to run algorithms to determine the minimum connections required before enabling the UE s radio technologies for other potential connections. Further given that certain devices have more than one key identifier the UE may enable only the necessary radio technology with the lowest power consumption to identify unknown devices.

Also optionally the UE may reconnect and adjust the user s environment based on the user s presence in a detected MCE block . For example in the home environment of the UE may adjust the home lighting or the HVAC system to the user s preference. For multi user UEs the particular user and associated preferences may be identified using a bio sensor e.g. fingerprint reader manual input or other means.

According to various embodiments the UE may further include a connection monitoring module configured to monitor connections of the UE with different devices e.g. with the accessory devices WLANs WWANs GNSSs etc. and a correlation module configured to correlate the connections of the different devices. The UE may also include an MCE determination module configured to determine an MCE based on the correlations and to store information associated with the MCE in the memory . In this design the UE additionally includes an MCE detection and re establishment module configured to automatically detect a known MCE based on an identification of at least one of the different devices for example and to automatically re establish a connection with one or more of the different devices to re establish the MCE based on the stored information in the memory . It will be appreciated that in some designs the functionality of one or more of the connection monitoring module correlation module MCE determination module or MCE detection and re establishment module may be integrated directly into or otherwise performed by the general purpose controller processor of the UE .

Accordingly with context aware mobile computing a UE in accordance with one of the embodiments herein is provided with the ability to detect interpret and respond to aspects of a user s local environment. Context aware UEs may dynamically change or adapt a system based on the context of the environment. A context aware UE may monitor input from environmental sensors and automatically react accordingly. As a result context aware UEs allow end users to seamlessly interact with a user s local environment.

It will be appreciated that the techniques described above may be employed in connection with numerous other general purpose environments. The work home car and conference room examples are only examples of potential suitable MCEs and are not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of the use or functionality of the invention. Neither should these MCEs be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated in the figures.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor may read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention may include a computer readable medium embodying a method for connecting a user equipment. Accordingly the invention is not limited to merely the illustrated examples and any means for performing the functionality described herein are included in embodiments of the invention.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

