---

title: Sentiment analysis
abstract: Data is received from multiple data sources. At least one of the data sources is an active audio or video communication. The received data is analyzed by extracting instances of a keyword from the received data and analyzing contextual data near the keyword. Sentiment about the extracted keyword is gauged based on the contextual data. The derived sentiment data from the multiple data sources is aggregated, and an aggregated view of the derived sentiment data is presented.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09208502&OS=09208502&RS=09208502
owner: IPC SYSTEMS, INC.
number: 09208502
owner_city: Jersey City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120119
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 434 708 filed Jan. 20 2011 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

Example aspects of the present invention generally relate to analysis of multiple sources of received communications and or data.

In the financial industry and other information intensive environments it is common for a user to receive information from multiple sources. For example a stock trader may receive information during a conference call from a trading desk monitor a video broadcast listen to a hoot and receive multimedia feeds containing various text based messages or other information.

However due to the complexity and volume of information being received and variations in opinions from different sources it is often difficult to obtain a meaningful grasp on how the various sources view a particular topic or a particular piece of information and what the aggregate view is. The problem is exacerbated when information is being received in real time or pseudo real time and contains unstructured data as with voice calls.

The example embodiments described herein address the foregoing by providing systems apparatuses methods and computer program products for analyzing received data. Data is received from multiple data sources. At least one of the data sources is an active audio or video communication. The received data is analyzed by extracting instances of a keyword from the received data and analyzing contextual data near the keyword. Sentiment about the extracted keyword is gauged based on the contextual data. The derived sentiment data from the multiple data sources is aggregated and an aggregated view of the derived sentiment data is presented.

Further features and advantages as well as the structure and operation of various example embodiments of the present invention are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings.

The example embodiments of the invention presented herein are directed to apparatuses methods and computer program products for analysis in a trading environment using consumer or professional devices. This description is not intended to limit the application of the example embodiments presented herein. In fact after reading the following description it will be apparent to one skilled in the relevant art s how to implement the following example embodiments in alternative environments such as a services based environment a web services based environment etc.

Some terms are defined below for easy reference. However it should be understood that the defined terms are not rigidly restricted to their definitions. A term may be further defined by its use in other sections of this description.

 Device means software hardware or a combination thereof. A device may sometimes be referred to as an apparatus. Examples of a device include without limitation a desk phone turret laptop computer a database a server a display a computer mouse and a hard disk.

 Network means a connection between any two or more computers which permits the transmission of data. A network may be any combination of networks including without limitation the Internet a network of networks a local area network e.g. home network intranet a wide area network a wireless network and a cellular network.

 Server means a software application that provides services to other computer programs and their users in the same or another computer. A server may also refer to the physical computer that has been set aside to run a specific server application. For example when the software Apache HTTP Server is used as the web server for a company s website the computer running Apache is also called the web server. Server applications can be divided among server computers over an extreme range depending upon the workload.

 Software and application mean a computer program that is written in a programming language that may be used by one of ordinary skill in the art. The programming language chosen should be compatible with the computer by which the software application is to be executed and in particular with the operating system of that computer. Examples of suitable programming languages include without limitation Object Pascal C C and Java. Further the functions of some embodiments when described as a series of steps for a method could be implemented as a series of software instructions for being operated by a processor such that the embodiments could be implemented as software hardware or a combination thereof. Computer readable media are discussed in more detail in a separate section below.

 User device e.g. client client device user computer is a hardware system a software operating system and or one or more software application programs. A user device may refer to a single computer or to a network of interacting computers. A user device may be the client part of a client server architecture. A user device may rely on a server to perform some operations. Examples of a user device include without limitation a personal media device a portable media player an iPod an iPad a laptop computer a palmtop computer a smart phone a cell phone a mobile phone a network attached storage NAS device an IBM type personal computer PC having an operating system such as Microsoft Windows an Apple computer having an operating system such as MAC OS hardware having a JAVA OS operating system and a Sun Microsystems Workstation having a UNIX operating system.

In that regard information may be transmitted in real time or pseudo real time over network to user device . Moreover information transmitted over network may include various different types of multimedia data including for example live or recorded video or audio and or transcription thereof from a variety of sources including personal calls calls from a trading floor or conference calls and video broadcasts and multimedia feeds or social networking updates such as Twitter persistent chats or instant messages and market statistics among many others. Thus it should be understood that the received data likely includes multiple information flows or transmissions from multiple information sources connected to network .

Processor is also communicatively coupled to memory which contains program instructions that processor executes to perform among other tasks functions associated with analyzing the received data. Example functions stored in memory and executed by processor include receiving data from at least one of a set of data sources extracting instances of a keyword from the received data and analyzing contextual data near the keyword gauging sentiment about the extracted keyword based on the contextual data aggregating the derived sentiment data and presenting an aggregated view of the derived sentiment data etc.

Memory may also store input data from the information flow such as streaming video data or transcribed telephone calls. In some embodiments memory might further store for example information regarding keywords sentiment data extracted from contextual information around the keywords network history etc. Various other data may be stored in memory .

Processor receives data e.g. over network . Processor analyzes the received data extracts instances of a keyword from the received data and analyzes contextual data near the keyword and gauges and displays sentiment about the extracted keyword based on the contextual data as described more fully below.

The computer may include without limitation a processor device a main memory and an interconnect bus . The processor device may include without limitation a single microprocessor or may include a plurality of microprocessors for configuring the computer as a multi processor system. The main memory stores among other things instructions and or data for execution by the processor device . The main memory may include banks of dynamic random access memory DRAM as well as cache memory.

The computer may further include a mass storage device peripheral device s portable storage medium device s input control device s a graphics subsystem and or an output display interface . For explanatory purposes all components in the computer are shown in as being coupled via the bus . However the computer is not so limited. Devices of the computer may be coupled via one or more data transport means. For example the processor device and or the main memory may be coupled via a local microprocessor bus. The mass storage device peripheral device s portable storage medium device s and or graphics subsystem may be coupled via one or more input output I O buses. The mass storage device may be a nonvolatile storage device for storing data and or instructions for use by the processor device . The mass storage device may be implemented for example with a magnetic disk drive or an optical disk drive. In a software embodiment the mass storage device is configured for loading contents of the mass storage device into the main memory .

The portable storage medium device operates in conjunction with a nonvolatile portable storage medium such as for example a compact disc read only memory CD ROM to input and output data and code to and from the computer . In some embodiments the software for storing information may be stored on a portable storage medium and may be inputted into the computer via the portable storage medium device . The peripheral device s may include any type of computer support device such as for example an input output I O interface configured to add additional functionality to the computer . For example the peripheral device s may include a network interface card for interfacing the computer with a network .

The input control device s provide a portion of the user interface for a user of the computer . The input control device s may include a keypad a touchscreen and or a cursor control device. The keypad may be configured for inputting alphanumeric characters and or other key information. The cursor control device may include for example a handheld controller or mouse a trackball a stylus and or cursor direction keys. In order to display textual and graphical information the computer may include the graphics subsystem and the output display . The output display may include a cathode ray tube CRT display and or a liquid crystal display LCD . The graphics subsystem receives textual and graphical information and processes the information for output to the output display .

Each component of the computer may represent a broad category of a computer component of a general and or special purpose computer. Components of the computer are not limited to the specific implementations provided here.

More specifically the analysis engine can extract keywords from audio or video calls e.g. from a person desk of traders floor of traders from specialized conference calls broadcast to one or multiple parties called hoots or from video broadcasts or from audio of video broadcast e.g. from live television and analyze sentiment associated with keyword targets such as gold or oil . In one example voice to text transcription is used to extract keywords and contextual data from active audio or video communications. In addition the analysis engine may extract keywords and analyze sentiment from data feeds such as Twitter or other social media networks or persistent chat and instant messaging IM among others.

Keywords may be defined by a user or system administrator or dynamically generated based on other content being accessed by the user allowing for a specific vocabulary to be leveraged and customized for specific classes of assets or items. The keywords could be loaded into the system using for example a user interface or a configuration file an application programming interface API among others. Additionally the keywords call data and transcriptions could be saved into a customer relationship management CRM system or on the desktop itself. For example if a particular customer or trader deals frequently in oil oil could be in a set of keywords for that trader. As shown in when a caller speaks about one of the keywords on the traders active call or other calls in the organization that are being monitored an icon indicating the keyword is brought to the user s attention. A user or trader can also define one or more keywords before or during the call to supplement the words derived from the analytics engine.

As shown in sentiment user interface displays sentiment on the trading desk for each of a set of selected commodities. Sentiment user interface includes for example active call section for active calls of the end user broadcast data feed section and sentiment display .

In more detail active call section displays active calls including the user plus other persons e.g. traders along with icons or objects representing selected keywords mentioned during the call such as gold mining or silver . Analysis of calls for keywords may be initiated by a separate control item such as a call analysis icon not shown . As shown in the call includes two other persons although any number of persons might be included on the call. For example calls could be shared across an entire trading desk which might include multiple traders. Thus there may be multiple calls being simultaneously received transcribed and analyzed by a single user. Active call section may also include selectable icons or objects to add additional keywords or to view a transcript of the call generated via voice to text transcription. The user may also be provided with icons or objects or objects by which to initiate new active calls or to end current ones.

Broadcast data feed section displays keywords extracted from various other data sources including Twitter desk calls hoots and television broadcasts. Broadcast data feed section also displays the identity of the person e.g. John Smith or source e.g. CNN transmitting the broadcast or message and icons or objects representing selected keywords mentioned during the broadcast or message. As with audio calls there may be multiple video or television broadcasts or other feeds being simultaneously received transcribed and analyzed. In addition some video broadcasts may include additional embedded metadata which can also be analyzed. In still other examples keywords and contextual data are extracted from a live text chat persistent chat or instant messaging or other multimedia feeds.

Sentiment display displays a visual indication of sentiment for selected keywords. In this example positive and negative sentiments about the keyword are displayed as a graph of sentiment for the keyword over time although other displays are possible. As shown in sentiment display displays a graph of positive and negative sentiment i.e. bullish or bearish trends for gold and oil for the past hour. In positive sentiment is displayed as a number between zero and one neutral sentiment is displayed as zero and negative sentiment is displayed as a number between zero and negative one although other systems may be used. As seen from the graph gold has positive sentiment over the past hour whereas oil has a negative sentiment over the past hour.

Additionally selectable items beneath the graph may allow the user to select different time periods over which to track the sentiment such as the past day week or month. In addition to the graph sentiment display may further display a numerical value summarizing the change in sentiment for the selected keyword such as the 0.15 shown for gold. Moreover as shown in sentiment display may track the names of users or organizations which have increased or decreased sentiment for a keyword and display these names along with corresponding changes to the sentiment. Additional selectable icons or objects may allow a user to add new keywords to view. In addition the drop down in the image currently showing my desk allows the user to view different ranges of input for analysis for example to see the sentiment for each keyword based on input of each trader at a trading desk or more broadly at a trading institution as a whole.

A drop down menu for a selected keyword may be located in active call section and may allow a user to manually adjust sentiment. For example the user may be provided with controls to manually adjust the sentiment derived by the analysis engine for a keyword to what the user feels is more accurate. For example if the user feels that a particular conversation is more positive on gold than the sentiment determined automatically by the analysis engine the user may adjust sentiment for gold to be even more positive. The drop down menu may also provide selectable icons or objects for the user to access detailed voice audio transcriptions so that the user can visually inspect contextual words near the keywords.

Presentation tier generates a view such as that shown in to enable easy digestion of sentiment of keywords from complex and varying data sets such as calls social networking feeds and live video broadcasts among others.

Business logic also referred to as business logic layer associates sentiment data for one or more keywords from various sources and provides real time updates of information. The business logic connects the various systems involved coordinates the necessary processing amongst the different systems normalizes data so that can be stored in an intelligent fashion stores data into the database and retrieves data for the presentation tier . The business logic is the control center of the entire system. Each input system such as communications system or real time data feeds is registered in the business logic layer with all necessary connection information so that the necessary data can be retrieved. Also supporting systems such as the analytics engine and audio video transcriptions engine are registered in the business logic layer so that the necessary functions supported in these systems can invoked as needed. With the connection in place the business logic coordinates how the various systems work together to achieve the desired end result. Some data such as a structured text based data from persistent chat can processed directly as it is already in text form. Other data sources such as communications data is unstructured and in binary form so first needs to be sent to a transcription engine e.g. audio video transcriptions engine for pre processing so that it is in text based structured form for processing.

Once all of the data is in text form and structured the business logic first needs to normalize the data so that there is a consistent structure that can be analyzed regardless of input type. To accomplish this there are different adapters per information source that are designed to take input data from a specific and unique source and output that data in a normalized fashion by mapping the data to a consistent data structure. The system is extensible and adapters can be added as needed depending on the given environment. With the data normalized and in text form it is sent to the analytics engine to determine the sentiment of keywords. The data is stored in the database and sent to the analytics engine where each field is examined against a list of keywords that exist in the database . The keywords are populated directly and indirectly by the end user as described earlier. If a keyword is found the words surrounding the keyword before and after are analyzed for sentiment against a library of words and phrases that is specifically tailored for a given audience such as financial traders. The keywords identified along with the determined sentiment are then sent back to the business logic layer for storage in the database alongside the original text or transcription of audio. All other necessary fields such as the source of the data and time it was created are stored into the database as well. An abstraction layer can exist between the business logic and database to pool connections and allow for alternative relational databases to be used if needed. With the data now in a structured and normalized fashion in the database SQL queries can be run to return data sets that are appropriate for the presentation tier to display.

Database aggregates derived sentiment data from various data sources and correlates them by time e.g. time the message data is received . Database may also store text transcriptions associated with audio and voice feeds. In that regard storage of transcriptions or keywords may be discretionary to a user or administrator. Thus for example a user or administrator could choose to store or delete transcriptions after they are analyzed or if stored the transcriptions could be deleted after a period of time defined by the user or administrator. In addition privacy settings could be customized to restrict access to the transcripts to specific individuals.

Sentiment analysis application can be executed on a computer e.g. a PC desktop as an executed sentiment analysis application to provide a display of sentiment analysis to the user on a monitor or screen of a PC desktop as shown in or other devices such as a desk phone or turret. is only an example and other types of display are possible.

Trader corresponds to a user who might use sentiment analysis application to track sentiment regarding particular keywords. Naturally non trader users might also use the system.

Analytics engine calculates sentiment for one or more keywords by looking for keywords in transcripts or other data feeds and analyzing surrounding words to determine the keyword s use in context. Semantic analysis is then performed on the surrounding words in order to determine if the keywords are being used positively or negatively. Put another way positive or negative words surrounding the keywords may give the keyword positive or negative sentiment values.

In the example shown in analytics engine receives transcriptions from audio video transcriptions engine and combines the text from the audio video transcriptions with other real time data feeds for sentiment analysis. Audio video transcriptions engine in turn may generate transcriptions from input calls from a communications system or live video broadcasts providers . With this the audio of phone calls plus the audio portion of video calls and video broadcast are piped through the system where a real time voice to text transcription occurs. Standard audio video technologies such as the Real Time Transport Protocol RTP and G.711 codec can be input into the transcription engine.

Communications system includes for example trader calls desk calls conference calls and hoots among others. Communications system may also store a history of communication records regarding calls such as the persons involved in the call and associations between one or more persons involved in the call and a particular asset order or institution. Associations between particular callers and other data may be managed by for example a separate customer relationship management CRM system or an order relationship management ORM system neither shown .

Audio video transcriptions engine generates text from input audio or video such as communication system and live video broadcasts providers to thereby provide a text record of the audio or video which can be analyzed for keywords and contextual data. The voice to text transcription system can also be trained for specific vocabulary and market segments.

Live video broadcasts providers include live video which may include internal or public video feeds or other broadcast data. Live video or broadcasts may also include metadata which can also be analyzed by analysis engine .

Real time data feeds include Twitter persistent chat instant messaging and other social networking or multimedia data feeds.

As shown in input data from communications system live video broadcasts providers and real time data feeds are combined transcribed if necessary e.g. for active audio or video communications analyzed for sentiment and aggregated to provide a display of sentiment about one or more keywords.

Briefly in data is received from multiple data sources. At least one of the data sources is an active audio or video communication. The received data is analyzed by extracting instances of a keyword from the received data and analyzing contextual data near the keyword. Sentiment about the extracted keyword is gauged based on the contextual data. The derived sentiment data from the multiple data sources is aggregated and an aggregated view of the derived sentiment data is presented.

In more detail in step multimedia feeds and or communication data are received. For example as discussed above communication data might be transcribed from calls from a person desk of traders floor of traders hoots or conference calls from a live video broadcast or may be received from data feeds such as Twitter persistent chat and instant messaging IM among many others.

In step the multimedia feeds and communication data are analyzed. In particular instances of a keyword are extracted from the received data via for example voice or video to text transcription along with contextual data near the keyword. Then the contextual data near the keyword is analyzed to determine sentiment about the keyword. For example surrounding words can be analyzed to determine the keyword s use in context and whether the source has positive or negative feelings about the keyword.

In step sentiment of the words around the keyword target is gauged based on the analysis. For example once it is determined whether the keyword is being used positively or negatively a sentiment score for the keyword from that source can be calculated.

In step the derived sentiment data from each of the various data sources is aggregated. In particular sentiment data for a keyword e.g. oil from various multiple sources such as calls video broadcasts and feeds can be aggregated to determine an overall sentiment for that keyword over all received communications.

In step the aggregated view is presented to the trader or other user via for example a user interface such as that shown in . For example the display may include the overall sentiment for the keyword along with corresponding individual sentiment from each source for that keyword. Thus the user is provided with a real time historic view of sentiment about for example various portfolio holdings throughout a financial institution or other group. In some examples the aggregated view and derived sentiment data are shared among multiple users.

In particular depicts a view in which active calls are displayed along with keywords but in which additional information and or control icons or objects are displayed. For example call analysis section displays the time date of the active call and its duration as well as a status indicator indicating that the call is in the process of being transcribed. A user may select one of the extracted keywords to display additional sentiment information about the selected keyword in sentiment display .

Sentiment display displays a graph of sentiments for oil from multiple sources as well as the name of each individual source and its corresponding sentiment. Put another way the user can see who has mentioned the keyword oil and what their sentiment for oil is. Additionally an overall numerical value summarizing the change in sentiment for the selected keyword may also be displayed. The user may also be provided with a drop down menu to switch to a trading desk or other application.

Thus in the example of the user can see that the sentiment for oil has generally been negative but has recently been trading positively. The user can also see who has mentioned the keyword oil and what their sentiment for oil is.

Meanwhile active call status allows for selection of various options during the call including volume conferencing transferring the call and holding or releasing the call as well as other telephone options such as speakerphone and the like. Active call status display may also include an analysis icon which allows the user to toggle between analyzing and not analyzing an active call.

The user may also wish to gain additional information from a particular source such as the source s sentiments towards other keywords. For example in the example shown in it appears that Brian Fierro has a positive sentiment towards oil. Thus a trader might want to know what other keywords Brian Fierro has mentioned as well as what Brian Fierro has said about those keywords.

Accordingly in one example a user could select Brian Fierro from the list of sources in and further select a particular keyword from a list of keywords mentioned by Brian Fierro to research Brian s sentiment about that keyword and current sentiment trends for that keyword in general. The user may further request text transcribing what Brian Fierro has said about specific keywords.

For example turning to a user has selected Brian Fierro and has then selected oil from a list of keywords. Upon request or automatically the user may then be provided with actual text transcript depicting Brian s use of the keyword oil in various contexts. Thus a particular data source can be selected to display additional sentiment data associated with that data source as well as transcripts of communications from the source.

In more detail depicts sentiment summary transcript call analysis and sentiment analysis display . Sentiment summary displays the identity of a selected person or group and an association thereof along with a list of keywords mentioned by the person here Brian Fierro and corresponding sentiment values and or changes thereto. Transcript may be displayed upon selection of a particular keyword to show the actual text which the person said about the selected keyword. Thus the text transcription of the telephone call is displayed along with the sentiment data and the contextual data. Call analysis and sentiment analysis display may be similar to those shown in and therefore will not be described in detail again.

In additional example embodiments alerts can be configured for notification of specific keyword sentiment thresholds. For example an alert is issued when a sentiment threshold for the keyword is reached. In another example automated alerts can be set to assist with specific trade strategy.

Thus according to the above example embodiments call data analysis automatically spots keywords and associates keyword data with accompanying sentiments. The sentiment analysis provides decision support based on captured sentiment across various and multiple sources. Accordingly it is ordinarily possible to provide a transparent communications centric approach to transcription and semantic analysis.

The example embodiments described above such as for example the systems and procedures depicted in or discussed in connection with or any part or function thereof may be implemented by using hardware software or a combination of the two. The implementation may be in one or more computers or other processing systems. While manipulations performed by these example embodiments may have been referred to in terms commonly associated with mental operations performed by a human operator no human operator is needed to perform any of the operations described herein. In other words the operations may be completely implemented with machine operations. Useful machines for performing the operation of the example embodiments presented herein include general purpose digital computers or similar devices.

Portions of the example embodiments of the invention may be conveniently implemented by using a conventional general purpose computer a specialized digital computer and or a microprocessor programmed according to the teachings of the present disclosure as is apparent to those skilled in the computer art. Appropriate software coding may readily be prepared by skilled programmers based on the teachings of the present disclosure.

Some embodiments may also be implemented by the preparation of application specific integrated circuits field programmable gate arrays or by interconnecting an appropriate network of conventional component circuits.

Some embodiments include a computer program product. The computer program product may be a storage medium or media having instructions stored thereon or therein which can be used to control or cause a computer to perform any of the procedures of the example embodiments of the invention. The storage medium may include without limitation a floppy disk a mini disk an optical disc a Blu ray Disc a DVD a CD or CD ROM a micro drive a magneto optical disk a ROM a RAM an EPROM an EEPROM a DRAM a VRAM a flash memory a flash card a magnetic card an optical card nanosystems a molecular memory integrated circuit a RAID remote data storage archive warehousing and or any other type of device suitable for storing instructions and or data.

Stored on any one of the computer readable medium or media some implementations include software for controlling both the hardware of the general and or special computer or microprocessor and for enabling the computer or microprocessor to interact with a human user or other mechanism utilizing the results of the example embodiments of the invention. Such software may include without limitation device drivers operating systems and user applications. Ultimately such computer readable media further includes software for performing example aspects of the invention as described above.

Included in the programming and or software of the general and or special purpose computer or microprocessor are software modules for implementing the procedures described above.

While various example embodiments of the invention have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example and not limitation. It is apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s that various changes in form and detail can be made therein. Thus the disclosure should not be limited by any of the above described example embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

In addition it should be understood that the figures are presented for example purposes only. The architecture of the example embodiments presented herein is sufficiently flexible and configurable such that it may be utilized and navigated in ways other than that shown in the accompanying figures.

Further the purpose of the Abstract is to enable the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and the public generally and especially the scientists engineers and practitioners in the art who are not familiar with patent or legal terms or phraseology to determine quickly from a cursory inspection the nature and essence of the technical disclosure of the application. The Abstract is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the example embodiments presented herein in any way. It is also to be understood that the procedures recited in the claims need not be performed in the order presented.

