---

title: AC plug receptacle with non-contact power meter and radio telemetry
abstract: A power measurement device in accordance with aspects of the invention comprises a power harvesting unit that extracts a fraction of current flowing through an electric power supply unit to an electronic appliance; a power determination circuit that generates power measurement data indicative of at least one of the extracted current or a power consumed by the electronic appliance determined based on the extracted current; and an output device that outputs the power measurement data. The power measurement device can be used with plugs or sockets as an external component or integrated therein as an internal component.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09274147&OS=09274147&RS=09274147
owner: PLUM LABS, LLC
number: 09274147
owner_city: Somerville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120222
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 445 336 filed on Feb. 22 2011 entitled AC PLUG RECEPTACLE WITH NON CONTACT POWER METER AND RADIO TELEMETRY the disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its entirety by reference.

The present inventive concepts relate to the field of power consumption measurement devices and more particularly to power monitors used for measuring electrical energy consumption of a device connected to an electrical outlet or socket e.g. in a home or office setting.

Power monitors are devices that measure and output the energy consumption of an apparatus that is powered from an electric outlet or socket referred to herein as an electric appliance or simply an appliance . Power monitors can be used in a number of ways to measure the energy consumption of any number of electric appliances. They can be used for example to measure the power consumption of appliances such as computers televisions kitchen appliances and so on.

As is shown in a power monitor typically takes the form of an electrical device that plugs into an electrical socket or outlet and can include a built in electric outlet into which can be plugged the appliance. A power monitor typically includes a display unit to locally display parameters of interest to the user. The display unit integrated into the plug portion or tethered thereto as is shown in . These parameters can include instantaneous power total energy consumption cost and carbon dioxide CO2 emissions. The latter two parameters require a conversion factor from energy to cost per kiloWatt hours and kilogram of CO2 per kiloWatt hours be input into the device. To select between these various types of information on a display unit power monitors typically contain a simple user interface composed of buttons to select between modes and input information.

In principle power monitors interrupt the conduction path between the device and electrical socket or outlet. Power monitors measure the AC voltage on the electrical socket and measure the current flowing into the device via the interrupted current path. The current may be measured using an accurate and precise power resistor in series with the device and electrical socket by measuring the voltage across this resistor. An electrical circuit is designed to convert the AC voltage on the electrical socket and produce a DC voltage to provide power to the remaining electronics in the power monitor. The remaining electronics may include an analog to digital converter a microprocessor display unit and buttons. The analog to digital converter converts the voltage across the resistor into a digital signal that is input into the microprocessor. The microprocessor stores this information and converts it with the measured AC voltage into power and displays it on the display unit. The microprocessor may further integrate this power to produce energy and can optionally provide a conversion to cost and or consumption of CO2.

It is typically challenging to measure the complete consumption with device level granularity in a home or commercial building using one or more power monitors. Without wireless communications a user will typically plug their power monitor into a number of devices or surge protectors or power strips in their home serially to obtain a comprehensive picture of power consumption. This choice is limited by the size of the power monitor or cost they are typically larger than the vertical spacing of outlets. These are also the same issues with a number of power monitors including wireless communications.

Provided is a universal power measurement device that can be used for example to determine the power consumption of electronic appliances such as consumer electronic products. In some embodiments the power measurement device may be integrated into a power cord or electrical socket with no additional complexity for users or producers of power cords or outlets. In other instances it may be desirable for the power measurement device to be a small attachment that fits over the protruding blades or prongs of an AC plug. In both cases it may be desirable to include wireless communications to provide power consumption and other metrics to a computer or mobile device or optionally provided to a network. In accordance with aspects of the present invention the power measurement device does not interrupt the conduction path between the device and electrical socket or outlet.

Embodiments are focused on an integrated device that couples magnetically to the conductors of an AC plug either as an attachment at the prongs or blades of an AC plug or integrated into the plug or outlet. The magnetic coupling extracts a small fraction of the power flowing through the conductors to power a small circuit that measures the power consumption of the device and transmits this information wirelessly. In some embodiments a voltage cascade circuit can be used to multiply the incoming voltage to a level appropriate for the electronics of the power measurement device. In other embodiments a resistive analog to digital converter ADC and controller are arranged to measure the power consumption of the electric appliance while maintaining a constant supply voltage to the electronics of the power measurement device.

In accordance with one aspect of the present disclosure provided is a power measurement device comprising a power harvesting unit configured to extract a fraction of current flowing through an electric power supply unit to an electronic appliance a power determination circuit that generates power measurement data indicative of at least one of the extracted current or a power consumed by the electronic appliance determined based on the extracted current and an output device that outputs the power measurement data.

In one or more embodiments the power harvesting unit can be configured to extract 1 or less of the current flowing through the electric power supply unit.

In one or more embodiments the power harvesting unit can be configured to extract about 1 part in 100 000 of the current flowing through the electric power supply unit.

In one or more embodiments the power harvesting unit can be or include an induction unit configured to extract the current using induction.

In one or more embodiments the power harvesting unit can include a contact unit configured to extract the current through a physical coupling to the electrical power supply unit.

In one or more embodiments the electric power supply unit can be an electrical connector or plug an outlet or a switch as examples.

In one or more embodiments the power measurement device can be a small attachment that slides over exposed contacts of an electrical connector as an electric power supply unit . In some forms the attachment can have a thickness of about 2 4 mmin the region of the contacts.

In one or more embodiments the power measurement device can be a small attachment that slides over exposed contact s of a light bulb as an electric power supply unit .

In one or more embodiments the power measurement device can be a small attachment that fits between a switch as an electric power supply unit and a switch cover plate.

In one or more embodiments the power measurement device can be integral with a plug power cord switch light socket or the electronic apparatus.

In one or more embodiments the output device can comprise a local display integral with the housing e.g. E Ink or efficient LED as a mechanism for reporting power measurement data to the user locally.

In one or more embodiments the output device can comprise a wireless transmission device that transmits a signal indicative of the power measurement data.

In one or more embodiments the wireless transmission device can include a radio frequency RF device. And the power measurement device can include a backscatter RF interface.

In one or more embodiments the wireless transmission device can include a mobile device interface can enable the power measurement to be received by a mobile device e.g. smart phone tablet laptop PDA et cetera .

In one or more embodiments the mobile device interface can enable the power measurement to be received by a mobile device e.g. smart phone tablet laptop PDA et cetera .

In one or more embodiments the mobile device can include an application that enables output of the power consumption data which can include at least one of text and graphics or other forms of output whether static or dynamic.

In one or more embodiments one or more stationary devices could also be provided to aggregate power measurement data from one or more power measurement devices. In one or more embodiments such devices could include an access point wireless modem repeater and the like.

In one or more embodiments aggregated data could be made available to a computer or computer system via a network. The network could include the World Wide Web and access to such data could be made available via a Web site as an example.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention provided is a power measurement system that monitors power consumption within a facility. The system comprises at least one computer configured to receive power measurement data and at least one power measurement device. Each power measurement device comprises a power harvesting unit configured to extract a fraction of current flowing through an electric power supply unit a power determination circuit configured to generate power measurement data indicative of at least one of the extracted current or a power consumed through the electric power supply unit and an output device that outputs the power measurement data.

In one or more embodiments the at least one computer can be configured to aggregate power measurement data from a plurality of power measurement devices received via a network.

In one or more embodiments the at least one computer can include at least one mobile device configured to receive and output the power measurement data.

In one or more embodiments the at least one computer can be accessible via a network and can enable access to the power measurement data via the network. The network can be the World Wide Web the Internet a private network a LAN a WAN a VPN a satellite network a cable network a phone network or the like.

In one or more embodiments the output device can include a wireless transmitter configured to communicate with the at least one computer via a local wireless network within the facility and the wireless network can include an access point a wireless modem or a repeater.

In one or more embodiments the electric power supply unit can be one of an electrical plug an outlet or a switch.

In one or more embodiments the power measurement device can be removably attachable to the electronic appliance.

In one or more embodiments the power measurement device can be removably attachable to a light socket.

Various exemplary embodiments will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some exemplary embodiments are shown. The present inventive concept may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the exemplary embodiments set forth herein.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. are be used herein to describe various elements these elements should not be limited by these terms. These terms are used to distinguish one element from another but not to imply a required sequence of elements. For example a first element can be termed a second element and similarly a second element can be termed a first element without departing from the scope of the present invention. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

It will be understood that when an element is referred to as being on or connected or coupled to another element it can be directly on or connected or coupled to the other element or intervening elements can be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on or directly connected or directly coupled to another element there are no intervening elements present. Other words used to describe the relationship between elements should be interpreted in a like fashion e.g. between versus directly between adjacent versus directly adjacent etc. .

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises comprising includes and or including when used herein specify the presence of stated features steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Spatially relative terms such as beneath below lower above upper and the like may be used to describe an element and or feature s relationship to another element s and or feature s as for example illustrated in the figures. It will be understood that the spatially relative terms are intended to encompass different orientations of the device in use and or operation in addition to the orientation depicted in the figures. For example if the device in the figures is turned over elements described as below and or beneath other elements or features would then be oriented above the other elements or features. The device may be otherwise oriented e.g. rotated 90 degrees or at other orientations and the spatially relative descriptors used herein interpreted accordingly.

Exemplary embodiments are described herein with reference to cross sectional illustrations that are schematic illustrations of idealized exemplary embodiments and intermediate structures . As such variations from the shapes of the illustrations as a result for example of manufacturing techniques and or tolerances are to be expected. Thus exemplary embodiments should not be construed as limited to the particular shapes of regions illustrated herein but are to include deviations in shapes that result for example from manufacturing. Thus the regions illustrated in the figures are schematic in nature and their shapes are not intended to illustrate the actual shape of a region of a device and are not intended to limit the scope of the present inventive concept.

Herein are described one or more example embodiments in accordance with aspects of the present invention. In one embodiment a power measurement device can take the form of a small attachment useful with a standard plug as shown in . The power measurement device can include an integrated circuit an antenna and a power harvesting unit that includes transformers all arranged within a housing as shown in . The power harvesting unit extracts a fraction of current flowing through an electric power cord or plug or socket to an electronic appliance. show different views of the power measurement device of apart from plug . Housing is preferably made from at least one material that is not electrically conductive such as plastic resin ceramic or similar materials. Housing is preferably also heat resistant and non flammable.

The power measurement device can be configured to slide over the exposed contacts of an electrical connector e.g. standard plug as in . In this example embodiment the electrical connector is useful with a Nema 1 15 type electrical outlet or North American outlet but in another embodiment the electrical outlet could include a conductor outlet that includes a ground a Nema 5 15 North American outlet . Yet in other embodiments the power measurement device could be formed for use with any of the worldwide plug formats that now exist or that may be developed in the future.

Regardless of the plug type the power measurement device preferably provides a non contact means of providing power to an internally located integrated circuit by collecting magnetic energy produced by the conductors and converting this magnetic energy into electrical power. In this embodiment housing includes two openings to accommodate pass through of conductors as shown in .

By non contact in this instance it is meant that a physical electrical path between the electrical connector and the power measurement device is not provided even though the power measurement device and electrical connector including conductors may be in contact e.g. in an abutting manner. Note that a physical electrical path may still be utilized to measure parameters of the electrical signal such as the AC voltage directly but not for providing power to the power measurement device.

The power measurement device in this embodiment can determine the power consumed by the electrical appliance to which the electrical connector belongs based on the magnetic behavior of the current carrying conductors . Conductors have a magnetic field given by Maxwell s equations 

Note that the 2term on the right side of the first equation is ignored due to the fact that in this embodiment the power measurement device does not include any electrically polarizing material or bound currents if it did the full equation would be incorporated but would further complicate the equations that follow. The magnetic field path length Lis the average path length of the magnetic field within a magnetic material or air . The final aim is to calculate an induced voltage from a time varying flux density as follows 

If transformers comprise a toroidal magnetic material magnetic fields see will be generated within the magnetic material when current flows through the conductors rather than in the surrounding air i.e. the full flux density should be contained within the magnetic material i.e. power transfer can be close to 100 efficient if the material is not saturated . Therefore the following transformer equations can be used to calculate the current 

Note across the transformer will be a voltage drop 1 NV. In the present embodiment this cannot be too high compared to the incoming AC voltage or the appliance to which the electrical connector belongs will not be able to properly operate. Given that the additional power draw from the load will be 1 N IV this voltage drop should be a maximum of a few Volts. Note also that the equation above can only be satisfied if there is a finite load connected to the transformer otherwise the step increase in current from the input will produce an infinite voltage on the output of the transformer L I t t L t .

The power measurement device in this embodiment has a thickness that is not more than about 4 mm thick and preferably between about 2 4 mm thick in this embodiment although lesser thicknesses may also be possible. This allows the appliance being plugged in to operate normally within a plug socket without compromising the mechanical or electrical stability of the plug socket interface. Therefore the electrical connector plug should be securely and safely maintained in the outlet using such thicknesses.

As is shown in the power measurement device as an electrical connector attachment could also include additional components. Such components could include an integrated circuit IC . IC can include a microprocessor and memory where the memory stores instructions for measuring calculating or otherwise determining power based on magnetic flux and the microprocessor executes the instructions to carry out the steps and functions necessary to measure calculate or otherwise determine power based on magnetic flux. The memory can also store relevant values voltages currents and conversion factors to calculate power energy cost and COconsumption. The memory can be for example a small scale semiconductor memory or any other non transitory storage media.

Power measurement device also includes in this embodiment single turn to many turn transformers and can include other passive components to support IC such as passive components for rectification and energy storage a radio interface to communicate information bi directionally with IC user interface elements if required such as buttons and displays e.g. E Ink or other electrophoretic ink OLED or efficient LCD which are known in the art as a mechanism for local input reporting of information from or to the user an antenna to radiate radio waves for external communication. Antenna may not be required if the wires attached to the outlet can act as a means to transport information around the facility e.g. a house such as is done for Powerline Ethernet communications systems. The frequency range for wireless communications without using the antenna can vary depending on the type of information required but for relatively low bandwidth low data rate data such as periodic power measurements bands of operation may be 20 200 kHz 24 500 kHz or 2 28 MHz or any subset thereof are sufficient. Using the antenna the bands of operation could include 13.56 MHz 30 300 MHz 430 450 MHz 860 960 MHz 2.4 2.4835 GHz 5.47 5.725 GHz and 60 GHz.

In other embodiments of the invention power measurement device could be embedded into a power cord electrical connector or plug itself such as electrical connector . As the circuitry would be powered by the incoming AC signal no batteries or other finite lifetime components would be needed resulting in no decrease of the lifetime of the power cord. If the radio communication system uses backscatter to communicate within a powerline communications system as an example then no addition regulatory certification in many regions of the world would be required.

Note for plug as well as for plugs and the two live contacts provide a plastic sheath around the conductors and and and and respectively. This is to prevent a conductor from falling into the space between the end of the plug connector and the plug and shorting the conductors together. Note that in these cases a contact based solution as described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 930 118 would be infeasible while a non contact magnetic transformer solution as proposed here would work in all cases. The eight different plugs and socket types shown in represent a subset of the 13 different worldwide types but demonstrate similar features e.g. 2 live conductors similar diameter width and length pins and dissimilar features e.g. optional ground conductor pin use of plastic insulation rectangular or circular pin shape spacing and placement of pins voltage range from 100 250V that would allow a non contact design power measurement device attachment or embedded solution that could be homologously adapted to the 13 different plug types. That is in any of these embodiments the power measurement device could be integral with the plug or removably attachable to the plug by sliding over the protruding conductors.

There are some types of electrical sockets that do not fit the model discussed here of a slide on connector such as the standard light socket or specialized connectors for fluorescent tubes or compact fluorescent bulbs. show other embodiments of a power measurement device in accordance with the present invention. The embodiments of could be used for Edison type light bulb sockets.

In a conventional light bulb is attached e.g. screwed into to a socket insert containing the magnetics and associated electronics described of the power measurement device above and measures the power drawn from the bulb . The socket insert can be screwed into the light bulb socket and the light bulb can be screwed into the power measurement device . In this embodiment transformers form part of the power measurement device and a magnetic field is formed therein when power is applied to the metal light bulb base. Item represents a neutral wire of the power measurement device and item represents a live wire of the power measurement device. These wires are disposed in a housing of the socket insert to enables the electrical connections that would be present between if the bulb were directly screwed into light socket . The housing is comprising of a material that is not electrically conductive such as ceramic plastic resin and the like.

In the power measurement device is integral with the bulb . Therefore the bulb can be directly screwed into a socket. More particularly in this example the transformers and IC are integrated into a ceramic housing of a bulb. This bulb could be a traditional incandescent light bulb compact fluorescent CFL or Light Emitting Diode LED . These methods could be adapted to work with other light sockets such as Halogen or fluorescent tube lighting. For example various forms of the power measurement device could be utilized in fluorescent tubes that are slightly shorter than the standard lengths accommodating a power measurement device containing the components discussed herein.

Referring to for clarity a single blade of an electrical conductor e.g. is shown as a conducting wire but the current is represented as 2 I. A magnetic core and N turn secondary part of the transformers form an inductive reactive input impedance into the circuit. The first circuit subcomponent is a limiter circuit . Given that the power flowing through the wires can vary by 4 6 orders of magnitude e.g. 0.1 W to 10000 W from the equations above if the magnetic material operates in the linear regime the voltage for a constant load will vary linearly with the input power.

In one embodiment with standard magnetic materials 4000 turns on the secondary transformer and a load resistance of 13.4 kOhms the voltage into the circuit for a 1000 W input would 28V. This voltage is too high for standard CMOS circuitry and would need to be limited with a limiter circuit to limit the output voltage to the range of approximately 0.3 to 3.3V. Limiter circuits have been standardized in RFID tags that have a wide input dynamic range 20 to 20 dBm essentially a Zener diode or cross pair of diodes equivalent implemented in CMOS. Above 1000 W the magnetic core would be in saturation the voltage would not rise significantly above 28V and one would not be able to utilize the voltage measurement to indirectly measure the power through the pins .

For the same embodiment at 13.1 W input power on the conductors the voltage would be 0.37 V. To properly operate CMOS transistors in a floating or non floating gate regime requires the transistors be biased with a minimum voltage at a minimum power for the system. As is done in RFID transponder tags a minimum voltage of about 0.25 0.4 V is cascaded through a CMOS based version of a Dickinson stage that allows a DC supply voltage of 0.8 1.2V to be generated from a lower AC supply voltage.

A high level diagram of the contents of the Cascade circuit is shown in as a four stage circuit. Rather than maintain a constant load impedance to the transformer that would saturate the limiter circuit over much of the input range a variable load impedance can be utilized to maintain a fixed voltage and keep the limiter circuit out of compression. When the device is off and an electronic appliance is plugged into a socket the default resistance could be high and designed for a minimum input power. If the limiter circuit is saturated the control circuitry could lower the load impedance until the limiter was out of saturation and the input voltage was below a threshold. As will be discussed in more detail if the input voltage can be controlled to an accurate and precise setting the resistance value in the variable load circuit can be related to the incoming power measurement 

Where Vis the input threshold voltage the controller is attempting to adjust the circuit to R is the input control resistance from the variable load circuit together these define the current into the circuit the number of turns of the transformer and the AC voltage typically 100 240V AC RMS . The control circuitry would control the load circuit but also be responsible for resetting the device upon power up maintaining storage of measured power and potentially including an active or backscatter radio for bidirectional communication in the far field or in the near field over the AC lines electrical conductors .

It should also be noted the ratio of input to output power is more feasible than outlined in U.S. Pat. No. 7 930 118. In this reference measurement of the power used at 10 amperes through blade yields 18 A at 5 volts which equals 90 W. Translating these values into input and output power indicates that 1200 W is required to supply 90 W to their device. This ratio of 13.3 million 1 would make this system infeasible for common use unlike the 100000 1 utilized here. The power measurement device in accordance with aspects of the present invention includes at least three innovations above the state of the art 1 the design of the magnetic circuit to maximize the originating voltage into the circuit 2 the Cascade circuit to reduce the requirements on the number of turns required in the secondary transformer and 3 a variable load impedance circuit to measure the power consumption of the device while maintaining a constant input voltage to the power measurement control and radio circuit .

Beyond the operational threshold in this embodiment the amount of power supplied from 1 W up to approximately 350 W is insufficient to power an active radio continuously although an energy storage device such as a capacitor could be used to provide intermittent power to an active radio. For known commercial powered active radios such as 802.15.4 Zigbee Bluetooth Bluetooth Low Energy 802.11a b g n ac Wifi these radios would need to be intermittently powered such that the average power draw equals the circuit power threshold. Above the operation threshold a backscatter device could operate continuously. A powered backscatter device presently has a maximum sensitivity of about 30 to 36 dBm 50 to 56 dB of total dynamic range and requires about 10 W to operate. Above the active radio continuous readout threshold at an active radio could operate continuously. For an active radio design the amount of time a radio would be powered would be proportional to the input power draw from the electronic appliance this is commensurate with ensuring the highest power devices have the most access to a shared channel. The lower plot shows the load resistance required to maintain a constant voltage of 0.3V into the Cascade circuit . The resistance at the operation threshold R Iindicates a system design point a point that can be changed for different system design considerations. The variable resistance is shown as a continuous parameter over the input power range but for practical circuits this parameter will require finite control and be low power as will be discussed in more detail.

Rather than utilize a traditional ADC Sigma delta or other time domain architecture to measure the voltage and hence power input for this system it is important to recognize that at high input currents the magnetic circuit will be pushed into saturation peak flux density for most magnetic materials is about 0.5 2.2 T and with the example given above the maximum voltage would be approximately 1.6V . It is desired to have a variable load presented to the magnetic circuit inductance in which the maximum load R see is set based on achieving a minimum circuit power at a minimum input current I see keeping the limiter circuit out of saturation.

One embodiment for a variable load circuit that is low power and would create a digital output hence removing the need for an ADC analog to digital converter is a parallel resistor bank as shown in . The input resistance of this circuit is 

Where R is a fixed resistance in the circuit. The remaining resistances to define an N bit resistor register where each resistor in the parallel bank has a corresponding CMOS switch to enable or disable a particular register. An implementation will be required to factor in the on and off resistance of the CMOS switches. In some embodiments the number of independent resistors is 8 10 11 12 14 16 22 or 24. The value of R that is needed over the input power range is to keep the input voltage constant 1 1 1

This can also be split into two separate banks of resistors to minimize the number of bits required. For example the 22 total bits are used for with two 11 bit banks. The first bank is designed to operate in the digital range of 0 2047 while the second bank is designed to operate in the digital range of 2048 4095 .

In plot this is a plot of the ideal resistance required line similar to that from with a corresponding plot of the overall resistance R obtained from a 22 bit resistor bank dashed . At this scale the differences in the ideal and quantized resistance curve are negligible. In plot shows the resulting voltage for the 22 resistor bank over a 5 order of magnitude input power range the maximum excursion is 2 . This excursion would establish a lower bound on the power accuracy obtainable with this system. Note this plot is the final solution of resistor values the initial value chosen could be substantially higher and due to other errors in the system may not settle on the ideal final value.

Referring again to the control algorithm for adjusting the bit values will start with the highest resistance or a cached resistor value . The control circuitry will detect if the limiter circuit is in saturation if it is the variable load circuit will be decreased in resistance to the next value and this process repeated. If the limiter circuit is not in saturation the variable load circuit will have the resistance altered to choose the resistance which places the input voltage into the overall circuit as close a value as possible to the threshold voltage in the case of 0.3 V. After the optimal load resistance is chosen this value may be stored processed into power energy cost or CO2 consumption and be transmitted through the building wiring system or wirelessly .

Considerations of the time to settle upon a solution are necessary but the convergence of the algorithm must undergo no oscillations that have voltage operation below the threshold for the cascade circuit Vt. That is the control algorithm must be over damped or critically damped. The control algorithm would observe the generated voltage into a comparator and would lower the resistance until the voltage started to change limiter circuit out of saturation and then would try to move the operation point of the voltage generated to be as close to the threshold voltage V the minimum value of V as shown in from as possible but not lower. As a further extension of the control algorithm it is anticipated that one may also be able to use the voltage slew rate to better select the resistors to switch in and out of the circuit .

The following are design considerations related to embodiments discussed herein or related to other embodiments that are also considered to be within the scope of the present invention.

Measurements of functional air gap between the flat surface of the electrical plug connector to the flat surface of the outlet or extension cord receptacle to maintain operation is up to about 1 cm in the present embodiment for the North American 2 and 3 pin plugs Nema 1 15 and 5 15 . Experimental testing of a number of plugs and receptacles in extension cables has led to this determination. This margin is substantially higher than the 2 4 mm preferred for the presently envisioned applications and provided the device is not too heavy relative to the reduced friction load of the leads within the socket AC to DC adaptors generally provide the largest gravitational load on a connector socket connection should provide necessary gravitational support.

In some parts of the world including the US one can obtain voltage directly as the metal conductors are exposed to the face of the power connector. One can therefore separate the use of magnetics to measure power consumption. The voltage difference before and after the transformer could be used to directly measure the voltage in the secondary circuit. The magnetic components will need to be placed after the point of contact for maximum accuracy. Although a contact arrangement is feasible as outlined in U.S. Pat. No. 7 930 118 the use of a non contact arrangement is thus preferred for worldwide operation.

In some instances the cascade circuit will convert the AC signal of frequency 50 60 Hz into a DC signal to power the remaining parts of the circuitry. In other embodiments the time of the positive and negative peaks of the AC cycle may be long enough to only power the circuit during a small window of the AC cycle this may reduce cost by allowing smaller capacitors to be used in a rectification circuit.

One concern may be the measurement accuracy of the current being measured. The secondary system will draw roughly 1 part in 100 000 of the power through the input therefore a phase or voltage error will be very small. Note also the voltage drop across the magnetic interface of this connector will be 1 N of the voltage generated on the secondary side. If the voltage to be matched is to be kept close to V 0.3V then the voltage change from the line voltage of 120 220 V will be on the order of 150 V to 3 mV.

One potential application embodiment of this technology is shown in as a power measurement system that includes one or more power measurement devices monitoring power consumption within a facility e.g. a home. A user in a Facility e.g. home office or other indoor environment is able to utilize a mobile device e.g. laptop desktop tablet smartphone etc. to obtain a real time view of where power is being drawn in the Facility via the various electronic appliances that each use an embodiment of a power measurement device either through an attachment or embedded into the power cord or outlet as examples. A computer application could be downloaded onto one or more of these mobile devices to provide varying degrees of information to the user. The information could be communicated over a wired or wireless network within the facility.

As an example if a far field backscatter system was utilized as the radio communication technology the user would be required to walk to within proximity 1 cm 10 m of each electronic appliance. Otherwise using a backscatter or active HF radio coupled to the power lines or an active far field radio technology such as Bluetooth Low Energy or Wifi an aggregator device could assemble all the power information for all electronic appliances in the facility for the user to review. The communication range from a single device to a user could be 1 cm to 100 m based on design ability to locate where devices are.

The entire system could exist within the home or this information or a subset of this information could be sent to the Internet to a cloud system . From the cloud system other devices and users and could monitor this information. It is also anticipated that the radio communications system as part of this invention could be bidirectional thus from any of the control devices data could be sent to the appliances. In other embodiments of this invention the non contact power measurement would not be utilized but the near field HF radios could be incorporated directly into the regulator chips of the electronics signals received from these control devices could be used to shut off power to the devices for a complete Facility control system.

Preferably the magnetic material is put on at least the other current carrying conductor to avoid magnetic coupling issues. A GND connection point may also be needed if significant current flows to ground see . A very high permeability material may be required to act as a shield between transformers.

It is anticipated this technology could become a worldwide standard where this device is integrated directly into the cords of consumer electronic devices. For companies using electrical motors and cables or simple electronic devices but do not have software magnetics and silicon design expertise to design a component of this complexity a company could exist to provide an OEM version of this system which could be integrated directly into the plastics rubber of the AC cord.

While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and or other preferred embodiments it is understood that various modifications can be made therein and that the invention or inventions may be implemented in various forms and embodiments and that they may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim that which is literally described and all equivalents thereto including all modifications and variations that fall within the scope of each claim.

