---

title: Remote interaction with electronic devices
abstract: An approach for providing remote interaction (e.g., technical support) with electronic devices (e.g., mobile devices such as mobile phones, tablets, laptops, etc.) is provided. Specifically, remote control of a first electronic device may be obtained by an administrator device or the like. The first electronic device may then be remotely operated by the administrator device to view, indicate, and/or perform features/functions of a second electronic device needing technical support.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09071485&OS=09071485&RS=09071485
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09071485
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121107
---
Aspects of the present invention relate to electronic device e.g. mobile device troubleshooting. Specifically aspects of the present invention relate to the remote interaction e.g. viewing operating etc. of electronic devices for troubleshooting or the like.

As the pervasiveness and capabilities of mobile devices continue to grow greater levels of functionality are being provided in mobile devices. A user of a smart phone a tablet or the like can now perform many functions that previously were limited to higher level computer systems e.g. laptops desktops etc. . For example today a mobile device user may participate in video conferences update social networking data use multimedia applications etc. all from his her mobile device.

In general embodiments of the present invention relate to an approach for providing remote interaction e.g. technical support with electronic devices e.g. mobile phones tablets laptops desktop computers etc. . Specifically remote control of a first electronic device may be obtained via an administrator device or the like. The first electronic device may then be remotely operated by the administrator device to view indicate and or perform features functions of a second electronic device e.g. target device needing technical support. For example a camera function of the first electronic device may be utilized to view the second electronic device. Moreover lighting functions of the first electronic device may be used to indicate certain components or functions of the second electronic device e.g. via illumination as well as a type of action to be performed e.g. via flashing the light a certain number of times . Still yet an input device e.g. a keyboard of the first electronic device may also be electronically paired with the second electronic device so that actions performed using the input device e.g. remotely via the administrator device may be automatically propagated to the second electronic device.

A first aspect of the present invention provides a computer implemented method for providing remote interaction with electronic devices the computer implemented method comprising the steps of an administrator device establishing remote control of a first electronic device. The computer implemented method further includes the administrator device controlling a set of functions of the first electronic device to interact with a second electronic device to be technically supported. The computer implemented method further includes the administrator device indicating a set of actions to be performed on the second electronic device using the set of functions of the first electronic device.

A second aspect of the present invention provides a system for providing remote interaction with electronic devices the system comprising a computer readable storage device at least one processor and program instructions stored on the computer readable storage device for execution by the at least one processor. The program instructions include program instructions to establish remote control of a first electronic device program instructions to control a set of functions of the first electronic device to interact with a second electronic device to be technically supported and program instructions to indicate a set actions to be performed on the second electronic device using the set of functions of the first electronic device.

A third aspect of the present invention provides a computer program product for providing remote interaction with electronic devices the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage device and program instructions stored on the computer readable storage device for execution by at least one processor. The program instructions include program instructions to establish remote control of a first electronic device program instructions to interact with a second electronic device to be technically supported via an administrator device and program instructions to indicate a set actions to be performed on the second electronic device using the set of functions of the first electronic device.

A fourth aspect of the present invention provides a method for deploying a system for providing remote interaction with electronic devices comprising providing a computer infrastructure being operable to establish remote control of a first electronic device from an administrator device. The method further includes the computer infrastructure being further operable to control a set of functions of the first electronic device to interact with a second electronic device to be technically supported via the administrator device. The method further includes the computer infrastructure being further operable to indicate a set of actions to be performed on the second electronic device using the set of functions of the first electronic device.

The drawings are not necessarily to scale. The drawings are merely schematic representations not intended to portray specific parameters of the invention. The drawings are intended to depict only typical embodiments of the invention and therefore should not be considered as limiting the scope of the invention. In the drawings like numbering represents like elements.

Illustrative embodiments will now be described more fully herein with reference to the accompanying drawings in which exemplary embodiments are shown. This disclosure may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the exemplary embodiments set forth herein. Rather these exemplary embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of this disclosure to those skilled in the art. In the description details of well known features and techniques may be omitted to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the presented embodiments.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of this disclosure. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Furthermore the use of the terms a an etc. do not denote a limitation of quantity but rather denote the presence of at least one of the referenced items. The word set is intended to mean a quantity of at least one. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising or includes and or including when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features regions integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features regions integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Embodiments of the present invention recognize that unfortunately the higher levels of functionality being provided in mobile devices often are accompanied with increased needs for technical support troubleshooting. Specifically more complex functionality and technology often result in more complex technical issues and or instruction. Given the mobile nature of such devices an administrator may not always be able to physically interact with a mobile device in need of troubleshooting. This problem may be compounded when mobile device operating systems fail to allow for remote technical support.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to an approach for providing remote interaction e.g. technical support with electronic devices e.g. mobile phones tablets laptops desktop computers etc. . Specifically remote control of a first electronic device may be obtained via an administrator device or the like. The first electronic device may then be remotely operated by the administrator device to view indicate and or perform features functions of a second electronic device e.g. target device needing technical support. For example the administrator device may utilize a camera function of the first electronic device to view the second electronic device. Moreover the administrator device may utilize lighting functions of the first electronic device to indicate certain components or functions of the second electronic device e.g. via illumination as well as a type of action to be performed e.g. via flashing the light a certain number of times . Still yet an input device e.g. a keyboard of the first electronic device may also be electronically paired with the second electronic device so that actions performed using the input device e.g. remotely via the administrator device may be automatically propagated to the second electronic device.

Referring now to depicts a computing node according to an embodiment of the present invention. Computing node is only one example of a suitable computing node and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of embodiments of the invention described herein. Regardless computing node is capable of being implemented and or performing any of the functionality set forth herein.

In computing node there is a computer system server which is operational with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with computer system server include but are not limited to personal computer systems server computer systems thin potential clients thick potential clients hand held or laptop devices mobile devices global positioning systems GPS GPS enabled devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputer systems mainframe computer systems and distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices and the like.

Computer system server may be described in the general context of computer system executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer system. Generally program modules may include routines programs objects components logic data structures and so on that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer system server may be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer system storage media including memory storage devices.

As shown in computer system server in computing node is shown in the form of a general purpose computing device. The components of computer system server may include but are not limited to one or more processors or processing units a system memory and a bus that couples various system components including system memory to processor .

Bus represents one or more of any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnects PCI bus.

Computer system server typically includes a variety of computer system readable media. Such media may be any available media accessible by computer system server including both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media.

System memory can include computer system readable media in the form of volatile memory such as random access memory RAM and or cache memory . Computer system server may further include other removable non removable volatile non volatile computer system storage media. By way of example only storage system can be provided for reading from and writing to a non removable non volatile magnetic media not shown and typically called a hard drive . Although not shown a magnetic disk drive for reading from and writing to a removable non volatile magnetic disk e.g. a floppy disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM DVD ROM or other optical media can be provided. In such instances each such media component can be connected to bus by one or more data media interfaces. As will be further depicted and described below memory may include at least one program product having a set e.g. at least one of program modules that are configured with program instructions to carry out the functions of embodiments of the invention.

Program instructions embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable radio frequency RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Program utility having a set at least one of program modules with program instructions may be stored in memory by way of example and not limitation. Memory may also have an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data. In general program utility performs the function of the present invention as described herein. Each of the operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data or some combination thereof may include an implementation of a networking environment. Program instructions of program modules generally carry out the functions and or methodologies of embodiments of the invention as described herein.

Computer system server may also communicate with one or more external devices such as a keyboard a pointing device a display etc. one or more devices that enable a consumer to interact with computer system server and or any devices e.g. network card modem etc. that enable computer system server to communicate with one or more other computing devices. Such communication can occur via I O interfaces . Still yet computer system server can communicate with one or more networks such as a local area network LAN a general wide area network WAN and or a public network e.g. the Internet via network adapter . As depicted network adapter communicates with the other components of computer system server via bus . It should be understood that although not shown other hardware and or software components could be used in conjunction with computer system server . Examples include but are not limited to microcode device drivers redundant processing units external disk drive arrays RAID systems tape drives and data archival storage systems etc.

Referring now to a system diagram describing the functionality discussed herein according to an embodiment of the present invention is shown. It is understood that the teachings recited herein may be practiced within any type of communication environment e.g. a cellular network a WiFi network a cloud computing environment etc. . Electronic devices computer systems devices A C interact with one another as shown. Under this embodiment devices A C are intended to represent any type of computing device capable of carrying out their respective functionality as described herein. In general device A is intended to represent any type of computing device operated by an administrator or the like e.g. for troubleshooting other devices B C . As further shown each device A C includes an application program A C which may include similar elements. In general applications A C and application programming interfaces APIs enable the remote control of device B e.g. an operational device from device A e.g. an administrator device so that device C e.g. a target device may be technically supported by administrator in a remote fashion. Although not shown it is understood that devices A C typically include components e.g. hardware and or software similar to computing node of . Moreover although shown as separate components loaded on each individual device A C it is understood that applications A C could be implemented from a central server or the like e.g. via a cloud environment. In such a case each device A C only needs to access its needed software components.

Regardless using applications A B and APIs device A will obtain remote control of device B. Once remote control of device B has been obtained by device A a set of functions of device B will be operated via device A to interact with device C. For example using a camera function of device B device C may be physically viewed by administrator via device A. Thereafter another function e.g. a lighting function of device B may be utilized to indicate certain features or functions to be performed on device C. For example light may be directed to a particular location of device C to draw user s attention thereto. Alternatively light may be flashed according to a certain sequence to direct user to perform certain actions with respect to device C e.g. a certain flashing sequence may direct user to tap and hold a certain location of a display of device C . Still yet an input device such as a keyboard associated with device B may also be electronically logically paired e.g. via Bluetooth and corresponding device driver software with device C so that manipulations of keyboard can be propagated to device C. Operation of keyboard can be performed by administrator e.g. via device A or user e.g. via device B to provide support to device C.

In general APIs enable the interaction between applications A and B. That is application A will call APIs to control functions of device B via application B. Along these lines APIs may be embodied within device B or in a network environment such as a cloud computing environment. In the case of the latter APIs may be leveraged from multiple devices to interface with other devices. It is further understood that each application A C and APIs will typically be embodied as a computer program product that is stored in computer memory of a computing device and is executable by a processor or processing unit e.g. similar to program stored in memory and executable by processing unit of computer system of .

In any event depicts an example of remote operation of device A according to an embodiment of the present invention. As depicted a light function A of device A is remotely utilized e.g. by administrator via device to indicate a particular area A of display A of device A for which user A interaction is needed. Thus light function A may be used as a pointer as shown. As indicated above light function A may also be used to direct particular user A actions e.g. via flashing sequences . For example a single flash of light on location A could direct user A to tap location A of display A. A double flash of light could direct user A to tap and hold location A. Thus certain flash sequences may be associated with certain actions to be performed by user A.

It is understood the camera and light functions are only two examples of functions of one device an operational device that could be remotely used to interact with e.g. troubleshoot another device a target device by an administrator device or the like. Along these lines it is understood that any type of electronic device function now known or later developed could be leveraged in a similar fashion.

Referring now to a method flow diagram according to an embodiment of the present invention is shown. In general it is understood that this method is typically performed and or enabled by the applications A C and APIs shown in . As indicated above each device A C and corresponding application A C may be represented similar to computer system and program of . Regardless the process is started in step S. In step S application C determines whether troubleshooting of target device e.g. device C of is needed e.g. based upon error detection . If not the process can return to step S. If so application A calls one or more of APIs to utilize application B to establish remote control of an operational device e.g. device B of by an administrator device e.g. device A of in step S. Thereafter application A calls one or more of APIs to utilize application B to control a set of functions of the operational device from the administrator device to interact with the target device shown collectively in steps S S . For example in step S one or more of APIs utilize application B to operate a camera function of the operational device so that the target device can be viewed from the administrator device e.g. by an administrator . In step S one or more of APIs utilize application B to interact with the target device via the operational remote controlled device. As indicated above interaction with the target device can include utilization of various functions of the operational device such as the lighting function the keyboard etc. In step S application C determines if the issue needing troubleshooting has been resolved. If not the process may return to step S. If so the process will be ended in step S.

While shown and described herein as a remote device interaction troubleshooting solution it is understood that the invention further provides various alternative embodiments. For example in one embodiment the invention provides a computer readable useable medium that includes computer program code to enable a computer infrastructure to provide remote device interaction troubleshooting as discussed herein. To this extent the computer readable useable medium includes program code that implements each of the various processes of the invention. It is understood that the terms computer readable medium or computer useable medium comprise one or more of any type of physical embodiment of the program code. In particular the computer readable useable medium can comprise program code embodied on one or more portable storage articles of manufacture e.g. a compact disc a magnetic disk a tape etc. on one or more data storage portions of a computing device such as memory and or storage system e.g. a fixed disk a read only memory a random access memory a cache memory etc. .

In another embodiment the invention provides a method that performs the process of the invention on a subscription advertising and or fee basis. That is a service provider such as a Solution Integrator could offer to provide remote device interaction troubleshooting functionality. In this case the service provider can create maintain support etc. a computer infrastructure such as computer system server that performs the processes of the invention for one or more consumers. In return the service provider can receive payment from the consumer s under a subscription and or fee agreement and or the service provider can receive payment from the sale of advertising content to one or more third parties.

In still another embodiment the invention provides a computer implemented method for a remote device interaction troubleshooting. In this case a computer infrastructure such as computer system server can be provided and one or more systems for performing the processes of the invention can be obtained e.g. created purchased used modified etc. and deployed to the computer infrastructure. To this extent the deployment of a system can comprise one or more of 1 installing program code on a computing device such as computer system from a computer readable medium 2 adding one or more computing devices to the computer infrastructure and 3 incorporating and or modifying one or more existing systems of the computer infrastructure to enable the computer infrastructure to perform the processes of the invention.

As used herein it is understood that the terms program code and computer program code are synonymous and mean any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a computing device having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation and or b reproduction in a different material form. To this extent program code can be embodied as one or more of an application software program component software a library of functions an operating system a basic device system driver for a particular computing device and the like.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code can be provided hereunder and can include at least one processor communicatively coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include but are not limited to local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories that provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution. Input output and or other external devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening device controllers.

Network adapters also may be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems remote printers storage devices and or the like through any combination of intervening private or public networks. Illustrative network adapters include but are not limited to modems cable modems and Ethernet cards.

The foregoing description of various aspects of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of the invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

