---

title: Action broker
abstract: Among other things, one or more techniques and/or systems are provided for building an action catalogue, generating an action frame for an action within the action catalogue, and/or executing an action. In an example, an action may be included within the action catalogue based upon descriptive text associated with an application indicating that the application is capable of performing the action (e.g., a movie app may be capable of performing an order movie tickets action). A parameter (e.g., a movie name) and/or an execution endpoint (e.g., a uniform resource identifier used to access movie ticket ordering functionality) may be used to generate an action frame for the action. In this way, user intent to perform an action may be identified from user input (e.g., a spoken command), and the action may be performed (e.g., on behalf of the user with minimal additional user input) by using the action frame.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09558275&OS=09558275&RS=09558275
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09558275
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121213
---
Many users utilize computing devices such as mobile phones tablet devices and or personal computers to perform various types of actions. In one example a user may input a speech command what is today s news into a mobile phone. The mobile phone may provide the user with a list of news website search results through a web browser. In another example a user may input a search query order movie tickets through a search engine accessed through a tablet device. The search engine may provide a list of websites that may be tagged as relating to movie tickets. The user may manually explore a movie website that may provide movie information such as movie reviews movie show times and or a movie ticket ordering service. After discovering the ticket ordering service the user may provide information requested by the ticket order service in order to complete an order ticket movie action. Unfortunately completing the order ticket movie action may require extensive manual input searching trial and error and or input of redundant information. Moreover finding a movie ticket ordering provider may be difficult particularly if the provider is an app instead of a webpage because search engines generally do not know the actions afforded by apps.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more systems and or techniques for generating an action catalogue generating an action frame and or executing an action are provided herein. In an example of generating an action catalogue one or more candidate actions may be identified and or validated as actions for inclusion within the action catalogue. For example descriptive text associated with an application e.g. an application description provided through an application marketplace a user review for the application a website associated with the application etc. may be mined and or parsed to identify a candidate action provided by the application. For example an application marketplace may provide users with access to a restaurant application. The application marketplace may have an application description for the restaurant application e.g. This application allows users to reserve tables read reviews and or view menus. We hate expensive food so take a look at the app s coupons . A candidate action such as a view menu candidate action and or a hate expensive candidate action may be identified. A feature vector may be generated from the candidate action based upon one or more content sources e.g. a website the application marketplace an article a second application a video a user review a blog etc. referencing the candidate action e.g. a dinning website may mention that users want to view menus before visiting a restaurant . A classifier may be used to determine based upon the feature vector whether the candidate action is valid or invalid e.g. a view menu candidate action may be determined as valid while a hate expensive candidate action may be determined as invalid . Responsive to the candidate action being valid the candidate action may be included as an action within the action catalogue.

In an example of generating an action frame a provider e.g. a website an application a widget a web service a cloud service functionality provided by an application form or a web form etc. capable of executing the action may be identified. For example a restaurant website may comprise an action form e.g. a web form that may provide menu viewing functionality. The action form may comprise one or more parameters for which values may be specified in order to view a menu e.g. a restaurant name parameter . One or more parameters may be extracted from the action form and may be populated within the action frame. In this way the action frame may be populated with one or more parameters used to execute the action.

In an example of executing an action user input e.g. a search query for a consumer product an implicit query derived from prior user behavior such as ordering tacos every Friday at 5 00 speech input requesting movie reviews a calendar entry specifying a dinner date a task entry specifying a need to buy a snow blower an email indicating user interest in getting dinner a social network post indicating a desire to see a movie etc. may be analyzed to identify a user intent to perform an action. An action frame for the action may be identified based upon the user intent. The action frame may specify one or more parameters used to execute the action e.g. a restaurant name parameter for a view menu action . The action frame may specify an execution endpoint e.g. a uniform resource identifier URI of a provider capable of executing the action . If the action frame specifies at least one parameter then one or more parameters may be obtained from the user input e.g. parse results from the search query a default value e.g. where no parameter is provided by the user and or a user response to a solicitation for the value. If the action frame does not specify at least one parameter then no parameters may be obtained. The provider may be invoked using the execution endpoint URI to execute the action e.g. based upon the value of the parameter . In this way the action may be performed on behalf of the user with reduced manual input searching trial and error and or input of redundant information for example.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide an understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

An embodiment of generating or building an action catalogue is illustrated by an exemplary method of . At the method starts. At descriptive text associated with an application may be parsed to identify a candidate action provided by the application. The descriptive text may comprise a variety of text such as an application marketplace user review for the application a web based user review for the application a blog or news article about the application an application description of the application and or a variety of other textual or non textual sources. For example a car website may provide a car app description of a newly released mobile car app that allows users to obtain car quotes read user car reviews browse car images and or discuss paint options such as a red paint that is endorsed or loved by the car website. In an example of parsing the descriptive text a tokenization technique may be used to generate one or more tokens from the descriptive text e.g. tokens representing words and or phrases parsed from the car app description . A natural language processing NLP technique may be used to identify one or more parts of speech tags e.g. a noun a verb and adjective etc. from at least some of the one or more tokens. In an example an NLP technique may be used to identify phrase chunks that may be used with part of speech POS tags in order to identify noun phrases e.g. theater tickets in New York City may be identified as a noun phrase from book cheap theater tickets in New York City . In another example one or more syntactic structures may be identified and may be used in identifying a candidate action. In this way a candidate action such as an obtain car quotes candidate action and a love red paint candidate action may be constructed based upon at least one part of speech tag.

At a feature vector may be generated for the candidate action based upon one or more content sources e.g. a website an application market place description a web service a cloud service an application an article a blog a social network an email a calendar entry a task entry etc. referencing the candidate action. It may be appreciated that a content source referencing a candidate action may correspond to a variety of information from various content sources such as a local description of an application for an application marketplace a review of the application from a website content from a web page e.g. a number of times a web searching index found a pattern candidate action at URL a POS sequence e.g. a verb 10 nouns may be less likely to be an action than a verb noun preposition noun a dictionary or web encyclopedia e.g. a dictionary or web encyclopedia may define an action object such as a noun phrase etc. In an example an action name of read movie reviews may be evaluated to identify an action verb of read e.g. an action that may be performed on an action object and an action object of movie reviews and or movie e.g. an object upon which an action may be performed . In this way the action verb and the action object may be combined into an action frame e.g. read movie reviews which may be distinguishable from read book reviews .

In an example a first feature vector may be generated for the obtain car quotes candidate action based upon one or more features extracted from a plethora of content sources comprising content and or functionality referring to obtaining car quotes. In another example a second feature vector may be generated for the love red paint candidate action based upon one or more features that may be extracted from content e.g. few to no content sources may refer to the love red paint candidate action as an action that a user may want to perform . In an example a feature may correspond to a number feature e.g. a number of times an action object occurs in a candidate object for known applications a category feature e.g. action verb X occurs in pattern X at URL for respective URLs a binary feature e.g. a binary conversion of a category feature and or other types of features.

At a classifier e.g. a machine learning classifier may be utilized to determine based upon the feature vector whether the candidate action is valid or invalid. For example the obtain car quotes candidate action may be determined as valid e.g. based upon a number of features and or a number of feature occurrences associated with content sources being above a threshold while the love red car paint candidate action may be determined as invalid e.g. based upon a number of features and or a number of feature occurrences associated with content sources being below the threshold . In this way responsive to determining the candidate action is valid the candidate action may be included as an action in the action catalogue at . For example the obtain car quotes candidate action may be included as an obtain car quotes action within the action catalogue. In this way information mined from descriptive text may be used to build the action catalogue with one or more actions that a user may want to perform through a computing device. At the method ends.

In an example an action frame may be generated for an action such as the action included within the action catalogue. For example a provider capable of executing the action may be identified e.g. a website that provides a web form used to obtain car quotes an application that provides an application form used to obtain car quotes a web service providing car quote functionality etc. . One or more parameters may be extracted from an action form e.g. a web form an application form a user interface through which a user may specify values for one or more parameters used to execute the action etc. . A parameter may correspond to information used to perform the action. For example a car model parameter e.g. a parameter used to execute the action and or a user location optional parameter e.g. an optional parameter that may provide useful information for execution may be extracted from an application form of a car purchasing application. In an example an application programming interface API associated with the provider such as the car purchasing application may be mapped to the action frame. An execution endpoint such as a uniform resource identifier URI associated with the API may be generated. The action frame may be populated with the execution endpoint URI. In an example the action frame may be populated with one or more execution endpoints which may be ranked based upon various factors such as reliability functionality robustness user review trust marketplace registration etc. In this way the action frame may be populated with one or more parameters and or execution endpoints that may be used to execute the action such as on behalf of a user e.g. exemplary method of .

An embodiment of executing an action is illustrated by an exemplary method of . At the method starts. At user input e.g. speech input a search query an email a task entry a social network post a calendar entry and or other input associated with a computing device such as a personal computing device a tablet device a mobile device a car computing device etc. may be analyzed to identify a user intent to perform an action e.g. the obtain car quote action of . For example a calendar entry within a user calendar may specify need to find price for Sports Car Model X . A user intent to obtain a car quote for the Sports Car Model X may be identified from the calendar entry. As another example an implicit query e.g. or serendipitous query may be used to identify user intent. For example if a user has purchased tacos around noon on Tuesday for the last 5 weeks then on the following Tuesday user intent to order tacos for lunch may be inferred e.g. as the result of an implicit query eat tacos near here could automatically be displayed on the user s mobile phone .

At an action frame for the action may be identified based upon the user intent. The action frame may specify one or more parameters corresponding to information used to perform the action and or an execution endpoint such as a uniform resource identifier URI associated with an application programming interface API of a provider capable of executing the action. For example an action frame for the obtain car quote action may be identified. The action frame may comprise a car model parameter a user location optional parameter and or other parameters used to execute the obtain car quote action. The action frame may comprise one or more ranked execution endpoints such as an execution endpoint URI of a car purchasing application which may be invoked to execute the action. At a value for a parameter may be obtained based upon the user input e.g. Sports Car Model X may be identified from the calendar entry and may be used as a value for the car model parameter a default value e.g. a default value specifying that a current location of a user computing device is to be used for the user location optional parameter and or a user response to a solicitation for the value e.g. the user may be provided with an ability to specify one or more car options for the Sports Car Model X . In an example a provider may utilize merely a subset of parameters specified within an action frame e.g. a registered provider may utilize a first subset of the parameters while an un registered provider may utilize a second e.g. greater subset of the parameters that is different than the first subset .

At the provider may be invoked using the execution endpoint URI to execute the action based upon values obtained for the one or more parameters. In an example the provider may be selected e.g. over a second provider specified within the action frame based upon the provider having a ranking above an execution rank threshold e.g. a rank that is relatively higher than a rank of the second provider and or a user preference for the provider. A result of the executed action may be provided. For example digital content e.g. a car quote a dealership phone number a car review car pricing data car dealership listings etc. a purchase receipt e.g. an offer or acceptance of a car purchase and or a reservation receipt e.g. a reservation to test drive the car at a location dealership may be provided e.g. with little to no additional user input . In another example instead of invoking the provider on behalf of a user a result set of one or more providers capable of executing the action may be provided to the user so that the user may take appropriate action e.g. download and install an application specified within the result set from an application marketplace . In this manner may be optional in an example. At the method ends.

The catalogue component may generate feature vectors for the candidate actions based upon one or more content sources referencing such candidate actions. For example one or more features may be extracted from a variety of websites and or other sources that reference the order movie tickets candidate action the read user reviews candidate action and or the order candy candidate action. In contrast one or more features may be extracted from merely a few content sources that may reference the eat too much candy candidate action and or the allow users candidate action. The catalogue component may utilize a classifier to determine based upon the feature vectors whether respective candidate actions are valid or invalid. For example the order movie tickets candidate action the read user reviews candidate action and or the order candy candidate action may be determined as valid while the eat too much candy candidate action and or the allow users candidate action may be determined as invalid. In this way the catalogue component may include the order movie tickets candidate action as an order movie tickets action the read user reviews candidate action as a read user reviews action and or the order candy candidate action as an order candy action within the action catalogue .

In an example of facilitating execution of an action the action broker component may analyze user input through a computer device to identify a user intent to perform an action. For example the action broker component may analyze a textual or audio statement I want to book two tickets for a movie called The Big Movie at 6 00 at the theater in downtown Cleveland using my online payment account having a username and password of . . . associated with the user input to identify a book movie tickets user intent indicating that the user desires to perform an order movie tickets action populated within the action catalogue .

The action broker component may identify an action frame associated with the order movie tickets action . The action broker component may extract one or more parameters and or one or more execution endpoints used to execute the order movie tickets action from the action frame. A parameter may correspond to information used to execute the order movie tickets action e.g. a movie name parameter a show time parameter a theater parameter a number of tickets parameter a payment info parameter and or other parameters . An execution endpoint such as a uniform resource identifier URI may be associated with an application programming interface of a provider capable of executing the order movie tickets action . Accordingly the action broker component may invoke the provider using the URI to execute the order movie tickets action based upon the one or more parameters e.g. The Big Movie as the movie name parameter 6 00 as the show time parameter a downtown Cleveland theater as the theater parameter 2 as the number of tickets parameter the online payment account information as the payment info parameter etc. . In this way the provider may order two movie tickets e.g. on behalf of the user . The action broker component may provide a result of the executed action. For example the result may indicate that the tickets will be at a theater front desk for the user. In this way an action may be performed on behalf of a user based upon minimal user input such as the user input and or additional user input as needed e.g. a selection of a particular theater additional user authentication for the online payment account etc. .

An embodiment of generating an action frame is illustrated by an exemplary method of . At the method starts. At a provider capable of executing an action may be identified. For example the provider such as a website or application may comprise an action form comprising functionality used to execute the action e.g. a dining website may comprise a table reservation form that may allow users to book a table at a restaurant . In an example one or more providers may be identified. At one or more parameters may be extracted from an action form provided by the provider. A parameter may correspond to information used to execute the action. For example a party size parameter may be extracted from the table reservation form. In an example one or more parameters from one or more providers may be extracted. At an action frame for the action may be populated with the parameter and or an identifier of the provider e.g. an execution endpoint uniform resource identifier . In this way the action frame may be used to identify one or more parameters of the action and or a provider capable of performing the action. For example user input may be analyzed to identify a user intent to perform the action e.g. the user inputs I want to eat at Mexican Cantina into a mobile phone . The action frame may be identified based upon the user intent and values for the one or more parameters within the action frame may be obtained e.g. a party size of may be obtained based upon the user input supplemental information etc. . In this way the provider may be invoked to execute the action based upon the values of the one or more parameters. At the method ends.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of at least some of the exemplary method of and or at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of at least some of the exemplary system of and or at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In an embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In an embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In an embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form. Also at least one of A and B and or the like generally means A or B or both A and B.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

