---

title: Anti-cancer compounds, synthesis thereof, and methods of using same
abstract: Embodiments relate to the field of chemistry and biochemistry, and, more specifically, to anti-cancer compounds, synthesis thereof, and methods of using same. Disclosed herein are various heterocyclic compounds and methods of using the novel anti-cancer compounds to inhibit the growth of a cancer cell, for instance a leukemia, non-small cell lung, central nervous system (CNS), skin, ovarian, renal, prostate, breast, or colon cancer cell. Other embodiments include methods of treating cancer in a subject, such as using the disclosed heterocyclic anti-cancer agents.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08729270&OS=08729270&RS=08729270
owner: University of Notre Dame du Lac
number: 08729270
owner_city: Notre Dame
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120717
---
The present application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 920 808 filed Sep. 2 2010 entitled ANTI CANCER COMPOUNDS SYNTHESIS THEREOF AND METHODS OF USING SAME which is a U.S. National Stage application under 371 of PCT US2009 035920 filed Mar. 3 2009 which in turn claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 067 900 filed Mar. 3 2008 entitled SYNTHESIS OF ANTI CANCER COMPOUNDS CONTAINING OXAZOLE AND TRIAZOLE GROUPS AND METHODS OF USING SAME the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant R01 AI054193 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Embodiments herein relate to the field of chemistry and biochemistry and more specifically to anti cancer compounds synthesis thereof and methods of using same.

Microtubules dynamic protein polymers composed of tubulin and tubulin heterodimers are a well established cellular target for anti cancer drugs. Dynamic polymerization and depolymerization of tubulin heterodimers is a necessary and tightly controlled process during mitosis. Perturbing microtubule dynamics with small molecules blocks the cell cycle in the metaphase anaphase transition and leads to apoptosis. Therefore molecules that target tubulin may be used to halt the uncontrolled cell division that characterizes cancer cells. This therapeutic strategy was validated by the success of antimitotic drugs such as paclitaxel docetaxel vincristine and vinblastine but the clinical utility of these drugs is limited by neurotoxicity and p glycoprotein mediated drug resistance. Synthetic taxanes vinca alkaloid analogs and novel chemotypes that modulate microtubule dynamics have been synthesized in an attempt to overcome these limitations but few have produced useful results during clinical trials.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration embodiments that may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural or logical changes may be made without departing from the scope. Therefore the following detailed description is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of embodiments is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Various operations may be described as multiple discrete operations in turn in a manner that may be helpful in understanding embodiments however the order of description should not be construed to imply that these operations are order dependent.

For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form A B or in the form A and or B means A B or A and B . For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form at least one of A B and C means A B C A and B A and C B and C or A B and C . For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form A B means B or AB that is A is an optional element.

The description may use the terms embodiment or embodiments which may each refer to one or more of the same or different embodiments. Furthermore the terms comprising including having and the like as used with respect to embodiments are synonymous.

As used herein the term alkyl refers to a cyclic branched or straight chain alkyl group containing only carbon and hydrogen and unless otherwise mentioned contains one to twelve carbon atoms. This term may be further exemplified by groups such as methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl isobutyl t butyl pentyl pivalyl heptyl adamantyl and cyclopentyl. Alkyl groups can either be unsubstituted or substituted with one or more substituents for instance halogen alkyl alkoxy alkylthio trifluoromethyl acyloxy hydroxy mercapto carboxy aryloxy aryloxy aryl arylalkyl heteroaryl amino alkylamino dialkylamino morpholino piperidino pyrrolidin 1 yl piperazin 1 yl or other functionality.

As used herein the term substituted alkyl refers to an alkyl moiety including 1 4 substituents selected from halogen het cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl aryl amino cyano nitro OQ SQ S O Q S O Q OS O Q C NQ Q C NOQ Q S O N S O Q S O N S Q C O Q C S Q C O OQ OC O Q C O NQQ C S NQQ N Q C S NQQ C O NQQ C S NQQ C O C Q OC O Q CN S NQC O Q NQC O NQQ S O NQQ NQS O Q NQS O Q NQSQ and SNQQ. Each of the het cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl and aryl being optionally substituted with 1 4 substituents independently selected from halogen and Q.

As used herein the term cycloalkyl refers to a cyclic alkyl moiety. Unless otherwise stated cycloalkyl moieties include between 3 and 8 carbon atoms.

As used herein the term alkene refers to a hydrocarbon molecule with the general formula CH that contains one or more double bonds.

As used herein the term alkyne refers to a moiety having the general formula CHcorresponding to carbon chains with a triple carbon carbon bond included.

As used herein the term alcohol refers to an organic compound that has the general formula CH 10H consisting of hydrocarbon chains terminated by hydroxyl groups O H.

As used herein the term epoxide refers to any of a class of organic compound cyclic ethers having a three member ring.

As used herein the term ketone refers to an organic compound containing the carbonyl group C O to which other carbon atoms are attached.

As used herein the term ester refers to the product of the reaction between a carboxylic acid and an alcohol.

As used herein the term nitrile refers to any of a class of organic compounds containing the cyano radical CN.

As used herein the term thiol refers to a molecular group that includes a bonded sulfur and hydrogen atom SH .

As used herein the term thioester refers to a compound resulting from the bonding of sulfur with an acyl group with the general formula R S CO R . Thioesters are the product of esterification between a carboxylic acid and a thiol as opposed to an alcohol in regular esters .

As used herein the term sulfide refers to an organic compound containing sulfur bonded to carbon. The term disulfide refers to the structural unit composed of a linked pair of sulfur atoms.

As used herein the term sulfone refers to a chemical compound containing a sulfonyl functional group attached to two carbon atoms. The central sulfur atom is twice double bonded to oxygen and has two further hydrocarbon substituents. The general structural formula is R S O O R where R and R are the organic groups.

As used herein the term sulfoxide refers to a chemical compound containing a sulfinyl functional group attached to two carbon atoms. Sulfoxides can be considered oxidized sulfides.

As used herein the term amino refers to NH NHR or NR. Unless otherwise stated R can be alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl het or aryl.

As used herein the term carbamate refers to any of a group of organic compounds sharing a common functional group with the general structure NH CO O . Carbamates are esters of carbamic acid NHCOOH. Since carbamic acid contains nitrogen attached to a carboxyl group it is also an amide. Therefore carbamate esters may have alkyl or aryl groups substituted on the nitrogen or the amide function. For example ethyl carbamate is unsubstituted whereas ethyl N methylcarbamate has a methyl group attached to the nitrogen.

As used herein the term morpholine refers to an organic chemical compound having the chemical formula O CHCH NH. This heterocycle features both amine and ether functional groups. Because of the amine morpholine is a base its conjugate acid is called morpholinium. For example when morpholine is neutralized by hydrochloric acid one obtains the salt morpholinium chloride.

As used herein the term thiomorpholine refers to CHNS is a heterocyclic compound containing nitrogen and sulfur. It may be considered a thio derivative of morpholine.

As used herein the term piperazine refers to an organic compound that consists of a six member ring containing two opposing nitrogen atoms.

As used herein the term piperidine refers to an organic compound with the molecular formula CH NH. This heterocyclic amine consists of a six member ring containing five methylene units and one nitrogen atom.

As used herein the term acyl refers to any of a group or radical of the form RCO where R is an organic group.

As used herein the term furan refers to any of a class of aromatic heterocyclic compounds containing a ring of four carbon atoms and an oxygen atom for instance CHO. As used herein the term nitrofuran refers to a furan ring with a nitro group.

As used herein the term thiophene refers to the heterocyclic compound with the formula CHS. Consisting of a flat five membered ring it is aromatic as indicated by its extensive substitution reactions. Related to thiophene are benzothiophene and dibenzothiophene containing the thiophene ring fused with one and two benzene rings respectively. Compounds analogous to thiophene include furan CHO and pyrrole CHNH .

As used herein the term imidazole refers to an organic compound with the formula CHN. This aromatic heterocyclic is classified as an alkaloid. Imidazole refers to the parent compound whereas imidazoles are a class of heterocycles with similar ring structure but varying substituents.

As used herein the term oxazole refers to a five member heterocycle having three carbon atoms one oxygen atom one nitrogen atom and two double bonds the 1 3 isomer is aromatic.

As used herein the term oxazoline refers to an unsaturated heterocyclic compound containing a five member ring two double bonds one nitrogen and one oxygen atom any derivative of this compound.

As used herein the term thiazole refers to any of a class of unsaturated heterocyclic compounds containing a ring of three carbon atoms a sulfur and an nitrogen atom for instance the simplest one CHSN.

As used herein the term thiazoline refers to an unsaturated heterocyclic compound containing a five member ring two double bonds one nitrogen and one sulfur atom any derivative of this compound.

As used herein the term triazole refers to either one of a pair of isomeric chemical compounds with molecular formula CHN having a five member ring of two carbon atoms and three nitrogen atoms.

As used herein the term pyridine refers to any of a class of aromatic heterocyclic compounds containing a ring of five carbon atoms and an nitrogen atom for instance the simplest one CHN.

As used herein the term pyrazine refers to a diazine in which the two nitrogen atoms are in the para position.

As used herein the term naphthalene refers to an aromatic white solid hydrocarbon with formula CHand the structure of two fused benzene rings.

As used herein the term diketopiperazine refers to a class of cyclic organic compounds that result from peptide bonds between two amino acids to form a lactam. They are the smallest possible cyclic peptides.

As used herein the term quinoline refers to any of a class of aromatic heterocyclic compounds containing a benzene ring fused with a ring of five carbon atoms and an nitrogen atom for instance the simplest one CHN. Isoquinoline also known as benzo c pyridine or 2 benzanine is a heterocyclic aromatic organic compound. It is a structural isomer of quinoline. Isoquinoline and quinoline are benzopyridines which are composed of a benzene ring fused to a pyridine ring. In a broader sense the term isoquinoline is used to make reference to isoquinoline derivatives.

As used herein the term oxazolidinone refers to a class of heterocyclic organic compounds containing both nitrogen and oxygen in a 5 member ring.

As used herein the term het refers to a mono or bi cyclic ring system containing one or more heteroatom selected from O S and N. Each mono cyclic ring may be aromatic saturated or partially unsaturated. A bi cyclic ring system may include a mono cyclic ring containing one or more heteroatom fused with a cycloalkyl or aryl group. A bi cyclic ring system may also include a mono cyclic ring containing one or more heteroatom fused with another het mono cyclic ring system.

Examples of het include but are not limited to pyridine thiophene furan pyrazoline pyrrole pyrazoline pyrimidine 2 pyridyl 3 pyridyl 4 pyridyl 2 pyrimidinyl 4 pyrimidinyl 5 pyrimidinyl 3 pyrazinyl 3 pyridazinyl 4 pyridazinyl 4 oxo 2 imidazolyl 1 2 4 oxadiazole 1 3 4 oxadiazole 4 pyridazinyl 3 pyrazinyl 4 oxo 2 imidazolyl 2 imidazolyl 4 imidazolyl 3 isoxazolyl 4 isoxazolyl 5 isoxazolyl 3 pyrazolyl 4 pyrazolyl 5 pyrazolyl 2 oxazolyl 4 oxazolyl 4 oxo 2 oxazolyl 5 oxazolyl 1 2 3 oxathiazole 1 2 3 oxadiazole 1 2 5 oxadiazole 2 thiazolyl 4 thiazolyl 5 thiazolyl 3 isothiazole 4 isothiazole 5 isothiazole 2 furanyl 3 furanyl 2 thienyl 3 thienyl 2 pyrrolyl 3 pyrrolyl 3 isopyrrolyl 4 isopyrrolyl 5 isopyrrolyl 1 2 3 oxathiazole 1 oxide 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 yl 5 oxo 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl 1 2 4 thiadiazol 3 yl 1 2 4 thiadiazol 5 yl 3 oxo 1 2 4 thiadiazol 5 yl 1 3 4 thiadiazol 5 yl 2 oxo 1 3 4 thiadiazol 5 yl 1 2 4 triazol 3 yl 1 2 4 triazol 5 yl 1 2 3 4 tetrazol 5 yl 5 oxazolyl 3 isothiazolyl 4 isothiazolyl 5 isothiazolyl 1 3 4 oxadiazole 4 oxo 2 thiazolinyl 5 methyl 1 3 4 thiadiazol 2 yl thiazoledione 1 2 3 4 thiatriazole 1 2 4 dithiazolone phthalimide quinolinyl morpholinyl benzoxazoyl diazinyl triazinyl quinolinyl naphthyridinyl azetidinyl pyrrolidinyl hydantoinyl oxathiolanyl dioxolanyl imidazolidinyl and azabicyclo 2.2.1 heptyl.

As used herein the term heteroaryl refers to a mono or bicyclic het in which one or more cyclic ring is aromatic.

As used herein the term substituted heteroaryl refers to a heteroaryl moiety substituted with one or more functional groups selected from halogen alkyl hydroxyl amino alkoxy cyano and nitro.

As used herein the term substituted aryl refers to an aryl moiety having 1 3 substituents selected from halogen het alkyl substituted alkyl alkenyl alkynyl alkoxy cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl aryl cyano nitro OQ S S O Q S O Q OS O Q C NQ Q C NOQ Q S O N S O Q S O N S Q NQQ C O Q C S Q C O OQ OC O Q C O NQQ C S NQQ C O C Q OC O Q NQC O Q N Q C S NQQ N Q C S Q NQC O NQQ S O NQQ NQS O Q NQS O Q NQSQ and SNQQ. The het cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl alkenyl alkynyl and aryl being optionally substituted with 1 3 substituents selected from halogen and Q.

Each Qis independently selected from H alkyl cycloalkyl het cycloalkenyl and aryl. The het cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl and aryl being optionally substituted with 1 3 substitutents selected from halo and Q.

Each Qis independently selected from H halogen alkyl aryl cycloalkyl and het. The alkyl aryl cycloalkyl and het being optionally substituted with 1 3 substituents independently selected from halogen nitro cyano S O and Q.

Each Qis independently selected from Q OQ S O Q S O Q OS O Q C NQ Q S O N S O Q S O N S Q SC O Q NQQ C O Q C S Q C O OQ OC O Q C O NQQ S NQQ C O C Q OC O Q CN O S NQC O Q NQC S Q NQC O NQQ NQC S NQQ S Q NQQ NQS O Q NQS O Q NQSQ NO and SNQQ.

Each Qis independently selected from H alkyl cycloalkyl phenyl or naphthyl each optionally substituted with 1 4 substituents independently selected from F Cl Br I OQ SQ S O Q S O Q OS O Q NQQ C O Q C S Q C O OQ NO C O NQQ C S NQQ CN NQC O Q NQC S Q NQC O NQQ NQC S NQQ S O NQQ and NQS O Q. The alkyl cycloalkyl and cycloalkenyl being further optionally substituted with O or S.

Each Qis independently selected from H alkyl cycloalkyl heteroaryl phenyl or naphthyl each optionally substituted with 1 4 substituents independently selected from F Cl Br I OQ SQ S O Q S O Q OS O Q C NQ Q S O N S O Q S O N S Q SC O Q NQQ C O Q C S Q C O OQ OC O O C S NQQ C O C Q OC O Q CN NQC O Q NQC S Q NQC O NQQ NQC S NQQ S O NQQ NQS O Q NQS O Q NQSQ NO and SNQQ. The alkyl cycloalkyl and cycloalkenyl being further optionally substituted with O or S.

Each Qis independently selected from H alkyl and cycloalkyl. The alkyl and cycloalkyl optionally including 1 3 halogens.

Embodiments of the present disclosure provide novel anti cancer agents. Certain embodiments are directed to compounds that contain oxazole and or triazole groups. In an embodiment anti cancer agents are provided that disrupt mitosis. In other embodiments the anti cancer agents provided herein may inhibit other biological processes in cancer cells.

In embodiments the anti cancer agents of this disclosure may have useful activity against a variety of cancer cells. The in vitro activity of disclosed compounds may be assessed by standard testing procedures for instance in assays that measure inhibition of the growth of cancer cells or cell lines such as the NCI anti cancer drug screening assay.

In embodiments anti cancer agents described herein may be useful for treating for instance ameliorating or preventing cancer in a subject. In an embodiment a compound may be administered to a subject locally or systemically. In embodiments the anti cancer agent may be administered parenterally for instance subcutaneously intravenously or by inhalation or it may be administered topically. The anti cancer agent may be used alone or in combination with other anti cancer agents. In an embodiment the anti cancer agent may be administered in varying concentrations depending upon the cancer s susceptibility to the anti cancer agent being applied the extent of the disease and the general health of the subject.

In an embodiment the anti cancer compound may be incorporated into a pharmaceutical composition. In embodiments certain anti cancer agents described herein may be useful for treating cancer for instance leukemia non small cell lung cancer central nervous system CNS cancer skin cancer for instance melanoma ovarian cancer renal cancer prostate cancer breast cancer or colon cancer in a human or non human animal subject such as by administering an effective amount of the anti cancer compound to the subject.

Embodiments of the present disclosure encompass any racemic optically active polymorphic tautomeric or stereoisomeric form or mixture thereof of a compound of the disclosure which possesses the useful properties described herein.

In cases where compounds are sufficiently basic or acidic to form stable nontoxic acid or base salts use of the compounds as pharmaceutically acceptable salts may be appropriate. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts within the scope of embodiments of the present disclosure include organic acid addition salts formed with acids which form a physiological acceptable anion and inorganic salts.

Pharmaceutical compositions in accordance with embodiments of the disclosure may be prepared by combining the disclosed compounds with a solid or liquid pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and optionally with pharmaceutically acceptable adjuvants and excipients employing standard and conventional techniques. Solid form compositions include powders tablets dispersible granules capsules cachets and suppositories. A solid carrier may be at least one substance that may also function as a diluent flavoring agent solubilizer lubricant suspending agent binder tablet disintegrating agent and encapsulating agent. Inert solid carriers include magnesium carbonate magnesium stearate talc sugar lactose pectin dextrin starch gelatin cellulosic materials low melting wax cocoa butter and the like. Liquid form compositions include solutions suspensions and emulsions. For example there may be provided solutions of the compounds disclosed herein dissolved in water and water propylene glycol systems optionally containing suitable conventional coloring agents flavoring agents stabilizers and or thickening agents.

In an embodiment a pharmaceutical composition may be provided employing conventional techniques in unit dosage form containing effective or appropriate amounts of one or more active component. In embodiments the quantity of active component compound in a pharmaceutical composition and unit dosage form thereof may be varied or adjusted widely depending upon the particular application the potency of the particular compound and the desired concentration. In an embodiment the quantity of active component may range from 0.5 to 90 by weight of the composition.

In embodiments in therapeutic use for treating ameliorating preventing or combating cancer in animals the compounds or pharmaceutical compositions thereof may be administered orally parenterally topically and or by inhalation at a dosage to obtain and maintain a concentration or blood level of active component in the animal undergoing treatment that is therapeutically effective. In an embodiment such a therapeutically effective amount of dosage of active component may be in the range of about 0.1 to about 100 mg kg more preferably about 3.0 to about 50 mg kg of body weight day. It is to be understood that the dosages may vary depending upon the requirements of the patient the severity type stage grade or location of the cancer being treated and the particular compound being used. Also it is to be understood that the initial dosage administered may be increased beyond the above upper level in order to rapidly achieve the desired blood level or the initial dosage may be smaller than the optimum and the daily dosage may be progressively increased during the course of treatment depending on the particular situation. If desired the daily dose also may be divided into multiple doses for administration for instance two to four times per day.

In an embodiment an initial antimitotic anti cancer compound was provided and tested. Such compound is identified below as compound 9c compound ND 6732 . Compound 9c shown below is a 1 2 3 triazole derivative of 2 phenyl oxazole 4 carboxamide and it inhibits the growth of cancer cells at sub micromolar concentrations GI PC 3 504 nM MCF7 302 nM as described herein.

The antimitotic compounds described herein were derived from work on Mycobactin S 1 see below a natural product that exhibits anti tuberculosis activity and is produced by . During synthesis of Mycobactin S all synthetic intermediates were screened for biological activity. Surprisingly benzyl ester 2 a small fragment of the natural product exhibited anti tuberculosis activity with potency similar to that of Mycobactin S. While exploring derivatives of 2 it was found that 2 phenyl oxazole 4 carboxamide 3 also was active against

Shown below is the synthetic evolution of a natural product fragment two dimensional structural representations of anti tuberculosis compounds 2 and 3 and anti cancer compound 9c ND 6732 all derived from a fragment of natural product Mycobactin S. MIC values indicate in vitro anti tuberculosis activity against H37Rv in a standard GAST assay and the ICvalue indicates in vitro anti cancer activity against human breast cancer cell line MCF 7.

Surprisingly synthesizing new 2 phenyl oxazole 4 carboxamides generated a novel class of chemotherapeutic anti cancer agents. Described herein are the synthesis and structure activity relationships of several 1 2 3 triazole derivatives of the 2 phenyl oxazole 4 carboxamide fragment which exhibit potent anti cancer activity. Also described are mode of action studies based on in silico and in vitro work which demonstrate that these triazoles represent a new antimitotic chemotype.

In embodiments the exemplary compounds described above may be synthesized according to the following general procedures. The strategy for exploring the chemical space around the 2 phenyl oxazole 4 carboxamide fragment was based on click chemistry. More specifically the Cu I catalyzed azide alkyne cycloaddition CuAAC reaction was chosen. The CuAAC reaction produces 1 2 3 triazoles by linking terminal alkynes to organic azides so one of these two functional groups was installed onto the 2 phenyl oxazole 4 carboxamide. Given the presence of an amide bond in the fragment a terminal alkyne was installed to form the desired amide bond by condensation of propargyl amine with 2 phenyl oxazole 4 carboxylic acid.

Triazole derivatives of the 2 phenyl oxazole 4 carboxamide fragment were synthesized using the CuAAC reaction according to the protocols shown in Scheme 1. hydroxy amides 5a c were synthesized through EDC mediated coupling of benzoic acid derivatives 4a c to the benzyl ester of serine. One pot dehydrative cyclization and oxidation of the hydroxy amides with diethylaminosulfurtrifluoride DAST and DBU BrCClyielded oxazoles 6a c. Catalytic hydrogenation of the benzyl esters provided carboxylic acids 7a c. Carbodiimide coupling of 7a c with propargyl amine produced terminal alkynes 8a c. In a separate synthetic pathway a series of benzyl azides 11a d was synthesized by treating the corresponding benzyl bromides 10a d with sodium azide in DMSO Scheme 2 . As necessary the benzyl bromides were synthesized from alcohols. In the convergent synthetic step mixing terminal alkynes 8a c with benzyl azides 11a d in the presence of a catalytic amount of Cu I efficiently and regioselectively produced 1 4 substituted triazoles 9a l. Aqueous CuAAC conditions HO t BuOH 2 1 were utilized instead of organic reaction conditions because the aqueous conditions facilitated precipitation of the products with high purity.

Structure activity relationship studies later demonstrated that the 2 aryl 4 carboxamide oxazole could be replaced by a relatively simple aryl carboxamide. The synthesis of aryl carboxamide derivative 14 utilized a commercially available aryl acid Scheme 3 which allowed access to an anti cancer 1 2 3 triazole without the need to go through the three step synthesis of the 2 phenyl oxazole 4 carboxamide. The simplicity of reaction Scheme 3 shows that a large library of 1 2 3 triazole based anti cancer compounds could be quickly synthesized with combinatorial chemistry techniques and based on the present disclosure.

Embodiments of the present disclosure also provide methods for inhibiting the growth of a cancer cell using compounds described herein. As used herein the term cancer refers to any member of a class of diseases or disorders characterized by uncontrolled division of cells and the ability of these cells to invade other tissues either by direct growth into adjacent tissue through invasion or by implantation into distant sites by metastasis. Metastasis is defined as the stage in which cancer cells are transported through the bloodstream or lymphatic system.

Cancers are classified by the type of cell that the tumor resembles and therefore the tissue presumed to be the origin of the tumor. For example carcinomas are malignant tumors derived from epithelial cells. This group represents the most common cancers including the common forms of breast prostate lung and colon cancer. Lymphomas and leukemias include malignant tumors derived from blood and bone marrow cells. Sarcomas are malignant tumors derived from connective tissue or mesenchymal cells. Mesotheliomas are tumors derived from the mesothelial cells lining the peritoneum and the pleura. Gliomas are tumors derived from glia the most common type of brain cell. Germinomas are tumors derived from germ cells normally found in the testicle and ovary. Choriocarcinomas are malignant tumors derived from the placenta. Several specific non limiting examples of cancer cells which are inhibited by the compounds disclosed herein include CNS cancer cells such as neuroblastoma cells renal cell cancer cells melanoma cells leukemia cells colon cancer cells breast cancer cells ovarian cancer cells prostate cancer cells and non small cell lung cancer cells.

As discussed above compounds in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure are designed to exhibit antimitotic activity. In other embodiments compounds may be designed to target particular types of cancer cells. Briefly the method includes providing a cancer cell that responds to antimitotic therapy and contacting the cancer cell with at least one compound having the formula 

For the purposes of further explanation of the language above a 1 4 disubstituted triazole may appear as follows 

Following the compounds discussed above Scheme 4 below illustrates a broad presentation of a mechanism of synthesizing various compounds of the disclosure.

Efficacy in inhibiting cancer cell growth was demonstrated in some embodiments using the National Cancer Institute Anti cancer Drug Screen Assay. For additional details pertaining to the assay see for example Shoemaker R. H. The NCI60 Human Tumour Cell line Anticancer Drug Screen Nature Reviews 6 813 823 2006 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Briefly the cell lines comprising the National Cancer Institute Anti cancer Drug Screen panel were obtained and processed as described previously. After an initial acquisition in vitro expansion was followed by cryopreservation of a large number of master stock samples for serial rethawing at 20 passage intervals. The parental cells included the small cell lung carcinoma cell line UMCC 1 the human leukemia cell line HL 60 estrogen receptor positive MCF7 and ZR 75B human breast carcinoma cells and estrogen receptor negative MDA MB231 human breast carcinoma cells. The parental cells were grown in monolayers or in suspension in Eagle s minimum essential medium containing 10 fetal bovine serum 2 mM L glutamine 100 units ml penicillin and 100 g ml streptomycin in 5 COat 37 C.

The current version of COMPARE is configured to calculate pairwise correlations with the logof one of the specific National Cancer Institute cell line activity parameters GI TGI or LC. The GIis the National Cancer Institute designation for a time zero corrected ICvalue and is defined as the concentration of an agent that causes a 50 growth inhibition. Thus log GIvalues for a seed or probe compound is correlated with the corresponding data from each compound in a database. Table 1 shows the in vitro anti cancer activity of two of the triazole compounds as compared to known chemotherapeutic agents.

As shown in Table 1 the addition of the triazole moiety unexpectedly created potent anti cancer activity in these compounds. This activity was more potent than that of known antimitotic agents vincristine colchicine and 2 methoxyestradiol. shows the results of biological testing of compound 9c ND 6732 when the NCI Assay results were analyzed for trends in cancer cell type selectivity. A mean graph of activity compares the relative activity of compound 9c ND 6732 against all 60 cell lines in the NCI assay. Although all three compounds showed anti cancer activity compound 9c ND 6732 was the most potent inhibitor of MCF7 cell growth.

Table 2 shows the effect of truncation of the aryl ethyl moiety on the IC50 value of various compounds when applied to MCF7 cells using the NCI Anti cancer Drug Screen Assay.

Table 3 shows the effect of truncation of the aryl carboxamide moiety on the IC50 value of various 1 2 3 triazole compounds when applied to MCF7 cells using the NCI Drug Screen Assay.

Shown below in Table 4 are the results of the COMPARE analysis of compound 9c ND 67.32 as compared to several known anti cancer agents.

Various analogs of the oxazole triazole scaffold were prepared and tested for their anti cancer activity in various cellular assays testing was done as described previously . The result of this SAR structure activity relationship study is shown in Table 5 and the compound structures are displayed in Table 6.

Without being bound by theory it is believed that the anti cancer activity of various disclosed compounds disclosed herein is due to antimitotic activity. As shown in confocal microscopy of cells treated with the 1 2 3 triazoles showed fragmented mitotic spindles which is characteristic of antimicrotubule compounds. In agreement with these results shows that compound 9c ND 6732 results in cell cycle arrest at the G2M phase of mitosis. shows the results of a tubulin polymerization assay which demonstrates potent inhibition of tubulin polymerization by the 1 2 3 triazoles .

In another embodiment a method for treating cancer in a subject is provided. The method includes selecting a subject having or at risk for developing a cancer that responds to antimitotic therapy and administering to the subject a therapeutically effective dose of at least one compound disclosed herein.

Although the anti cancer compounds disclosed herein can be used to treat a wide variety of cancers in animal and human subjects the compounds are particularly effective at treating CNS cancers such as neuroblastomas renal cell cancers melanomas leukemias colon cancers breast cancers ovarian cancers prostate cancers and non small cell lung cancers.

As used herein the term therapeutically effective amount includes a quantity of a specified compound such as one of the oxazole or triazole containing anti cancer agents disclosed herein for instance compound 9c ND 6732 required to achieve a desired effect in a subject being treated. For instance this may be the amount necessary to treat a cancer such as a CNS cancer melanoma renal cell cancer leukemia colon cancer breast cancer ovarian cancer prostate cancer or non small cell lung cancer in a subject or a dose sufficient to prevent advancement or to cause regression of a disease such as the tumor or which is capable of relieving symptoms caused by a disease such as pain inflammation neurological symptoms or fatigue.

Various dosage ranges and administration schedules may be adopted for therapeutic treatment of cancers in animal and human subjects with the anti cancer agents disclosed herein. In an embodiment such a therapeutically effective amount of active component may be in the range of about 0.1 to about 100 mg kg or more preferably about 3.0 to about 50 mg kg of body weight day. Such dosages may vary depending upon the requirements of the patient the severity type stage grade or location of the cancer being treated and the particular compound being used.

In some embodiments the anti cancer agent may be administered in conjunction with one or more other anti cancer agents such as alkylating agents such as nitrogen mustards for example chlorambucil chlormethine cyclophosphamide ifosfamide and melphalan nitrosoureas for example carmustine fotemustine lomustine and streptozocin platinum compounds for example carboplatin cisplatin oxaliplatin and bbr3464 busulfan dacarbazine mechlorethamine procarbazine temozolomide thiotepa and uramustine antimetabolites such as folic acid for example methotrexate pemetrexed and raltitrexed purine for example cladribine clofarabine fludarabine mercaptopurine and tioguanine pyrimidine for example capecitabine cytarabine fluorouracil and gemcitabine plant alkaloids such as podophyllum for example etoposide and teniposide taxane for example docetaxel and paclitaxel vinca for example vinblastine vincristine vindesine and vinorelbine cytotoxic antitumor antibiotics such as anthracycline family members for example daunorubicin doxorubicin epirubicin idarubicin mitoxantrone and valrubicin bleomycin hydroxyurea and mitomycin topoisomerase inhibitors such as topotecan and irinotecan monoclonal antibodies such as alemtuzumab bevacizumab cetuximab gemtuzumab rituximab and trastuzumab photosensitizers such as aminolevulinic acid methyl aminolevulinate porfimer sodium and verteporfin cytokines such as IL 2 and IL 27 and other agents such as alitretinoin altretamine amsacrine anagrelide arsenic trioxide asparaginase bexarotene bortezomib celecoxib denileukin diftitox erlotinib estramustine gefitinib hydroxycarbamide imatinib pentostatin masoprocol mitotane pegaspargase and tretinoin.

In some embodiments the anti cancer agent for instance compound 9c ND 6732 may be administered systemically whereas in other embodiments the anti cancer agent may be administered locally. An effective dose of a disclosed anti cancer agent may be administered systemically in a variety of ways. For instance systemic administration may be by injection for instance intravenous intra arterial subcutaneous intramuscular or intra peritoneal injection. Systemic administration also may include transdermal or inhalational administration. By way of example one method of administration to the lungs of an individual may be by inhalation through the use of a nebulizer or inhaler. For example the anti cancer agent may be formulated in an aerosol or particulate and drawn into the lungs using a standard nebulizer well known to those skilled in the art. Transdermal administration may be accomplished for example by application of a topical cream or ointment or by using a transdermal patch.

An effective amount of an anti cancer agent may be administered in a single dose or in multiple doses for example daily or every four eight or twelve hours during a course of treatment. In one embodiment a therapeutically effective amount of an anti cancer agent may be administered as a single pulse dose as a bolus dose or as pulse doses administered over time. In specific non limiting examples pulse doses of an anti cancer agent may be administered during the course of a day during the course of a week or during the course of a month. In some embodiments the anti cancer agent may be administered to the subject on a schedule that includes several daily doses of the anti cancer agent followed by a withdrawal period for example to reduce toxicity. For instance in certain embodiments the anti cancer agent may be administered daily for two three four five six seven or more days in a row followed by a period in which the drug may not be administered for one two three four five six seven or more days. This cycle may be repeated until the desired therapeutic effect is achieved for example tumor regression or remission. In certain examples the cycle may be repeated from about two to about ten times or even more.

In some embodiments the anti cancer agent may be administered locally. In certain embodiments this may be accomplished by local injection into the body part that is affected by the cancer for example by injecting or infusing the anti cancer agent directly into the tumor. In other embodiments local administration may be accomplished by implanting a sustained release device such as a pump or a micropump or sustained release implant such as a bead or gel that contains the anti cancer agent and slowly releases the drug into the desired area over time.

Although certain embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that a wide variety of alternate and or equivalent embodiments or implementations calculated to achieve the same purposes may be substituted for the embodiments shown and described without departing from the scope. Those with skill in the art will readily appreciate that embodiments may be implemented in a very wide variety of ways. This application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the embodiments discussed herein. Therefore it is manifestly intended that embodiments be limited only by the claims and the equivalents thereof.

