---

title: Proximity-based coupling service
abstract: Systems and methods may provide for implementing a proximity-based coupling service. In one example, the method may include detecting, utilizing a first communication protocol, the presence of a second device by a first device, initiating a wireless network utilizing a second communication protocol, wherein the first device is to serve as a software-enabled access point (SoftAP), and configuring the second device to join the wireless network utilizing the second communication protocol.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09485795&OS=09485795&RS=09485795
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 09485795
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120331
---
Embodiments generally relate to a coupling service for proximate devices. More particularly embodiments relate to utilizing onboard radio transmitters to generate a wireless network between proximate devices.

Generally connecting a first device to a second device via Wi Fi requires the use of a hardware router host that facilitates a Wi Fi network such as a personal area network PAN . However a hardware router may not always be available to serve as host.

In other cases a software router may be used. However establishing a Wi Fi network utilizing a software router may difficult as among other things there may no protocol for exchanging network credentials and device information e.g. IP information between devices or resolving which device will function as network host.

Turning now to a block diagram of a computer system for implementing a proximity based coupling service is shown. The computer system may include a first device and a second device .

The first device may be among other things any programmable machine that may carry out a sequence of logical operations. Examples of the first device may include a laptop desktop personal digital assistant PDA media player a mobile Internet device MID any smart device such as a smart phone smart tablet smart TV or the like. In this embodiment the first device may be a user device such as a tablet device. The first device may include a first device processor a first device interface a first device first transceiver a first device second transceiver and a first device memory component .

The first device processor may include a processing component that may be utilized to execute computer readable executable instructions. For example as will be discussed in greater detail the first device processor may be configured to execute various software applications relating to a proximity based coupling service.

The first device interface may be a component configured to allow a user to interact with the user device . For example in this embodiment the user device interface may be a tablet device screen including a graphical user interface GUI . In other embodiments the user device interface may be a laptop screen a tablet device screen a desktop monitor or the like.

The first device first transceiver and the first device second transceiver may be transmitter receiver devices that enable the first device to wirelessly communicate with other devices e.g. the second device . In this embodiment the first device first transceiver may be configured to communicate wirelessly via Wi Fi e.g. LAN MAN Wireless LANS Wi Fi IEEE 802.16 2004 and the first device second transceiver may be configured to communicate via Bluetooth e.g. IEEE 802.15.1 2005 Wireless Personal Area Networks . In other embodiments the first device first transceiver and the first device second transceiver may be configured to communicate via various other communication protocols such as IEEE 802.16 2004 LAN MAN Broadband Wireless LANS WiMAX Zigbee IEEE 802.15.4 etc. a cellular telephone connection e.g. W CDMA UMTS CDMA2000 IS 856 IS 2000 etc. a wired data connection e.g. RS 232 Electronic Industries Alliance EIA Ethernet e.g. IEEE 802.3 2005 LAN MAN CSMA CD Access Method power line communication e.g. X10 IEEE P1675 USB e.g. Universal Serial Bus 2.0 Specification etc. depending upon the circumstances.

The first device memory component may be any device configured to store data. In this example the first device memory may store among other things a first device user application a media file a first device service manager application and a first device offload manager application . In addition the first device memory may also store a first device network credential a first device network invitation first device identification information and second device assigned identification information .

The first device user application may be any application usable by a user. In this example the first device user application may be configured to facilitate exchanges of media files e.g. photos video files between devices. So in this example the first user may use the first device user application to send the media file a photo image to the second device .

The first device service manager application may be an application configured to among other things serve as a middleware component. For example in serving as a middleware component the first device service manager application may provide an application programming interface API by which applications such as the first device user application may interface with hardware components such as the first device first transceiver and the first device second transceiver .

So from the application side the first device service manager application may be configured to capture user input e.g. the user directing the application to send a photo that may be used to direct the activities of the hardware components. From the hardware side the first device service manager application may facilitate an end to end data connection e.g. a Wi Fi connection for use by an application e.g. the first device user application . For example the first device service manager application may be configured to among other things generate or provide any information e.g. device identification information necessary to facilitate a data connection.

The first device offload manager application may be an application configured to among other things serve as an interface between the first device service manager application and hardware components. For example as will be discussed in greater detail the first device offload manager application may be used to establish a Wi Fi SoftAP personal area network PAN between the first device and the second device wherein the first device may assume the role of both Wi Fi PAN software enabled access point SoftAP and a Wi Fi PAN client. In this example the second device may operate as a Wi Fi PAN client hosted by the first device .

The first device network credential may be authentication information that may be used by another device e.g. the second device to establish a secure connection with the first device . In this example the first device network credential may include a network name and a network password. The first device network credential may be generated by the first device offload manager application .

The first device network invitation may be an invitation to another device e.g. the second device to join the Wi Fi PAN initiated by the first device . The first device network invitation may be generated by the first device offload manager application .

The first device identification information may include information that may be used to identify the first device to another device e.g. the second device . For example the first device identification information may include an IP address of the first device which may be used to identify the first device as a SoftAP.

The second device assigned identification information may include information generated by the first device that may be used to identify another device e.g. the second device as a client on the Wi Fi PAN hosted by the first device . For example the second device identification information may an IP address assigned to the second device by the first device which may be used to identify the second device as a client. In this example the first device may be configured to transmit one or more of the first device network credential the first device network invitation the first device identification information and the second device assigned identification information to the second device via an invitation communication.

The second device may be among other things any programmable machine that may carry out a sequence of logical operations. In this embodiment the second device may be a user device such as a smart phone. The second device may include a second device processor a second device interface a second device first transceiver a second device second transceiver and a second device memory component .

The second device processor may include a processing component that may be utilized to execute computer readable executable instructions. For example as will be discussed in greater detail the second device processor may be configured to execute various software applications relating to a proximity based coupling service.

The second device interface may be a component configured to allow a user to interact with the user device . For example in this embodiment the user device interface may be a smart phone screen including a graphical user interface GUI . In other embodiments the user device interface may be a laptop screen a tablet device screen a desktop monitor or the like.

The second device first transceiver and the second device second transceiver may be transmitter receiver devices that enable the first device to wirelessly communicate with other devices e.g. the first device . In this embodiment the second device first transceiver may be configured to communicate wirelessly via Wi Fi e.g. LAN MAN Wireless LANS Wi Fi . IEEE 802.16 2004 and the second device second transceiver may be configured to Bluetooth e.g. IEEE 802.15.1 2005 Wireless Personal Area Networks . In other embodiments the first device first transceiver and the first device second transceiver may be configured to communicate wirelessly via various other wireless communication protocols.

The second device memory component may be any device configured to store data. In this example the second device memory may store among other things a second device user application a second device service manager application a second device offload manager application and a second device network profile .

The second device user application may be any application usable by a user. In this example similar to the first device application the second device user application may be configured to facilitate exchanges of media files e.g. photos video files between devices. So in this example the second user may use the second device user application to receive the media file from the first device .

The second device service manager application may be an application configured to among other serve as a middleware component. For example in serving as a middleware component the second user service device manager application may provide an application programming interface API by which applications such as the second device user application may interface with hardware components such as the second device second transceiver and the second device second transceiver .

So from the application side the second user service device manager application may be configured to capture user input e.g. the user directing the application to send a photo that may be used to direct the activities of the hardware components. From the hardware side the service manager application may be configured to facilitate an end to end data connection e.g. a Wi Fi connection for use by an application e.g. the second device user application .

The second device offload manager application may be an application configured to among other things serve as an interface between an application e.g. the second device service manager application and a hardware component. In this example the second device offload manager application may be configured to connect to a Wi Fi PAN hosted by the first device i.e. where the first device assumes the role of SoftAP wherein the second device assumes the role of a Wi Fi PAN client. The second device offload manager application may utilize the first device network credential to establish the connection.

The second device network profile may be profile information generated by the second device offload manager application that may be used to connect to the Wi Fi PAN hosted by the first device . The second device network profile may be generated using the network credential .

The arrangement and numbering of blocks depicted in is not intended to imply an order of operations to the exclusion of other possibilities. Those of skill in the art will appreciate that the foregoing systems and methods are susceptible of various modifications and alterations.

For example in the embodiment described in as discussed above the first device service manager application and the first device offload manager application are separate applications. However this need not necessarily be the case. In other embodiments the first device offload manager application may be part of the first device service manager application . Similarly the second device off load manager application may be part of the second device service manager application .

Turning now to a flowchart of an example of a method of implementing a proximity based coupling service in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is shown. In this example a first user may utilize a first device such as the first device to send a photo image to a second user utilizing a second device such as the second device . In doing so the first device may initiate a Wi Fi PAN wherein the first device operates as a SoftAP and a client and the second device operates as a client.

The method might be implemented as a set of logic instructions stored in a machine or computer readable storage medium such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM firmware flash memory etc. in configurable logic such as for example programmable logic arrays PLAs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs complex programmable logic devices CPLDs in fixed functionality logic hardware using circuit technology such as for example application specific integrated circuit ASIC complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS or transistor transistor logic TTL technology or any combination thereof. For example computer program code to carry out operations shown in the method may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages.

The process may begin at processing block . At processing block the first user may utilize a first device user application such as the first device user application to request a photo image such as the media file be sent to the second device. At processing block the first device user application may transmit the first user s request to a first device service manager application such as the first device service manager application . At processing block the first device service manager application may transmit a query to a first device offload manager application such as the first device offload manager application to determine if there are any devices nearby.

At processing block the first device offload manager application may determine that the second device is nearby. In particular the first device offload manager application may utilize a first device first transceiver such as the first device first transceiver to transmit a detection communication to detect the presence of the second device. The first device first transceiver may be configured to communicate via Bluetooth. The second device may utilize a second device first transceiver such as the second device first transceiver to acknowledge presence. The second device first transceiver may also be configured to communicate via Bluetooth. Upon receiving acknowledgement as to the presence of the second device the first device offload manager may communicate the presence of the second device to the first device user application.

At processing block the first device user application may ask the first user to user to verify that the second device is the destination device e.g. using a query displayed on a first device interface and the first user may indicate that the second device is the destination for the photo image. At this point at processing block the first device offload manager application may initiate a Wi Fi PAN by generating a network credential such as the first device network credential . The network credential may include a network name and a network password. In this Wi Fi PAN the first device may serve as SoftAP. The Wi Fi PAN may be facilitated by a first device second transceiver such as the first device second transceiver . The first device first transceiver may be configured to communicate via Wi Fi.

At processing block the first device offload manager application may utilize the first device first transceiver to transmit an encrypted invitation communication to the second device. The invitation communication may include the network credential an encryption key a first device network invitation such as the first device network invitation and first device identification information such as the first device identification information . The first device network invitation may be used to invite the second device to join the Wi Fi PAN while the first device identification information may be used to identify the first device as SoftAP of the Wi Fi PAN.

At processing block the second device may receive the invitation communication. At processing block the invitation communication may be decrypted by a second device offload manager application such as the second device offload manager application and forwarded to a second device user application such as the second device user application . The second device user application may then generate an invitation message to the user indicating that the first device would like to initiate a connection and send a media file. At processing block the user may accept the invitation. At processing block the second device user application may transmit an encrypted invitation response to the first device indicating the invitation has been accepted.

At processing block a second device service manager application such as the second device service manager application may direct the second device offload manager to configure the second device to join the Wi Fi PAN hosted the first device. The second device may do so by utilizing a second device second transceiver such as the second device second transceiver . The second device second transceiver may be configured to communicate via Wi Fi.

At processing block the second device offload manager application may generate a second device network profile such as the second device network profile . At processing block the second device offload manager application may utilize the network credential i.e. the network name the network password sent in the invitation communication to join the Wi Fi PAN.

At processing block upon recognizing the second device is connected to the Wi Fi PAN the first device offload manager application may assign second device identification information such as the second device identification information to the second device. The second device identification information may include an IP address and may identify the second device as a client of the Wi Fi PAN.

At processing block the first device offload manager may transmit the second device identification information for receipt by the first device service manager application. At this point when the first device acknowledges the presence of the second device on the Wi Fi PAN the Wi Fi connection may be complete. At processing block the first device may utilize the Wi Fi connection to transmit a data communication including the photo image to the second device. At processing block the process may terminate.

The sequence and numbering of blocks depicted in is not intended to imply an order of operations to the exclusion of other possibilities. Those of skill in the art will appreciate that the foregoing systems and methods are susceptible of various modifications variations and alterations.

For example in the embodiment illustrated in the wireless network utilizing a second communication protocol may be initiated as part of a process of sending a photo image from the first device to the second device. However in embodiments of the present invention the initiating a wireless network between two devices need not be limited to utilizing a user application. In other embodiments initiating a wireless network between two devices need not be associated with implementing a user application at all.

Embodiments may therefore provide a method of implementing a proximity based coupling service comprising detecting utilizing a first communication protocol a presence of a second device by a first device and initiating a wireless network utilizing a second communication protocol wherein the first device is to serve as a software enabled access point SoftAP . The method may also provide transmitting utilizing the first communication protocol an invitation communication to the second device wherein the invitation communication includes an invitation to join the wireless network utilizing the second communication protocol accepting at the second device the invitation to join the wireless network utilizing the second communication protocol and configuring the second device to join the wireless network utilizing the second communication protocol.

In one example the initiating the wireless network utilizing a second communication protocol includes generating a network credential wherein the network credential includes a network name and a network password.

In one example the invitation communication includes one or more of a network credential an encryption key and identification information for the first device.

In another example configuring the second device to join the wireless network utilizing the second communication protocol includes generating a second device network profile.

In another example the method may include assigning second device identification information to the second device.

In still another example the invitation communication includes an indication that the first device is to serve as software enabled access point SoftAP .

In yet another example the method may include transmitting a data communication from the first device to the second device over the wireless network utilizing the second communication protocol.

Embodiments may also include at least one machine readable medium comprising a plurality of instructions that in response to being executed on a computing device cause the computing device to carry out any of the examples of the aforementioned method an apparatus for implementing a proximity based coupling service configured to perform any of the examples of the aforementioned method and a system for implementing a proximity based coupling service comprising a processor and a memory device configured to perform the method of any of the examples of the aforementioned method.

Embodiments may also provide a method of implementing a proximity based coupling service comprising detecting utilizing a first communication protocol a presence of a second device by a first device and initiating a wireless network utilizing a second communication protocol wherein the first device is to serve as a software enabled access point SoftAP . The method may also include transmitting utilizing the first communication protocol an invitation communication to the second device wherein the invitation communication includes an invitation to join the wireless network utilizing the second communication protocol and receiving an invitation response indicating the second device has accepted the invitation to join the wireless network utilizing the second communication protocol. In addition the method may also include assigning identification information to the second device wherein the identification information is to identify the second device as a client on the wireless network utilizing the second communication protocol and transmitting a data communication over the wireless network utilizing the second communication protocol.

In one example the initiating the wireless network utilizing a second communication protocol includes generating a network credential wherein the network credential includes a network name and a network password.

In still another example the invitation communication includes one or more of a network credential an encryption key and identification information for the first device.

In another example the method may include assigning second device identification information to the second device.

In still another example the invitation communication includes an indication that the first device is to serve as software enabled access point SoftAP .

Embodiments may also include at least one machine readable medium comprising a plurality of instructions that in response to being executed on a computing device cause the computing device to carry out any of the examples of the aforementioned method an apparatus for implementing a proximity based coupling service configured to perform any of the examples of the aforementioned method and a system for implementing a proximity based coupling service comprising a processor and a memory device configured to perform the method of any of the examples of the aforementioned method.

Embodiments may also provide a method of implementing a proximity based coupling service comprising receiving utilizing a first communication protocol an invitation communication wherein the invitation communication includes an invitation to join a wireless network utilizing a second communication protocol and transmitting an invitation response indicating acceptance of the invitation to join the wireless network utilizing the second communication protocol. The method may also provide generating a network profile for the wireless network utilizing the second communication protocol and receiving a data communication over the wireless network utilizing the second communication protocol.

In one example the invitation communication includes one or more of a network credential an encryption key and identification information for the first device.

In another example the method may include assigning device identification information to the second device.

In one example the invitation communication includes an indication that a device transmitting the invitation communication is to serve as software enabled access point SoftAP .

Embodiments may also include at least one machine readable medium comprising a plurality of instructions that in response to being executed on a computing device cause the computing device to carry out any of the examples of the aforementioned method an apparatus for implementing a proximity based coupling service configured to perform any of the examples of the aforementioned method and a system for implementing a proximity based coupling service comprising a processor and a memory device configured to perform the method of any of the examples of the aforementioned method.

Still another embodiment may provide a system comprising a first device and a second device wherein the first device includes a first device processing component and a first device memory device. The first device may also include a detection module to detect utilizing a first communication protocol a presence of the second device an initiation module to initiate a wireless network utilizing a second communication protocol wherein the first device is to serve as a software enabled access point SoftAP a invitation module to transmit utilizing the first communication protocol an invitation communication to the second device wherein the invitation communication is to include an invitation to join the wireless network utilizing the second communication protocol. The first device may also include a first device receiving module to receive an invitation response indicating the second device has accepted the invitation to join the wireless network utilizing the second communication protocol an assignment module to assign identification information to the second device wherein the identification information is to identify the second device as a client on the wireless network utilizing the second communication protocol and a data communication transmitting module to transmit a data communication over the wireless network utilizing the second communication protocol. The second device may include a second device processing component and a second device memory device. The second device may also include an acknowledgement module to acknowledge utilizing the first communication protocol the presence of the second device a second device receiving module to receive the invitation communication to the second device and an invitation response module to transmit utilizing the first communication protocol the invitation response. The second device may also include a network profile module to generate a network profile for the wireless network utilizing the second communication protocol and a data communication receiving module to receive the data communication over the wireless network utilizing the second communication protocol.

Yet another embodiment may provide at least one computer readable storage medium comprising a set of instructions which if executed by a processor cause a computer to detect utilizing a first communication protocol a presence of a second device by a first device and initiate a wireless network utilizing a second communication protocol wherein the first device is to serve as a software enabled access point SoftAP . The set of instruction if executed may also cause a computer to transmit utilizing the first communication protocol an invitation communication to the second device wherein the invitation communication is to include an invitation to join the wireless network utilizing the second communication protocol and receive an invitation response indicating the second device has accepted the invitation to join the wireless network utilizing the second communication protocol. In addition the set of instructions if executed may also cause a computer to assign identification information to the second device wherein the identification information is to identify the second device as a client on the wireless network utilizing the second communication protocol and transmit a data communication over the wireless network utilizing the second communication protocol.

In addition another embodiment may provide at least one computer readable storage medium comprising a set of instructions which if executed by a processor cause a computer to receive utilizing a first communication protocol an invitation communication wherein the invitation communication is to include an invitation to join a wireless network utilizing a second communication protocol and transmit an invitation response indicating acceptance of the invitation to join the wireless network utilizing the second communication protocol. The set of instructions if executed may also cause a computer to generate a network profile for the wireless network utilizing the second communication protocol and receive a data communication over the wireless network utilizing the second communication protocol.

Various embodiments may be implemented using hardware elements software elements or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements may include processors microprocessors circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits application specific integrated circuits ASIC programmable logic devices PLD digital signal processors DSP field programmable gate array FPGA logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth. Examples of software may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints.

One or more aspects of at least one embodiment may be implemented by representative instructions stored on a machine readable medium which represents various logic within the processor which when read by a machine causes the machine to fabricate logic to perform the techniques described herein. Such representations known as IP cores may be stored on a tangible machine readable medium and supplied to various customers or manufacturing facilities to load into the fabrication machines that actually make the logic or processor.

Techniques described herein may therefore provide a feed forward system that ensures both real time operation of the consumer video pipeline and dynamic updating of the operating pipeline to deliver optimal visual perceptual quality and viewing experience. In particular a discrete control system for the video pipeline can dynamically adapt operating points in order to optimize a global configuration of interactive component modules that are related to video perceptual quality. In a series configuration the perceptual quality analysis module may be placed before the video processing pipeline and parameters determined for the post processing pipeline may be used for the same frame. In the case of distributed computation of the quality analysis block or when perceptual quality analysis needs to be performed at intermediate points in the pipeline the parameters determined using a given frame may be applied on the next frame to ensure real time operation. Distributed computation is sometimes beneficial in reducing complexity as certain elements for perceptual quality computation may already be computed in the post processing pipeline and can be re used. Illustrated approaches may also be compatible with closed loop control where the perceptual quality analysis is re used at the output of the video processing pipeline to estimate output quality which is also used by the control mechanism.

Embodiments of the present invention are applicable for use with all types of semiconductor integrated circuit IC chips. Examples of these IC chips include but are not limited to processors controllers chipset components programmable logic arrays PLAs memory chips network chips and the like. In addition in some of the drawings signal conductor lines are represented with lines. Some may be different to indicate more constituent signal paths have a number label to indicate a number of constituent signal paths and or have arrows at one or more ends to indicate primary information flow direction. This however should not be construed in a limiting manner. Rather such added detail may be used in connection with one or more exemplary embodiments to facilitate easier understanding of a circuit. Any represented signal lines whether or not having additional information may actually comprise one or more signals that may travel in multiple directions and may be implemented with any suitable type of signal scheme e.g. digital or analog lines implemented with differential pairs optical fiber lines and or single ended lines.

Example sizes models values ranges may have been given although embodiments of the present invention are not limited to the same. As manufacturing techniques e.g. photolithography mature over time it is expected that devices of smaller size could be manufactured. In addition well known power ground connections to IC chips and other components may or may not be shown within the figures for simplicity of illustration and discussion and so as not to obscure certain aspects of the embodiments of the invention. Further arrangements may be shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring embodiments of the invention and also in view of the fact that specifics with respect to implementation of such block diagram arrangements are highly dependent upon the platform within which the embodiment is to be implemented i.e. such specifics should be well within purview of one skilled in the art. Where specific details e.g. circuits are set forth in order to describe example embodiments of the invention it should be apparent to one skilled in the art that embodiments of the invention can be practiced without or with variation of these specific details. The description is thus to be regarded as illustrative instead of limiting.

Some embodiments may be implemented for example using a machine or tangible computer readable medium or article which may store an instruction or a set of instructions that if executed by a machine may cause the machine to perform a method and or operations in accordance with the embodiments. Such a machine may include for example any suitable processing platform computing platform computing device processing device computing system processing system computer processor or the like and may be implemented using any suitable combination of hardware and or software. The machine readable medium or article may include for example any suitable type of memory unit memory device memory article memory medium storage device storage article storage medium and or storage unit for example memory removable or non removable media erasable or non erasable media writeable or re writeable media digital or analog media hard disk floppy disk Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROM Compact Disk Recordable CD R Compact Disk Rewriteable CD RW optical disk magnetic media magneto optical media removable memory cards or disks various types of Digital Versatile Disk DVD a tape a cassette or the like. The instructions may include any suitable type of code such as source code compiled code interpreted code executable code static code dynamic code encrypted code and the like implemented using any suitable high level low level object oriented visual compiled and or interpreted programming language.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities e.g. electronic within the computing system s registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computing system s memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The term coupled may be used herein to refer to any type of relationship direct or indirect between the components in question and may apply to electrical mechanical fluid optical electromagnetic electromechanical or other connections. In addition the terms first second etc. may be used herein only to facilitate discussion and carry no particular temporal or chronological significance unless otherwise indicated.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate from the foregoing description that the broad techniques of the embodiments of the present invention can be implemented in a variety of forms. Therefore while the embodiments of this invention have been described in connection with particular examples thereof the true scope of the embodiments of the invention should not be so limited since other modifications will become apparent to the skilled practitioner upon a study of the drawings specification and following claims.

