---

title: Token-based access control
abstract: Systems and methods for enabling token-based access control to data are provided. In particular, some embodiments use a token-based access management system to allow or restrict an individual's ability to access data. The access management system uses tokens to define rules (e.g., a Boolean matching rule or algorithm that results in a true/false output indicating the decision) within the access management system to determine if the token is valid and if the individual should be granted access to the requested data. Tokens may further have tool constraints for controlling access. In some cases, the tokens may expire upon completion of a task or after a pre-set amount of time. A generic workflow utilizing tokens and at least one specific workflow showing employees utilizing tokens as part of performing a task responsive to a user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08887260&OS=08887260&RS=08887260
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 08887260
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121025
---
Various embodiments of the present invention generally relate to information privacy. More specifically various embodiments of the present invention relate systems and methods for providing token based access control to selected portions of data.

Companies can store a tremendous amount of end user data. Examples of end user data include but are not limited to addresses credit card information photographs e mails healthcare records financial records electronic documents messages associations with other end users and other types of information. Not only do the end users have an expectation of privacy but in many cases there can be legal requirements on the dissemination and use of the data. As a result unauthorized access and or use of the end user s data can result in dissatisfied customers and potential legal liability.

Not only does the data need to be protected from unauthorized access external from the company but also from unauthorized access internally e.g. from employees . However employees of the companies may need access to different data in order to perform their job e.g. to resolve user issues . Traditional tools for allowing company employees access to end user data do not typically dynamically allocate access to the data. Instead each employee may have access to all of the data or to very large portions of the data. Moreover these traditional tools typically do not provide any restrictions on how the data can be used once access has been granted to the tool. As such there are a number of challenges and inefficiencies found in traditional tools for granting access to end user data.

Systems and methods are described for providing token based access control to various data sets and or portions thereof. In some embodiments a method comprises assigning a set of workflow specific tokens to a user in response to a workflow event e.g. a request from an end user to resolve an issue . The set of workflow specific tokens grant one or more users temporary access e.g. less than twenty four hours to selected portions of data. The selected portions of data are typically only the portions of the data needed for the user to respond to the workflow event.

Once a request has been received from a workflow tool to allow the user to access the data a determination can be made by using the workflow specific tokens which portion of the data can be accessed. In some embodiments a set of default tokens can also be assigned to the user that includes a set of default permissions and or restrictions to portions of the data. The default tokens can have a higher priority level than the set of workflow specific tokens in some cases. In some cases a cryptographic message authentication code can be included with each token allowing for a detection of modification or tampering of the tokens.

In some embodiments a computer implemented method for providing temporary access to selected portions of end user data can include generating a set of default tokens for a specific user e.g. on a periodic or predetermined schedule . Then a set of workflow tokens can be generated based on a workflow event e.g. a job needed to be done by the specific user . In some cases at least some of the workflow tokens are assigned to the specific user to allow the specific user temporary access to selected portions of a data set. Upon receiving a data access request a determination can be made based on the default tokens and workflow specific tokens assigned to the specific user to which portion of the end user data can access. In at least one embodiment a deactivation event can be associated with the workflow token. Then upon detection of the deactivation event the workflow token can be deactivated.

Embodiments of the present invention also include computer readable storage media containing sets of instructions to cause one or more processors to perform the methods variations of the methods and other operations described herein.

Various embodiments of the present invention can include a token based access management system having a processor memory database workflow engine communications module and other modules components and or tools. In some embodiments the database can have a plurality of end user data stored thereon. The workflow engine can be configured to receive an event e.g. a request from one of the end users to resolve a problem or complaint and generate a workflow specific token to temporarily grant access to a portion of the data in order to respond to the event. The communications module can be configured to associate the workflow specific token with a user e.g. an employee of a company . The user can then use a set of tools configured to access the workflow specific token verify that the user should be granted access to the portion of the data and allow the user to access the portion of the data. In some cases the set of tools may have additional tools constraints restricting access to the portion of the data even further.

While multiple embodiments are disclosed still other embodiments of the present invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description which shows and describes illustrative embodiments of the invention. As will be realized the invention is capable of modifications in various aspects all without departing from the scope of the present invention. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not restrictive.

The drawings have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements in the figures may be expanded or reduced to help improve the understanding of the embodiments of the present invention. Similarly some components and or operations may be separated into different blocks or combined into a single block for the purposes of discussion of some of the embodiments of the present invention. Moreover while the invention is amenable to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments have been shown by way of example in the drawings and are described in detail below. The intention however is not to limit the invention to the particular embodiments described. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

Various embodiments of the present invention generally relate to information privacy. More specifically various embodiments of the present invention relate systems and methods for providing token based access control to various portions of information action logs end user information and or other data sets. Traditionally companies that have stored end user data have used systems that allow employees unrestricted access to all or at least large portions of the end user data in order to resolve user issues. Moreover these traditional tools typically do not provide any restrictions on how the data can be used once access has been granted to the tool.

In contrast various embodiments of the present invention allow for the dynamic allocation of temporary access to selected portions of end user data company data and or analytics generated by the company based on a need of the employee to perform job duties. In some embodiments unique tokens e.g. system objects encapsulating security information and or descriptors can be issued to each employee. These tokens can include default tokens that restrict certain access e.g. access to data relating to other employees or workflow tokens that temporarily grant specific access to specific portions of the data subject to the default token restrictions.

For example in context of a social networking company an end user may request a resolution to a problem such as an inappropriate post that violates the policies of the social network. In order for an employee to resolve the problem they may need temporarily granted access to the post. This event i.e. the end user request triggers a set of workflow tokens being generated that provide an employee access to the post along with other data in order to determine if the post actually was inappropriate and if other violations have occurred. After a period of time e.g. twelve or twenty four hours or upon completion of the task the employee s access to the data can be removed.

While for convenience embodiments of the present invention are described with reference to employee access to selected portions of end user data company data and or analytics embodiments of the present invention are equally applicable to various other applications. For example these techniques are equally applicable to an end user system to allow end users to selectively allow other end users temporary access to portions of data. In addition the techniques introduced here can be embodied as special purpose hardware e.g. circuitry as programmable circuitry appropriately programmed with software and or firmware or as a combination of special purpose and programmable circuitry. Hence embodiments may include a machine readable medium having stored thereon instructions which may be used to program a computer or other electronic devices to perform a process. The machine readable medium may include but is not limited to floppy diskettes optical disks compact disc read only memories CD ROMs magneto optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs erasable programmable read only memories EPROMs electrically erasable programmable read only memories EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memory or other type of media machine readable medium suitable for storing electronic instructions.

Brief definitions of terms abbreviations and phrases used throughout this application are given below.

The terms connected or coupled and related terms are used in an operational sense and are not necessarily limited to a direct physical connection or coupling. Thus for example two devices may be coupled directly or via one or more intermediary channels or devices. As another example devices may be coupled in such a way that information can be passed there between while not sharing any physical connection with one another. Based on the disclosure provided herein one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate a variety of ways in which connection or coupling exists in accordance with the aforementioned definition.

The phrases in some embodiments according to various embodiments in the embodiments shown in other embodiments and the like generally mean the particular feature structure or characteristic following the phrase is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention and may be included in more than one embodiment of the present invention. In addition such phrases do not necessarily refer to the same embodiments or to different embodiments.

If the specification states a component or feature may can could or might be included or have a characteristic that particular component or feature is not required to be included or have the characteristic.

The term module refers broadly to software hardware or firmware or any combination thereof components. Modules are typically functional components that can generate useful data or other output using specified input s . A module may or may not be self contained. An application program also called an application may include one or more modules or a module can include one or more application programs.

User device can be any computing device capable of receiving user input as well as transmitting and or receiving data via the network . In one embodiment user device is a conventional computer system such as a desktop or laptop computer . In another embodiment user device may be mobile device having computer functionality such as a personal digital assistant PDA mobile telephone smart phone or similar device. User device is configured to communicate with access management system and or the financial account provider via the network . In one embodiment user device executes an application allowing a user of user device to interact with the access management system . For example user device can execute a browser application to enable interaction between the user device and access management system via the network . In another embodiment user device interacts with access management system through an application programming interface API that runs on the native operating system of the user device such as IOS or ANDROID .

User devices can be configured to communicate via the network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and wireless communication systems. In one embodiment network uses standard communications technologies and or protocols. Thus network may include links using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX 3G 4G CDMA digital subscriber line DSL etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on network may include multiprotocol label switching MPLS transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP User Datagram Protocol UDP hypertext transport protocol HTTP simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and file transfer protocol FTP . Data exchanged over network may be represented using technologies and or formats including hypertext markup language HTML or extensible markup language XML . In addition all or some of links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS and Internet Protocol security IPsec .

Memory can be any device mechanism or populated data structure used for storing information. In accordance with some embodiments of the present invention memory can encompass any type of but is not limited to volatile memory nonvolatile memory and dynamic memory. For example memory can be random access memory memory storage devices optical memory devices magnetic media floppy disks magnetic tapes hard drives SIMMs SDRAM DIMMs RDRAM DDR RAM SODIMMS erasable programmable read only memories EPROMs electrically erasable programmable read only memories EEPROMs compact disks DVDs and or the like. In accordance with some embodiments memory may include one or more disk drives flash drives one or more databases one or more tables one or more files local cache memories processor cache memories relational databases flat databases and or the like. In addition those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate many additional devices and techniques for storing information which can be used as memory .

Memory may be used to store instructions for running one or more applications or modules on processor s . For example memory could be used in one or more embodiments to house all or some of the instructions needed to execute the functionality of workflow engine token generator encryption decryption module reassignment module permission evaluation module priority module recommendation module and communications module .

In some embodiments workflow engine can be configured to receive an event e.g. request from an end user and generate a workflow associated with the event. The workflow can include one or more specific tasks along with deadlines for completion. In addition to the workflow workflow engine can use token generator to generate one or more workflow specific tokens to temporarily grant a user access to a portion of the data in order to respond to the event based on the created workflow. A workflow management tool can also be a part of or coupled to workflow engine in some embodiments. The workflow management tool can monitor the status of workflow and can receive requests from the user to extend end token availability.

Token generator can generate default tokens in addition to the workflow specific tokens requested by workflow engine . Default tokens can include a set of default permissions and or restrictions. These default tokens can be created and assigned to individual users based on company policies job titles job duties and or any other criteria. The tokens can be associated with each user s profile. In some embodiments the tokens may be nontransferable and identify the assigned user user groups that the assigned user belongs to along with other information. This additional information can provide an additional security measure to prevent the transfer of tokens from one employee to another.

In some embodiments portions of the data can include unique data identifiers which can be specified within the tokens. In other cases metadata or other data associations e.g. all users in China can be specified within the token in order to identify portions of data to which a rule will apply. This information can be used in verifying and determining which portions of the data the user can access.

In some embodiments the tokens generated by token generator are permission objects that match identifiers according to some pre configured matching rule e.g. a Boolean matching rule or algorithm that results in a true false output indicating the decision . This matching rule can then be used to either allow or deny access to data in a granular fashion. In addition some embodiments provide for different types of tokens. For example a social networking company may issue an identification permission token a friend permission token and an employee token. The identification permission token may match only a single ID. The friend permission token may match a user ID and all the friends of that user ID. The employee token matches any employee of the company. By combining the different types of tokens different policies can be enforced. For example Employee A can access his own data but cannot access data of other employees or any of his friends. Then if A starts working on an issue reported by user B we could allow A to access data from B and all of B s Friends but not any arbitrary user.

In some embodiments token generator can use encryption decryption module to assign a cryptographic message authentication code to the tokens. The system can then authenticate the cryptographic message authentication code before allowing the user to access any portion of the data. In many embodiments the tokens will also include an expiration indicator. The expiration indicator can identify a time of expiration e.g. day and time an event triggered expiration e.g. completion of task a maximum amount of time to access the data e.g. one hour of access time and or other expiration indicators or triggers.

Reassignment module can be configured to receive a request from the user to reassign a portion of the workflow and or event to a second user. In some embodiments the request from the user can be to reassign the portion of the workflow and or event to a different team within the company or into a different workflow processor. For example suppose an event requesting removal of an inappropriate post from a social networking site is received. The workflow generator can assign a first user to resolve the issue. However upon attempting to resolve the issue the user realizes that the request should be reassigned to a different team or individual within the company the first user can submit a request to that end.

Permission evaluation module can be configured to receive and evaluate a request from the user to access an additional portion of the data in order to respond to the event or workflow assignment. In some cases upon trying to respond to the event a user may realize that access to additional information is needed. This request can be submitted to permission evaluation module . Various embodiments generate one or more graphical user interface screens in response to the users request. These screens allow the user to provide more information regarding the request.

Depending on the nature of the request permission may be granted or escalated for review by a manager or other decision maker. In one embodiment permission evaluation module may suggest one or more individuals to which the event or workflow portion can be reassigned. The reassignment may happen automatically or only upon request from the user.

Priority module can be configured to resolve access permissions based on multiple specific tokens assigned to the user. For example in some situations the rules may conflict which one token granting access while another token would restrict access to a certain data portion. For example in some embodiments the tokens may have an embedded priority level which can be used by priority module to resolve conflicts. In at least one embodiment additional conflict resolution policies and or rules for resolving the conflicts may be used. Recommendation module monitors conflicts and requests for additional permissions from employees. Recommendation module analyzes the conflicts and requests for additional permissions and provides recommendations for which permissions and data access should be associated with workflow events.

Communications module in one or more embodiments of the present invention can be used to associate the workflow specific tokens and default tokens with a user. For example this may be done by sending a message to a token assignment database to record which tokens have been assigned to an individual. As another example communications module may associate the tokens with the user s profile. In some embodiments communications module may translate messages between different formats and or manage communications between various components.

Specific token assignment operation assigns workflow specific tokens to individual users. These workflow specific tokens can temporarily grant access to a partition or slice of a data set. For example in the context of a social networking site an end user may request resolution to a problem. Depending on the nature of the problem an employee of the social networking site may need to be granted internal access to the data of the end user and the friends of the end user in order to be able to resolve the problem. In some embodiments the default and or workflow specific tokens can be assigned a priority level and thus some tokens may override any permission granted by other tokens. In various embodiments the priority levels may be included within the token. In other embodiments the priority levels may be stored separately e.g. within a token priority database .

Once a user has been assigned to handle an event e.g. a request from an end user to resolve a problem the user can submit a request to access data. Once the access management system receives a request to access a portion of the data at receiving operation verification operation uses the tokens to verify if access to the data is allowed. For example verification operation can determine and verify if the tokens have expired if the correct user is using the tokens if the tokens have not been tampered with e.g. using the cryptographic MAC etc.

Once the rules have been identified compliance operation verifies that the rules for accessing the data are satisfied. If the rules are satisfied the compliance operation branches to access operation where access to the data is granted. If compliance operation determines that the rules are not satisfied then the operation branches to denial operation . In some embodiments access operation and denial operation may be applied to individual portions of the data within any given request. As such some of the data being request may be accessed while other portions of the data may not be accessed. In other embodiments access operation and denial operation may be applied to the entire request. In those cases if a user is not authorized to access any portion of the data being requested then the entire request is denied.

Assignment operation then generates and assigns the tokens to one or more employees. In some cases an employee may not be able to complete the portion of the workflow assigned to them. Various embodiments of the present invention allow for employees to send a request for their task to be reassigned. Determination operation determines if the workflow event action should be passed to another employee or added to a workflow queue. When determination operation determines that a pass should be generated operation branches to deactivation operation which deactivates the tokens assigned to the individual for the workflow event action being passed to another employee. Once the tokens have been deactivated generation operation generates new tokens for the next employee assigned to the workflow event action.

When determination operation determines that the workflow event action should not be passed operation branches to receiving operation where a request to access the data is received. Once the request has been received verification operation verifies that the tokens provide sufficient privileges to access the data. In some cases where multiple tokens have been generated with conflicting instructions verification operation may use priority module to determine which permissions and restrictions have a higher priority level. Once the task has been completed and or a preset expiration period has been reached deactivation deactivates the tokens.

As mentioned above embodiments of the present invention can be utilized within a social networking system. Typically a social networking system includes one or more computing devices storing user profiles associated with users and or other objects as well as connections between users and other users and or objects. In use users join the social networking system and then add connections to other users or objects of the social networking system to which they desire to be connected. The users may be individuals or entities such as businesses organizations universities manufacturers. The social networking system allows its users to interact with each other as well as with other objects maintained by the social networking system. In some embodiments the social networking system allows users to interact with third party websites and financial account providers.

Based on stored data about users objects and connections between users and or objects the social networking system can generate and maintain a social graph comprising a plurality of nodes interconnected by a plurality of edges. Each node in the social graph represents an object or user that can act on another node and or that can be acted on by another node. An edge between two nodes in the social graph represents a particular kind of connection between the two nodes which may result from an action that was performed by one of the nodes on the other node. For example when a user identifies an additional user as a friend an edge in the social graph is generated connecting a node representing the first user and an additional node representing the additional user. The generated edge has a connection type indicating that the users are friends. As various nodes interact with each other the social networking system can modify edges connecting the various nodes to reflect the interactions.

API request server allows other systems user devices or tools to access information from social networking system by calling APIs. The information provided by the social network may include user profile information or the connection information of users as determined by their individual privacy settings. For example a system user device or tools interested in accessing data connections within a social networking system may send an API request to social networking system via a network. The API request is received at social networking system by API request server . API request server processes the request by submitting the access request to access management system where access is determined and any data is communicated back to the requesting system user device or tools via a network.

Web server links social networking system via a network to one or more client devices the web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as Java Flash XML and so forth. The web server may communicate with the message server that provides the functionality of receiving and routing messages between social networking system and client devices. The messages processed by message server can be instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS short message service messages or any other suitable messaging technique. In some embodiments a message sent by a user to another can be viewed by other users of social networking system for example by the connections of the user receiving the message. An example of a type of message that can be viewed by other users of the social networking system besides the recipient of the message is a wall post. In some embodiments a user can send a private message to another user that can only be retrieved by the other user.

Each user of the social networking system is associated with a user profile which is stored in user profile store . A user profile includes declarative information about the user that was explicitly shared by the user and may also include profile information inferred by social networking system . In one embodiment a user profile includes multiple data fields each data field describing one or more attributes of the corresponding user of social networking system . The user profile information stored in user profile store describes the users of social networking system including biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history gender hobbies or preferences location and the like. A user profile may also store other information provided by the user for example images or videos. In certain embodiments images of users may be tagged with identification information of users of social networking system displayed in an image. A user profile in user profile store may also maintain references to actions by the corresponding user performed on content items in content store and stored in the edge store .

A user profile may be associated with one or more financial accounts allowing the user profile to include data retrieved from or derived from a financial account. A user may specify one or more privacy settings which are stored in the user profile that limit information from a financial account that social networking system is permitted to access. For example a privacy setting limits social networking system to accessing the transaction history of the financial account and not the current account balance. As another example a privacy setting limits social networking system to a subset of the transaction history of the financial account allowing social networking system to access transactions within a specified time range transactions involving less than a threshold transaction amount transactions associated with specified vendor identifiers transactions associated with vendor identifiers other than specified vendor identifiers or any suitable criteria limiting information from a financial account identified by a user that is accessible by social networking system . In one embodiment information from the financial account is stored in user profile store . In other embodiments it may be stored in financial account store .

Action logger receives communications about user actions on and or off social networking system populating action log with information about user actions. Such actions may include for example adding a connection to another user sending a message to another user uploading an image reading a message from another user viewing content associated with another user attending an event posted by another user among others. In some embodiments action logger receives subject to one or more privacy settings transaction information from a financial account associated with a user and identifies user actions from the transaction information. For example action logger retrieves vendor identifiers from the financial account s transaction history and identifies an object such as a page in social networking system associated with the vendor identifier. This allows action logger to identify a user s purchases of products or services that are associated with a page or another object in content store . In addition a number of actions described in connection with other objects are directed at particular users so these actions are associated with those users as well. These actions are stored in action log .

Action log may be used by social networking system to track user actions on social networking system as well as external websites that communicate information to social networking system . Users may interact with various objects on social networking system including commenting on posts sharing links and checking in to physical locations via a mobile device accessing content items in a sequence or other interactions. Information describing these actions is stored in action log . Additional examples of interactions with objects on social networking system included in action log include commenting on a photo album communications between users becoming a fan of a musician adding an event to a calendar joining a group becoming a fan of a brand page creating an event authorizing an application using an application and engaging in a transaction. Additionally action log records a user s interactions with advertisements on social networking system as well as other applications operating on social networking system . In some embodiments data from action log is used to infer interests or preferences of the user augmenting the interests included in the user profile and allowing a more complete understanding of user preferences.

Action log may also store user actions taken on external websites and or determined from a financial account associated with the user. For example an e commerce website that primarily sells sporting equipment at bargain prices may recognize a user of social networking system through social plug ins that enable the e commerce website to identify the user of social networking system . Because users of social networking system are uniquely identifiable e commerce websites such as this sporting equipment retailer may use the information about these users as they visit their websites. Action log records data about these users including webpage viewing histories advertisements that were engaged purchases made and other patterns from shopping and buying. Actions identified by action logger from the transaction history of a financial account associated with the user allow action log to record further information about additional types of user actions.

In some embodiments social networking system further stores data describing one or more connections between different users in the connection store . The data describing one or more connections can include a list of connections a date each connection i.e. friendship was made etc. The connections may be further defined by users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example the connections allow users to generate relationships with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. In one embodiment the connection specifies a connection type based on the type of relationship. Examples of the type of relationship include family friend colleague etc. Users may select from predefined types of connections or define their own connection types as needed. Some or all of this information may also be stored as edge objects in edge store .

Content store stores content items associated with a user profile such as images videos or audio files. Content items from content store may be displayed when a user profile is viewed or when other content associated with the user profile is viewed. For example displayed content items may show images or video associated with a user profile or show text describing a user s status. Additionally other content items may facilitate user engagement by encouraging a user to expand his connections to other users to invite new users to the system or to increase interaction with the social network system by displaying content related to users objects activities or functionalities of social networking system . Examples of social networking content items include suggested connections or suggestions to perform other actions media provided to or maintained by social networking system e.g. pictures or videos status messages or links posted by users to the social networking system events groups pages e.g. representing an organization or commercial entity and any other content provided by or accessible via the social networking system.

Content store also includes one or more pages associated with entities having user profiles in user profile store . An entity is a non individual user of social networking system such as a business a vendor an organization or a university. A page includes content associated with an entity and instructions for presenting the content to a social networking system user. For example a page identifies content associated with the entity s user profile as well as information describing how to present the content to users viewing the brand page. Vendors may be associated with pages in content store allowing social networking system users to more easily interact with the vendor via social networking system . A vendor identifier is associated with a vendor s page allowing social networking system to identify the vendor and or to retrieve additional information about the vendor from user profile store action log or from any other suitable source using the vendor identifier. In some embodiments the content store may also store one or more targeting criteria associated with stored objects and identifying one or more characteristics of a user to which the object is eligible to be presented.

In one embodiment edge store stores the information describing connections between users and other objects on social networking system in edge objects. Some edges may be defined by users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example users may generate edges with other users that parallel the users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Other edges are generated when users interact with objects in social networking system such as expressing interest in a page on the social networking system sharing a link with other users of the social networking system and commenting on posts made by other users of the social networking system. Edge store stores edge objects that include information about the edge such as affinity scores for objects interests and other users. Affinity scores may be computed by social networking system over time to approximate a user s affinity for an object interest and other users in social networking system based on the actions performed by the user. Multiple interactions between a user and a specific object may be stored in one edge object in edge store in one embodiment. In some embodiments connections between users may be stored in user profile store or user profile store may access edge store to determine connections between users.

Embodiments of the present invention include various steps and operations which have been described above. A variety of these steps and operations may be performed by hardware components or may be embodied in machine executable instructions which may be used to cause a general purpose or special purpose processor programmed with the instructions to perform the steps. Alternatively the steps may be performed by a combination of hardware software and or firmware. As such is an example of a computer system with which embodiments of the present invention may be utilized. According to the present example the computer system includes a bus at least one processor at least one communication port a main memory a removable storage media a read only memory and a mass storage .

Processor s can be any known processor such as but not limited to an Intel Itanium or Itanium 2 processor s AMD Opteron or Athlon MP processor s or Motorola lines of processors. Communication port s can be any of an RS 232 port for use with a modem based dialup connection a 10 100 Ethernet port or a Gigabit port using copper or fiber. Communication port s may be chosen depending on a network such as a Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN or any network to which the computer system connects.

Main memory can be Random Access Memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device s commonly known in the art. Read only memory can be any static storage device s such as Programmable Read Only Memory PROM chips for storing static information such as instructions for processor .

Mass storage can be used to store information and instructions. For example hard disks such as the Adaptec family of SCSI drives an optical disc an array of disks such as RAID such as the Adaptec family of RAID drives or any other mass storage devices may be used.

Bus communicatively couples processor s with the other memory storage and communication blocks. Bus can be a PCI PCI X or SCSI based system bus depending on the storage devices used.

Removable storage media can be any kind of external hard drives floppy drives IOMEGA Zip Drives Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM Compact Disc Re Writable CD RW and or Digital Video Disk Read Only Memory DVD ROM .

The components described above are meant to exemplify some types of possibilities. In no way should the aforementioned examples limit the scope of the invention as they are only exemplary embodiments.

In conclusion the present invention provides novel systems methods and arrangements for creating tokens that allow for customized access to portions of data. While detailed descriptions of one or more embodiments of the invention have been given above various alternatives modifications and equivalents will be apparent to those skilled in the art without varying from the spirit of the invention. For example while the embodiments described above refer to particular features the scope of this invention also includes embodiments having different combinations of features and embodiments that do not include all of the described features. Accordingly the scope of the present invention is intended to embrace all such alternatives modifications and variations that fall within the scope of the claims together with all equivalents thereof. Therefore the above description should not be taken as limiting the scope of the invention which is defined by the appended claims.

