---

title: Congestion control apparatus and congestion control method
abstract: In order to properly and equally impose a communication restriction in the case where congestion may occur due to a disaster or the like, a congestion control apparatus () includes: collecting means () for collecting mobile station information on a plurality of mobile stations camping on a radio base station to be a target of a communication restriction; grouping means () for dividing, based on the mobile station information, the plurality of mobile stations into a plurality of groups each serving as a unit of the communication restriction, by using a grouping method according to which an imbalance among the groups becomes equal to or less than a predetermined reference; and transmission means () for transmitting information specifying the grouping method. Moreover, the transmission means () transmits, to the mobile station, communication restriction information indicative of restriction contents such that the grouping method can be specified. The restriction contents are displayed on a screen of the mobile station, and a transmission restriction, a talk time restriction or the like is imposed in accordance therewith.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09510231&OS=09510231&RS=09510231
owner: NEC Corporation
number: 09510231
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20120608
---
The present invention relates to a congestion control apparatus a congestion control method and a congestion control system. In particular the present invention relates to a congestion control apparatus a congestion control method and a congestion control system with which congestion control is exerted while maintaining equality among mobile stations on which a communication restriction is imposed.

In general with a mobile communication system a cell size determination or a cell arrangement is properly performed taking into consideration of the expected number of mobile stations located in the coverage of each cell or the expected communication data quantity. In this manner the operator structures the system in order to provide the communication service of certain quality and therefore the users of the mobile terminals can receive the communication service without being bothered by any limitation placed on time and place.

However in some cases e.g. when many people gather at a specific location of any event or when a natural disaster occurs an enormous amount of access requests may be made to a specific base station or a specific switching center whereby congestion may occur.

As a method for preventing a reduction in the performance of the system function upon the occurrence of congestion Patent Literature 1 discloses a congestion control method. According to this method mobile terminals located in the service area of a base station are managed as a group. When congestion occurs restriction information data is transmitted to the mobile terminals belonging to a group being the target of a restriction. Then each mobile terminal receiving the restriction information data extracts the restriction start time and the restriction removal time of the group to which the mobile terminal itself belongs and displays the data on a display unit such as liquid. Accordingly each user can tell that the talk and communication functions of his her mobile terminal are in the operation stopped state and when the functions become available. Further execution of a communication restriction can prevent the congestion state from being continued.

Further Patent Literature 2 discloses a method for restricting access requests from mobile stations when lines cannot be secured due to an enormous amount of access requests triggered by disaster situations or the like. According to the access restriction method each base station transmits transmission restriction information via a broadcast channel. When mobile stations receive the transmission restriction information sent via the broadcast channel they each determine whether or not the access restriction is imposed on the self station. When the access restriction is imposed on the self station transmission of the self station is prohibited except for the case where a call is received or in the case of emergency communication. What is further included is an output function for broadcasting the users about the restriction and the removal thereof. Accordingly even in disaster situations it becomes possible to prevent access requests from temporarily occupying the wireless lines.

In the above described Patent Literatures 1 and 2 by preliminarily dividing the mobile terminals mobile stations into a plurality of groups and notifying the mobile stations about the group number to be subjected to a communication restriction the communication of the mobile stations belonging to the group specified by the number is restricted. Thus congestion is avoided.

Here the mobile stations are divided into groups according to a predetermined reference. However depending on the situation of the mobile stations located in the service area of a base station an imbalance toward a particular group may be created.

For example in the case where a hundred mobile stations camp on a base station when these mobile stations are divided into five groups of A to E by the aforementioned fixed grouping method the mobile stations may not be equally divided into the groups i.e. twenty mobile stations per group. Instead thirty mobile stations may belong to group A and ten mobile stations may belong to group E. In this case since there is a great imbalance among the groups a proper restriction cannot be imposed even when the restriction is imposed on a group by group basis. Thus the congestion disadvantageously remains or a restriction cannot be equally imposed.

The present invention has been made taking into consideration of the foregoing problems and an object thereof is to provide a congestion control apparatus and a congestion control method that make it possible to properly and equally impose a communication restriction in the case where congestion may occur such as in disaster situations.

A congestion control apparatus according to a first exemplary aspect of the present invention includes collecting means for collecting mobile station information on a plurality of mobile stations camping on a radio base station to be a target of a communication restriction grouping means for dividing based on the mobile station information the plurality of mobile stations into a plurality of groups each serving as a unit of the communication restriction by using a grouping method according to which an imbalance among the groups becomes equal to or less than a predetermined reference and transmission means for transmitting information specifying the grouping method.

Further a congestion control method according to a second exemplary aspect of the present invention includes collecting mobile station information on a plurality of mobile stations camping a radio base station to be a target of a communication restriction dividing based on the mobile station information the plurality of mobile stations into a plurality of groups by using a grouping method according to which an imbalance among the groups becomes equal to or less than a predetermined reference and transmitting information specifying the grouping method.

According to the present invention a communication restriction can be imposed in a proper and equal manner in the case where congestion may occur such as in disaster situations.

A mobile communication system according to a first exemplary embodiment is characterized in that a congestion control apparatus is disposed in order to avoid an occurrence of congestion. The congestion control apparatus may be installed in each radio base station or in the switching center. Further the congestion control apparatus may be disposed on the network side as an independent apparatus. In the following with reference to the drawings a description will be given of exemplary embodiments of the present invention.

The mobile station information collecting unit collects mobile station information on a plurality of mobile stations camping on a radio base station to be the target of a communication restriction. Here though the actual target of the communication restriction such as a transmission restriction is mobile stations the restriction is imposed all at once on the mobile stations camping on a certain radio base station where congestion is occurring. Accordingly such a radio base station becomes the target of the communication restriction. Further when congestion is occurring at a switching center in some cases the communication restriction is performed on a switching center by switching center basis. In such cases also since the actual target of the communication restriction is the mobile stations camping on the radio base stations governed by the switching center such radio base stations governed by the switching center become the target of the communication restriction.

Note that the mobile station information collecting unit may collect the telephone number of each mobile station as the mobile station information or may collect an identifier that uniquely identifies each mobile station such as a terminal serial number or a user ID as the mobile station information. Specifically the mobile station information collecting unit accesses a database where such pieces of information are collectively stored to collect the required mobile station information.

The grouping unit divides the plurality of mobile stations into a plurality of groups each forming the unit for a communication restriction based on the mobile station information collected by the mobile station information collecting unit and by using a grouping method a method for grouping mobile stations with which an imbalance among the groups becomes equal to or less than a predetermined reference.

For example it is assumed that there are five types of methods A to E as grouping methods for dividing mobile stations into a plurality of groups. Here it is assumed that the grouping unit has grouped a plurality of mobile stations camping on a radio base station being the target of a communication restriction according to the grouping method A and that an imbalance is created among the groups. Here when the imbalance is greater than a predetermined reference it lacks equality when a communication restriction is imposed on a group by group basis and congestion may not be solved or avoided. In such a case the grouping unit again performs the grouping using any one of the other grouping methods B to E and employs the grouping method according to which an imbalance among the group becomes equal to or less than a predetermined reference.

For example in the case where the number of mobile stations is employed as the determination reference for grouping and grouping is performed such that no imbalance is created among the groups as to the number of their respective mobile stations the grouping unit may search for a grouping method according to which the deviation in the number of mobile stations becomes equal to or less than a predetermined value for example 10 to employ the searched grouping method.

The transmission unit transmits the information specifying the grouping method used by the grouping unit . For example out of the grouping methods A to E when grouping is performed by the grouping unit using the grouping method B the transmission unit may transmit information indicative of B as the information specifying the grouping method. Further the transmission unit may transmit as the information specifying the grouping method information specifying the mobile stations belonging to their respective groups. The final transmission destination of the information specifying the grouping method is the mobile stations to be subjected to the communication restriction.

As described above the congestion control apparatus according to the first exemplary embodiment once collects information on the mobile stations to be subjected to a communication restriction before imposing the communication restriction. Then the congestion control apparatus performs grouping while avoiding an imbalance among the groups and thereafter imposes the communication restriction. Accordingly it becomes possible to remove any inequality such as the case where a mobile station is accidentally classified into a group to which a great many mobile stations belongs and consequently cannot be connected to the network because of transmission congestion despite the mobile station being in a transmittable period. Thus the congestion state can be solved or avoided in a proper and equal manner.

Further the grouping method performed by the grouping unit is not limited to the method described above. The grouping unit may perform grouping of mobile stations by allocating mobile stations to be the target of a communication restriction to each of the groups based on the mobile station information of the mobile station information collecting unit while avoiding any imbalance among the groups. The transmission unit transmits as the information specifying the grouping method information specifying the mobile stations belonging to their respective groups. Such a configuration may be employed.

For example as shown in when the grouping unit classifies mobile stations to be the target of a communication restriction into four groups i.e. groups W to Z based on the mobile station information such that an imbalance among the groups becomes equal to or less than a predetermined reference the transmission unit may transmit the information as in the table shown in as the information specifying the grouping method. That is in the case of the grouping unit performs grouping using a grouping method according to which the mobile stations whose last digit is 1 3 or 4 are allocated to the group W the mobile stations whose last digit is 2 or 8 are allocated to the group X the mobile stations whose last digit is 7 or 9 are allocated to the group Y and the mobile stations whose last digit is 0 5 or 6 are allocated to the group Z. Accordingly the transmission unit can transmit as the information specifying the grouping method the information indicative of the mobile stations whose last digit is 1 3 or 4 belong to the group W the mobile stations whose last digit is 2 or 8 belong to the group X the mobile stations whose last digit is 7 or 9 belong to the group Y and the mobile stations whose last digit is 0 5 or 6 belong to the group Z as in the table shown in .

Note that though the number of mobile stations has been described as an example of the determination reference for an imbalance in performing the grouping the present invention is not limited thereto. When a priority or importance is allocated for each mobile station grouping may be performed using a grouping method according to which no imbalance is created among the groups as to the number of mobile stations whose priority or importance is equal to or more than a predetermined reference. Further grouping may be performed using a grouping method according to which an imbalance among the groups becomes equal to or less than a predetermined reference as to the sum of priorities or degrees of importance of the mobile stations belonging to their respective groups.

For example a high priority is preliminarily allocated to the mobile station of a subscriber whose safety is especially concerned in disaster situations e.g. an elderly person and grouping is performed taking into consideration of the priority. Thus a further flexible and practical communication restriction can be imposed. Further it is also possible to classify the mobile station with a high priority into a special group and generate the communication restriction information while setting a less strict restriction to the special group as compared to the other groups.

Further those mobile stations associated with the police the fire department and any other emergency purposes may be preliminarily classified into a special group on which no restriction is imposed. Then the grouping may be performed as to the other general mobile stations before a communication restriction is imposed.

A mobile communication system according to a second exemplary embodiment is characterized in that a congestion control function that controls congestion is installed in each radio base station. In the following a description will be given with reference to the drawings.

Firstly a description will be given of the switching center . The switching center includes a control unit an IF unit and a location information accumulating unit .

The control unit controls the entire switching center. Specifically the control unit transmits the data which is received from the radio base stations via the IF unit to the core network side and transmits the data which is received from the core network side for mobile stations to the radio base stations governed by the switching center via the IF unit . Further when the control unit receives a location registering request from any mobile station the control unit performs a general location registering process and stores the location information of the mobile station in the location information accumulating unit . Further when the control unit receives a request to output mobile station information which will be described later from any radio base station the control unit accesses the location information accumulating unit and extracts corresponding mobile station information. Then the control unit transmits the extracted mobile station information to the radio base station .

The IF unit is a communication interface for communicating with radio base stations governed by the switching center.

The location information accumulating unit accumulates location information of the mobile stations in accordance with the location registering control of the control unit . In the location information the mobile stations and the radio base stations are stored as being associated with each other.

Next with reference to a description will be given of the radio base station . The radio base station includes an IF unit a wireless IF unit a communication control unit a storage unit and a congestion control unit .

The IF unit is a communication interface for communicating with the switching center governing the radio base station.

The wireless IF unit is a wireless communication interface for conducting wireless communication with the mobile stations camping on the base station.

The communication control unit controls communication between the switching center and the mobile stations . The communication control exerted by the communication control unit includes scheduling control i.e. allocation of radio resources to the mobile stations camping on the base station. When the communication control unit receives a communication restriction instruction from the congestion control unit the communication control unit starts a communication restriction when the communication control unit receives a communication restriction removing instruction the communication control unit ends the communication restriction.

Further the communication control unit includes a talk time measuring unit and a time point managing unit . The talk time measuring unit measures a talk time as being triggered by a mobile station whose communication is restricted starting a talk. Further the time point managing unit manages the current time point. The talk time measuring unit and the time point managing unit are used in the congestion control mode which will be described later. When the communication control unit receives an instruction from the congestion control unit to transit to the congestion control mode the communication control unit exerts communication control to restrict the talk time or talk time period of the mobile stations based on the communication restriction information stored in the storage unit .

For example the communication control unit receives a communication connection request from a mobile station camping on the base station and allows the mobile station to connect. When a talk is started thereby the communication control unit measures the talk time of the mobile station camping on the base station using the talk time measuring unit . When the measured talk time reaches the permitted talk time being preliminarily permitted for the mobile station the communication control unit exerts control to forcibly disconnect the talk of the mobile station to secure the radio resource such that the radio resource can be allocated to other mobile stations. Further when a mobile station belonging to a group in the talk permitted state is in a talking mode the communication control unit acquires the current time point from the time point managing unit . When it is past a transmittable period set in the communication control information the communication control unit exerts control to forcibly disconnect the talk to secure the radio resource such the radio resource can be allocated to the next group.

The storage unit stores the communication restriction information output from the congestion control unit . The communication restriction information is referred to by the communication control unit for communication control in the congestion control mode.

The congestion control unit exerts control for solving the congestion state. The congestion control unit specifically includes a congestion detecting unit a mobile station information collecting unit and a communication restriction information generating unit .

The congestion detecting unit detects that congestion is occurring at its own base station. For example the congestion detecting unit continuously monitors communication carried out by the communication control unit and determines whether or not the flowing data quantity exceeds a predetermined reference value. As a result of the determination the congestion detecting unit detects that congestion is occurring when the data quantity exceeds a predetermined reference value. The congestion detecting unit notifies the mobile station information collecting unit about the occurrence of congestion.

Further when the congestion detecting unit detects that congestion is solved it notifies about the congestion being solved. The congestion detecting unit monitors the traffic of the communication control unit and when it is determined that the congestion is solved the congestion detecting unit issues a communication restriction removing instruction to the communication control unit .

The mobile station information collecting unit collects the mobile station information on a plurality of mobile stations camping on a radio base station to be the target of a communication restriction. Here since congestion is occurring at the self base station the self base station becomes the radio base station to be the target of a communication restriction and therefore the communication restriction is imposed on the mobile stations camping on the self base station. Accordingly the mobile station information collecting unit collects mobile station information on the mobile stations camping on the self base station.

Specifically the mobile station information collecting unit issues an output request for the mobile station information on the plurality of mobile stations camping on the self base station to the switching center via the communication control unit and the IF unit and receives the mobile station information from the switching center . The mobile station information collecting unit sends the collected mobile station information to the communication restriction information generating unit .

The communication restriction information generating unit generates communication restriction information for restricting communication of the mobile stations based on the mobile station information received from the mobile station information collecting unit . The communication restriction information generating unit is specifically configured by a grouping unit that performs grouping of mobile stations to be subjected to a communication restriction and a restriction plan list determining unit .

When the grouping unit receives the mobile station information the grouping unit classifies the plurality of mobile stations into a plurality of groups based on the mobile station information and by using a grouping method according to which an imbalance among the groups becomes equal to or less than a predetermined reference.

The grouping unit sets the grouping method 1 out of the plurality of preliminarily registered grouping methods S . Next the grouping unit performs grouping of the mobile stations to be subjected to the communication restriction based on the mobile station information received from the mobile station information collecting unit and by using the grouping method set in S S .

Next the grouping unit calculates an imbalance among the groups and determines whether or not the imbalance is equal to or less than a first reference S . Here when the first reference is satisfied as a result of the determination in S the grouping unit determines that the communication restriction is to be imposed with the grouping method and notifies the restriction plan list determining unit at the following stage about information specifying the grouping method. On the other hand as a result of the determination in S when the imbalance exceeds the first reference the control proceeds to next S.

The grouping unit determines whether or not grouping has been performed with all the grouping methods S . Specifically the grouping unit determines whether or not the grouping method K performed in S is the grouping method N being the last one of the registered grouping methods. When K N as a result of the determination in S the grouping unit increments K by one S . Then the control returns to SS and again grouping is performed according to the next grouping method.

On the other hand when K N in S it means that the imbalance among the groups did not satisfy the first reference according to all the grouping methods. Accordingly the grouping unit selects the grouping method n providing the smallest imbalance out of the grouping methods 1 to N S . That is employing the provision of the smallest imbalance among the groups among the grouping methods 1 to N as the second reference the grouping unit determines to impose a communication restriction with the grouping method providing the smallest imbalance and notifies the restriction plan list determining unit at the following stage about information specifying the grouping method.

Note that the algorithm described above is merely an example and the grouping unit may perform grouping according to any other algorithm. For example according to the algorithm described above once a predetermined reference is satisfied the grouping method used at that time is determined as the grouping method with which a communication restriction is imposed. However the present invention is not limited thereto. For example as shown in it is also possible to determine after grouping is performed according to all the registered grouping methods the grouping method providing the smallest imbalance as the grouping method with which a communication restriction is imposed.

In the algorithm shown in since S and S are respectively identical to S and S in the description thereof is omitted. The grouping unit obtains an imbalance among the groups created according to the grouping method K in S and temporarily stores the imbalance S .

Next the grouping unit determines whether or not K N S . Here N is the last grouping method. When K N as a result of the determination in S K is incremented by one and the control returns to S S . On the other hand when K N it means that all the preliminarily registered grouping methods have been tried and an imbalance is calculated for each method and therefore control proceeds to the next S. In S the grouping unit compares the grouping methods against one another as to the imbalance among the groups temporarily stored in S. Then the grouping unit selects and employs the grouping method providing the smallest imbalance S .

The grouping unit may determine the grouping method using such an algorithm. In the case where such an algorithm is used also the grouping unit divides a plurality of mobile stations into a plurality of groups based on which a communication restriction is imposed such that an imbalance among the groups becomes the smallest i.e. such that an imbalance among the groups becomes equal to or less than a predetermined reference among a plurality of preliminarily registered grouping methods.

The restriction plan list determining unit receives from the grouping unit the information specifying the grouping method having used for grouping and determines the contents of the restriction plan list.

Here the restriction plan list refers to the communication restriction information in which the communication restriction contents are listed. shows one example of the restriction plan list. In the restriction plan list shown in under each of group numbers indicative of the groups created by the grouping unit information for specifying mobile stations belonging to such groups is noted. Thus the information specifying the grouping method is contained. The restriction plan list further contains a transmittable period and a talk time upper limit for each group as being associated with the group number. Note that the contents of the restriction plan list are not limited thereto. It is also possible that only a transmission restriction is imposed and a notice as to the period of the transmission restriction is issued or only a talk time restriction is imposed and a notice as to the permitted talk time is issued. Further it is also possible that only mail transmission is permitted. Alternatively the data quantity of each mail massage or the frequency of mail transmission may be limited.

The restriction plan list determining unit generates the restriction plan list determined in the foregoing manner as the communication restriction information and stores the same in the storage unit . Further the restriction plan list determining unit instructs the communication control unit to start the communication control. Further the restriction plan list determining unit transmits the communication restriction information to the mobile stations camping on the self station via the communication control unit and the wireless IF unit .

Next a description will be given of the configuration of the mobile station . The mobile station includes a wireless IF unit a control unit a storage unit an input unit and a display unit .

The wireless IF unit is a wireless communication interface for conducting wireless communication with the radio base station . The wireless IF unit receives the communication restriction information transmitted from the radio base station and sends the communication restriction information to the control unit .

The control unit exerts a variety of control for conducting wireless communication with the radio base station . For example the control unit exerts control such that a predetermined location registering process is performed and the location information of the self station is stored in the location information accumulating unit in the switching center .

Further when the control unit receives the communication restriction information transmitted from the radio base station via the wireless IF unit the control unit stores the communication restriction information in the storage unit and exerts a variety of control in accordance with the contents shown by the communication restriction information. Specifically the control unit exerts control for causing the display unit to display the communication restriction contents. Further when the control unit receives a transmission instruction from the user via the input unit the control unit queries the time point managing unit which is not shown to acquire the current time point. Then the control unit refers to the communication restriction information stored in the storage unit to determine whether or not the current time period is the transmittable period of the self station. As a result of the determination when the current time period is the period during which the self station is not permitted to perform transmission the control unit exerts control to reject the transmission instruction and does not perform a transmission process.

The storage unit stores the communication restriction information transmitted from the control unit . The communication restriction information stored in the storage unit is referred to by the control unit as necessary. When the communication restriction is removed the stored communication restriction information is deleted as necessary under control of the control unit .

The input unit is configured by a touch keypad or a touch panel and accepts inputs such as a transmission request from the user of the terminal for starting a talk.

Following control of the control unit the display unit displays the contents of the communication restriction to thereby notify the user that a communication restriction is imposed. The display unit may be configured to display for example the contents shown in on the screen to thereby notify the user about what communication restriction is imposed and whether or not the self station can currently carry out transmission.

Next a description will be given of an operation of the mobile communication system according to this exemplary embodiment. is a sequence diagram showing the flow of the operation of the mobile communication system according to this exemplary embodiment.

Firstly a location registering process is performed between the mobile station and the switching center via the radio base station S . Note that since the location registering process is a known technique a description thereof is omitted. By the location registering process the location information of the mobile station is stored in the location information accumulating unit of the switching center S .

Thereafter when congestion is triggered by any disaster or event the congestion detecting unit monitoring the traffic of the radio base station detects the occurrence of congestion in the self station S . When the congestion detecting unit detects the occurrence of congestion the mobile station information collecting unit requests the switching center to transmit mobile station information of the mobile stations camping on the self station S . Note that in the example shown in the mobile station information collecting unit requests the mobile station number as the mobile station information.

The control unit of the switching center having received the request from the mobile station information collecting unit of the radio base station responds back regarding the mobile station number of each of the mobile stations camping on the radio base station as the mobile station information S . Specifically the control unit acquires the mobile station number of each of the mobile stations camping on the radio base station based on the location information stored in the location information accumulating unit in S. Then the control unit transmits the acquired mobile station numbers to the radio base station via the IF unit .

When the mobile station numbers of the mobile stations camping on the radio base station is received from the switching center the communication restriction information generating unit of the radio base station generates communication restriction information and stores it in the storage unit S . Further the communication restriction information generating unit transmits the generated communication restriction information to the mobile stations camping on the self station via the wireless IF unit to thereby notify the mobile stations about the restriction plan S .

The control unit of each mobile station having received the communication restriction information stores the communication restriction information in the storage unit and displays the restriction plan for the self station number on the display unit to thereby let the user know the restriction plan S .

Next it is assumed that a transmission request is issued by the user via the input unit . When the control unit receives the transmission request the control unit refers to the communication restriction information stored in the storage unit and checks whether or not a transmission restriction is imposed on the self station. In this case since it corresponds to the transmission restriction period the control unit rejects the transmission request S .

On the other hand it is assumed that as a result of the check though the current time period corresponds to the transmittable period the current time period corresponds to the talk time restriction period. In this case the control unit accepts the transmission request from the user S . Thereafter a connection is established among the mobile station the radio base station and the switching center and a talk is started S .

When the connection between the mobile station and the switching center is established in the transmission procedure in S the communication control unit of the radio base station starts measuring the talk time and monitors the talk time S . When the measured talk time exceeds the talk time permitted for the mobile station shown by the communication restriction information stored in the storage unit the communication control unit forcibly disconnects the talk S . Thereafter among the mobile station the radio base station and the switching center a talk end procedure is normally performed S .

Thereafter when the congestion detecting unit of the radio base station detects that the congestion state is solved the congestion detecting unit instructs the communication control unit to remove the communication restriction S . The communication control unit notifies the mobile station about the removal of the communication restriction S .

As described above with the mobile communication system according to the second exemplary embodiment when an occurrence of congestion is detected by the congestion control unit installed in the radio base station the communication restriction information is generated while avoiding any imbalance among the mobile stations camping on the self station and such mobile stations are notified about the communication restriction information. Accordingly congestion can be avoided in an equal and proper manner.

Further the mobile station according to this exemplary embodiment is configured to cause the display unit to display the received communication restriction information to thereby notify the user about the specific contents of the transmission restriction. Accordingly in the case where congestion occurs at the site where participants in an event gather or upon an occurrence of a natural disaster since the users of the mobile stations can tell when the restriction is removed it is possible to avoid the situation where the users unduly perform transmission operations or the situation where they just have to wait for removal of restriction. Accordingly communications during emergency situations can be improved.

Note that the above described operations i.e. the detection of congestion S and the resolution of the congestion state S can be executed as being triggered by the planned restriction start and the planned restriction removal which are performed by a network operator.

Further in the foregoing the description has been given of the case where the control unit of the mobile station determines as to whether or not to permit transmission based on the transmittable period set by the communication restriction information. However the communication control unit of the radio base station may determine as to whether or not to permit a connection based on the transmittable period set by the communication restriction information.

A mobile communication system according to a third exemplary embodiment is characterized in that the switching center includes a congestion control unit for avoiding congestion. In the following a description will be given with reference to the drawings. However as to the configurations already described with reference to the description is partially omitted.

The control unit communicates with any radio base station via the IF unit . Further the control unit carries out communication under control of the congestion control unit when congestion occurs.

The congestion control unit exerts control for avoiding and solving the congestion state. The congestion control unit specifically includes a congestion detecting unit a mobile station information collecting unit and a communication restriction information generating unit .

The congestion detecting unit monitors data traffic flowing through the control unit and detects whether or not congestion is occurring in the self station. When an occurrence of congestion is detected the congestion detecting unit notifies the mobile station information collecting unit about the occurrence.

When the mobile station information collecting unit is notified about the occurrence of congestion by the congestion detecting unit the mobile station information collecting unit accesses the location information accumulating unit and collects mobile station information on the mobile stations camping on the radio base station to be subjected to a communication restriction. The mobile station information collecting unit sends the collected mobile station information to the communication restriction information generating unit .

The communication restriction information generating unit generates communication restriction information taking into consideration of an imbalance as to the mobile station number or the like based on the mobile station information. Specifically the communication restriction information generating unit includes a grouping unit and a restriction plan list determining unit .

When the grouping unit receives the mobile station information from the mobile station information collecting unit the grouping unit divides the plurality of mobile stations into a plurality of groups using a grouping method according to which an imbalance among the groups becomes equal to or less than a predetermined reference based on the mobile station information.

The restriction plan list determining unit receives from the grouping unit information specifying the grouping method used for the grouping. Then the restriction plan list determining unit determines the contents of the restriction plan list and generates communication restriction information. The restriction plan list determining unit outputs the generated communication restriction information to the location information accumulating unit to be stored therein and also transmits the generated communication restriction information to the radio base station to be subjected to a communication restriction via the control unit and the IF unit . The radio base station stores the received communication restriction information in the storage unit and also transmits the received communication restriction information to the mobile stations via the wireless IF unit .

Next a description will be given of the operation of the mobile communication system according to the third exemplary embodiment. is a sequence diagram showing the operation of the mobile communication system according to the third exemplary embodiment.

In since S S S to S and S are respectively identical to S S S to S and S of the sequence diagram shown in the description thereof is omitted.

Upon an occurrence of a disaster or the like the congestion control unit in the switching center detects an occurrence of congestion in the self station S . When the congestion control unit detects the occurrence of congestion the communication restriction information generating unit generates communication restriction information taking into consideration of an imbalance among the groups and accumulates the communication restriction information in the location information accumulating unit S .

Further the congestion control unit transmits the generated communication restriction information to the radio base stations via the control unit and the IF unit and requests the radio base stations to notify the mobile stations about the restriction plan S . The communication control unit of each radio base station stores the communication control information in the storage unit and responds back to the switching center regarding the restriction plan notice request S .

When the connection between a mobile station and the switching center is established in the transmission procedure in S the control unit of the switching center starts measuring the talk time and monitors the talk time S . Further when the measured talk time exceeds the talk time permitted for the mobile station set by the communication restriction information stored in the location information accumulating unit the control unit forcibly disconnects the talk S .

Thereafter when the congestion detecting unit of the switching center detects that the congestion state is solved the congestion detecting unit instructs the control unit to remove the communication restriction S . The control unit notifies the radio base stations about a restriction plan cancel request S . Each radio base station having received the notice responds back to the switching center and deletes or invalidates the corresponding communication control information stored in the storage unit S . Further each radio base station notifies the mobile stations camping on the base station about the restriction removal .

In this manner with the mobile communication system according to the third exemplary embodiment the congestion control unit is installed in the switching center governing a plurality of radio base stations and congestion occurring in the switching center is detected and congestion control is exerted. Accordingly a planned restriction can be imposed on the service area of a wider range.

Note that in the foregoing though the description has been given of the configuration in which the congestion detecting unit monitors the traffic of the control unit to thereby detect an occurrence of congestion in the self station the present invention is not limited thereto. The congestion detecting unit may monitor the data flowing through the control unit to thereby detect an occurrence of congestion in the radio base stations governed by the self station. In this case as shown in the congestion control unit further includes a restriction target radio base station determining unit .

When the restriction target radio base station determining unit detects an occurrence of the congestion detecting unit it specifies in which radio base station the congestion is occurring and determines the radio base station to be the target of the communication restriction. The restriction target radio base station determining unit notifies the mobile station information collecting unit about information identifying the radio base station to be the target of the communication restriction such as the base station ID. The mobile station information collecting unit collects the mobile station information on the mobile stations to be the target of the restriction from the location information accumulating unit . Such a configuration may also be employed.

Further in the present invention the functions of the congestion control unit realizing congestion control may be separately allocated to the radio base station and the switching center to structure the congestion control system. For example in the foregoing though it has been described as to the case where the congestion detecting unit is provided in the switching center the present invention is not limited thereto. The congestion detecting unit may be disposed in each of the radio base stations such that an occurrence of congestion is detected by the traffic of the radio base stations being monitored.

In this case when the congestion detecting unit disposed in the radio base station detects an occurrence of congestion the congestion detecting unit notifies the congestion control unit disposed in the switching center . When the mobile station information collecting unit of the congestion control unit receives the notice about the occurrence of congestion from the radio base station the mobile station information collecting unit collects the mobile station information on the mobile stations camping on the radio base station . Then communication restriction information is generated at the communication restriction information generating unit . The generated communication restriction information is transmitted to the radio base station and stored in the storage unit in the radio base station and thereafter the communication control unit may exert communication control based on the communication restriction information.

Further the congestion control unit realizing the congestion control may be installed in other apparatus that governs switching centers.

As has been described in connection with the exemplary embodiments in the foregoing the present invention can provide a congestion control method for a mobile communication system which equally enables the users to conduct communication in emergency situations while avoiding congestion when congestion is detected or expected.

Further since the restriction contents are displayed at each mobile station at the display unit the users are prevented from becoming uncertain when the restriction is removed. Accordingly it becomes possible to prevent the situation where the users unduly perform transmission operations or the situation where they just have to wait for removal of a restriction while being unable to conduct communication during emergency situations.

Further since the congestion control unit the congestion control apparatus can monitor the talk time and forcibly disconnect as necessary it becomes possible to prevent any user who is temporarily released from restriction and starts a talk from occupying the line for a long period and to allow other users to equally use the line.

Note that in the foregoing though the description has been given of the case where the grouping unit performs grouping to create a predetermined number of groups the present invention is not limited thereto. is a flowchart showing one example of the grouping method performed by the grouping unit.

The grouping unit acquires information on the degree of congestion i.e. the degree of seriousness of congestion from the congestion detecting unit S . Next the grouping unit acquires mobile station information from the mobile station information collecting unit S .

The grouping unit determines into what number of groups the grouping should be performed for imposing a restriction based on the information on the degree of congestion acquired in Step or the number of mobile stations specified by the mobile station information acquired in Step S . That is the grouping unit determines the number of groups.

Next the grouping unit performs grouping in which the mobile stations are divided into the groups as many as the number determined in Step according to a predetermined grouping method S . Here whether or not an imbalance among the groups is equal to or less than a predetermined reference that is whether or not a predetermined reference is satisfied is determined S . As a result of determination when the imbalance exceeds the predetermined reference the control returns to S and grouping is again performed according to a different grouping method S .

By performing grouping according to such a procedure communication control can be more properly exerted. Further the restriction plan list determining unit at the following stage may also acquire the degree of congestion from the congestion detecting unit and acquire the number of mobile stations to be subjected to the communication restriction from the mobile station information collecting unit. Then the communication restriction information should be generated based on these pieces of information. For example when the degree of congestion is serious or the number of mobile stations to be the target of a restriction is great it is also possible to generate the communication restriction information having the permitted talk time set to be shorter than the predetermined reference.

Further in the foregoing description though the description has been given of the case where the communication restriction information is generated as being triggered by detection of an occurrence of congestion the present invention is not limited thereto. It is also possible to periodically generate the communication restriction information before congestion occurs. For example the congestion control unit may have a timer for measuring a certain time and the restriction target mobile station collecting unit may collect mobile station information every certain time measured by the timer whereas the communication restriction information generating unit may generate communication restriction information and store the same in the storage unit. In this case when the congestion occurrence detecting unit detects an occurrence of convergence the congestion occurrence detecting unit notifies the communication control unit about the occurrence of congestion and the communication control unit reads the communication restriction information stored in the storage unit and transmits the same to the camping mobile stations.

That is communication restriction information is preliminarily and periodically generated at the stage before congestion occurs in preparation for an occurrence of congestion. Thus the state where a restriction can be imposed just by transmitting the already generated communication restriction information upon an occurrence of congestion is maintained.

In this case since it is unnecessary to create the restriction plan list upon an occurrence of congestion the users can be notified about the restriction plan more quickly. Further upon an occurrence of a disaster a communication restriction must be imposed on a greater range and therefore the congestion control process may be intensively required. Such a situation can be alleviated. That is since the communication restriction information is preliminarily created what is required is just to send the notice of such information. Hence a communication restriction can be imposed quickly and precisely and an occurrence of convergence can be avoided.

Further in the foregoing though the description has been given of the case where the congestion detecting unit detects an occurrence of congestion the present invention is not limited thereto. The congestion detecting unit may monitor the traffic quantity and congestion control may be started when an occurrence of congestion is expected. That is the congestion detecting unit may be configured to instruct when the traffic quantity flowing through the communication control unit exceeds a predetermined first reference the mobile station information collecting unit to collect mobile station information. Such a configuration makes it possible to impose a proper and equal communication restriction while avoiding an occurrence of congestion. Note that in this case the restriction contents may be relatively loose i.e. communication restriction information puts the upper limit just on the permitted talk time. When the congestion detecting unit detects that the traffic quantity exceeds a second reference which is the reference of a congestion occurrence the restriction contents may be altered. Then the communication restriction information may be generated and transmitted to carry out a communication restriction.

Further in the foregoing though the description has been given of the case where the congestion detecting unit monitors the traffic quantity to thereby detect congestion the present invention is not limited thereto. For example the congestion detecting unit may monitor the CPU load factor of the communication control unit and when the load factor exceeds a predetermined reference value e.g. 90 for a certain time period it may be determined that congestion is occurring.

Still further in the foregoing though the description has been given of the case where the communication restriction information is generated or transmitted when congestion is detected or expected by the congestion detecting unit the present invention is not limited thereto. It is also possible to further include a receiver unit that receives disaster information notifying about an occurrence of a disaster such as an earthquake from an external source and the communication restriction process described above may be performed based on the received information. Further such information to be received may be Earthquake Early Warning distributed by the meteorological agency. When an earthquake of a predetermined reference magnitude or greater occurs by starting the communication restriction process before the main shock occurs the communication restriction can be performed in a proper manner before the congestion state is reached.

Further in the foregoing description though the object is to solve the congestion state upon an occurrence of congestion the present invention can achieve other purposes. For example not only when congestion is occurring but when traffic is heavy a time period during which high throughput is guaranteed can be allocated to each mobile station. In this case while the communication restriction information generating unit imposes a communication restriction on the mobile stations camping on any radio base station being the target of a communication restriction it guarantees high throughput to a predetermined group for a predetermined period.

Normally throughput is limited when traffic is heavy. However making a reservation to download heavy data in a time period during which high throughput is available convenience of the users can be improved.

Note that the present invention is not limited to the exemplary embodiments described above and can be modified as appropriate in the range not departing from the gist of the present invention. For example the present invention can be practiced in the following modes.

 1 A congestion control apparatus including collecting means for collecting mobile station information on a plurality of mobile stations camping on a radio base station to be a target of a communication restriction grouping means for dividing based on the mobile station information the plurality of mobile stations into a plurality of groups each serving as a unit of the communication restriction by using a grouping method according to which an imbalance among the groups becomes equal to or less than a predetermined reference and transmission means for transmitting information specifying the grouping method.

 2 The congestion control apparatus according to 1 further including generation means for generating communication restriction information indicative of communication restriction contents containing the information specifying the grouping method wherein the transmission means is configured to transmit the communication restriction information.

 3 The congestion control apparatus according to 2 wherein the generation means is configured to generate the communication restriction information by setting to each of the groups divided by the grouping means a permitted talk time indicative of a length of a time during which a talk is permitted and a transmittable period indicative of a time period during which transmission is permitted.

 4 The congestion control apparatus according to any one of 1 to 3 wherein the grouping means is configured to divide based on the mobile station information the plurality of mobile stations into the plurality of groups by using a grouping method according to which an imbalance among the groups becomes equal to or less than a predetermined reference as to the number of mobile stations belonging to each of the groups.

 5 The congestion control apparatus according to any one of 1 to 4 wherein the grouping means is configured to determine the number of groups based on the mobile station information and to divide the plurality of mobile stations into the determined number of groups by using a grouping method according to which an imbalance among the groups becomes equal to or less than a predetermined reference.

 6 The congestion control apparatus according to 3 further including communication control means for controlling communication of the mobile stations and measuring means for measuring a talk time of each of the mobile stations wherein the communication control means is configured to exerts control for disconnecting a talk of a mobile station when a talk time of the mobile station measured by the measuring means exceeds the permitted talk time of the mobile station set by the communication restriction information.

 7 The congestion control apparatus according to 6 wherein the communication control means is configured to exert control for rejecting a communication connection request when a time point at which the communication connection request is received from a mobile station is outside a transmittable period of the mobile station set by the communication restriction information.

 8 The congestion control apparatus according to 1 to 7 further including detecting means for detecting an occurrence of congestion and determining means for determining the radio base station to be the target of the communication restriction when the occurrence of congestion is detected by the detecting means wherein the collecting means is configured to collect when the occurrence of congestion is detected by the detecting means mobile station information on a plurality of mobile stations camping on the radio base station determined to be the target of the communication restriction from a storage apparatus storing mobile station information on a plurality of mobile stations respectively camping on a plurality of radio base stations.

 9 The congestion control apparatus according to 8 wherein the determining means is configured to determine by determining a switching center to be the target of the communication restriction based on the detected congestion radio base stations governed by the switching center as the radio base station to be the target of a communication restriction.

 10 A congestion control method including collecting mobile station information on a plurality of mobile stations camping a radio base station to be a target of a communication restriction dividing based on the mobile station information the plurality of mobile stations into a plurality of groups by using a grouping method according to which an imbalance among the groups becomes equal to or less than a predetermined reference and transmitting information specifying the grouping method.

 13 The congestion control apparatus according to 2 to 9 further including storage means for temporarily storing the generated communication restriction information wherein the generation means is configured to generate the communication restriction information every predetermined period and to temporarily store the generated communication restriction information in the storage means and wherein the transmission means is configured to transmit the communication restriction information temporarily stored in the storage means upon an occurrence of congestion or when an occurrence of congestion is expected.

 14 The congestion control apparatus according to 13 wherein the collecting means is configured to collect mobile station information on a plurality of mobile stations camping on the radio base station to be the target of a communication restriction every predetermined period and the generation means is configured to generate communication restriction information indicative of communication restriction contents containing information specifying the grouping method every aforementioned predetermined period and to temporarily store the generated communication restriction information in the storage means.

 15 The congestion control apparatus according to 13 or 14 further including congestion detecting means for detecting an occurrence of congestion or expecting an occurrence of congestion wherein the transmission means is configured to read and transmit the communication restriction information temporarily stored in the storage means when the congestion detecting means detects an occurrence of congestion or expects an occurrence of congestion.

The present application claims priority rights of and is based on Japanese Patent Application No. 2011 172895 filed on Aug. 8 2011 in the Japanese Patent Office the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention is applied to a congestion control apparatus a congestion control method and a congestion control system. In particular the present invention is applied to the purpose of exerting congestion control among mobile stations subjected to a communication restriction while maintaining equality.

