---

title: Near field communication authentication and validation to access corporate data
abstract: A system for near field communication authentication (NFC) and validation to access corporate data is provided. The system comprises a mobile phone, an enterprise server, a building access sensor coupled to the server, and an enterprise network comprising a domain. The sensor comprises a NFC transceiver. The phone comprises a NFC transceiver and a trusted security zone which comprises private enterprise credentials and an application, where the application establishes a wireless link to the sensor via the NFC transceiver, couples the NFC transceiver with memory storing the credentials, and transmits the credentials to the sensor via the NFC transceiver. The enterprise server comprises a trusted security zone and an application stored in the trusted security zone, where the application receives the credentials via the sensor, authorizes access to the building based on the credentials, and authenticates the user to the domain on the enterprise network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08494576&OS=08494576&RS=08494576
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 08494576
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120503
---
Near field communication NFC refers to short range wireless radio communication between two devices typically occurring over distances no more than a few centimeters. NFC radio communication may be used for financial transactions such as completing a payment transaction from a mobile phone encapsulating an electronic credit card and or debit card to a point of sale POS terminal. NFC radio communication may be used to provide personal identification and or to electronically access physical spaces for example to provide a student identification an employee identification a medical identification to activate a badge reader to unlock an entry door to access a hotel room to access a rental car. NFC radio communication may be used for communicating content such as reading explanatory information from an NFC tag coupled to a placard in a museum or in a retail display.

In an embodiment a system for near field communication authentication and validation to access corporate data is disclosed. The system comprises a mobile phone an enterprise server a building access sensor coupled to the enterprise server and an enterprise network comprising a domain. The building access sensor comprises a near field communication NFC transceiver. The mobile phone comprises a near field communication transceiver and a trusted security zone which comprises private enterprise credentials and an application where the application establishes a wireless link to the building access sensor via the near field communication transceiver couples the near field communication transceiver with memory in the trusted security zone of the mobile phone storing the private enterprise credentials and transmits the private enterprise credentials to the building access sensor via the near field communication transceiver. The enterprise server comprises a trusted security zone and an application stored in the trusted security zone where the application receives the private enterprise credentials via the building access sensor authorizes access to the building based on the private security credentials and authenticates the user identified by the private enterprise credentials granting the user access to a computer accessing the domain on the enterprise network.

In an embodiment a method of near field communication authentication and validation to access corporate data is disclosed. The method comprises establishing a near field communication wireless link between a building access sensor and a mobile phone where the mobile phone comprises a trusted security zone and wherein the trusted security zone comprises private enterprise credentials. The near field communication transceiver in the mobile phone is coupled with memory in the trusted security zone storing the private enterprise credentials. The private enterprise credentials are transmitted to the building access sensor via the near field communication wireless link. The private enterprise credentials are received by an application executing on an enterprise server coupled to the building access sensor where the application executes in a trusted security zone on the enterprise server. Access to the building is authorized based on the private enterprise credentials and the user identified by the private enterprise credentials is authenticated to a domain on an enterprise network by the enterprise server.

In an embodiment a method of near field communication authentication and validation to access corporate data is disclosed. The method comprises establishing a near field communication wireless link between a building access sensor and a mobile phone where the mobile phone comprises a trusted security zone and a biometric reader and wherein the trusted security zone comprises private enterprise credentials. The near field communication transceiver in the mobile phone is coupled with memory in the trusted security zone storing the private enterprise credentials. The private enterprise credentials are transmitted to the building access sensor via the near field communication wireless link. The private enterprise credentials are received by an application executing on an enterprise server coupled to the building access sensor where the application executes in a trusted security zone on the enterprise server. Access to the building is authorized based on the private enterprise credentials and the user identified by the private enterprise credentials is authenticated to a domain on an enterprise network by the enterprise server. A wireless link is established between a computer on the enterprise network and the mobile phone and a user of the mobile phone is authenticated on the computer based on identification sent from the biometric reader on the mobile phone.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

Corporate data historically has been stored on enterprise based servers. With the increasing use of Internet or cloud based storage facilities the demand for enhanced security is rising. Access to corporate data and applications whether stored on local enterprise servers or in Internet storage services is typically granted through a login process and a physical data entry of a password. Near field communication NFC allows for transactions data exchange and wireless connections between two devices in proximity to each other. Technology based on near field communication specifications may be used in a mobile phone or similar mobile device to enable users to securely store credentials on the mobile phone to be used as identification. Extending the use of the credentials to not only provide identification for purposes such as building access but to also initiate authentication onto the enterprise network to provide access to corporate data may enable enhanced security for the enterprise.

The present disclosure teaches a system and method for near field communication authentication and validation to access corporate data. The system provides the ability to utilize a trusted security zone architecture built into the main processor chipset of a mobile phone to implement a secure method for storing private enterprise credentials on the mobile phone for use in contactless access to facilities and additionally to authenticate onto the enterprise network. A near field communication transceiver built into the mobile phone may be coupled to memory in the trusted security zone of the mobile phone storing the private enterprise credentials. When the near field communication transceiver in the mobile phone is brought into close proximity to a near field communication transceiver in a building access sensor in a corporate office a contactless wireless link between the two near field communication transceivers is established.

The mobile phone transmits the private enterprise credentials to the building access sensor over the near field communication wireless link. The building access sensor validates the private enterprise credentials for building access privileges and sends the credentials to an enterprise server on the corporate enterprise network for network authentication. Once the building access privileges and network authentication are verified the employee owning the mobile phone is allowed entry into the facility and the enterprise network domain the employee belongs to is aware of their entry and may allow them access to the enterprise network based on their access privileges. The user s personal computer in their office may also be notified of the user s entry waking up from a low power state and or rebooting to be available for use when the user arrives at the office. A second authentication may be performed when the near field communication transceiver in the mobile phone is brought into close proximity with the user s personal computer. The user s personal computer may also comprise a trusted security zone allowing a trusted execution environment between the computer and the mobile phone.

In an embodiment the mobile phone the building access sensor and the enterprise server may all implement trusted security zones to ensure that a chain of trust between the devices is maintained. The chain of trust enables the security to send the private enterprise credentials from the mobile phone to the building access sensor and on to the enterprise server without exposing the data to hackers or malware applications which may try to obtain the credentials. Because the trusted security zone in each device provides hardware and software protections against attacks and isolates functions outside the trusted security zone from operating when applications in the trusted security zone are executing the private enterprise credentials may be considered trusted meaning not only can they be authenticated as the proper credentials for access but they may be considered as having come from the mobile device and not another entity.

In addition to authenticating the user of the mobile phone on a domain on the enterprise network based on the private enterprise credentials the enterprise network may support additional capabilities to leverage the integration of the mobile phone network with enterprise network services. The enterprise server may track the location of the mobile phone as it moves through the facility enabling access to authorized servers and networks based on the location of the mobile phone. The employee may be granted access to the enterprise network domain from other computers based on their location in the facility. The mobile phone may also be authorized to access the enterprise network domain directly for example to access corporate email or view a document based on authentication of the private enterprise credentials.

The enterprise server may prepare the computer of the mobile phone user upon their entrance to the building so that their computer is powered up and ready to be accessed when they arrive at their office. The mobile phone may also contain a biometric reader such as a fingerprint reader and may utilize the near field communication transceiver to establish a wireless link with a near field communication transceiver in their computer when the user of the mobile phone reaches their office. The identification from the biometric reader is sent over the wireless link to the computer and the user is authenticated onto the computer. The user may use their phone to wirelessly access the building authenticate onto the enterprise network and login to their computer allowing the user to have their work environment up and ready to go after only seconds of reaching their office. All of this is accomplished through a trusted execution environment providing secure and trusted transactions across the involved devices.

In an embodiment a trusted security zone provides chipsets with a hardware root of trust a secure execution environment for applications and secure access to peripherals. A hardware root of trust means the chipset should only execute programs intended by the device manufacturer or vendor and resists software and physical attacks and therefore remains trusted to provide the intended level of security. The chipset architecture is designed to promote a programmable environment that allows the confidentiality and integrity of assets to be protected from specific attacks. Trusted security zone capabilities are becoming mainstream features in mobile device chipsets. Providing the trusted security zone in the main mobile device chipset and protecting the hardware root of trust removes the need for separate secure hardware to authenticate the device or user. To ensure the integrity of the applications requiring trusted data such as a mobile financial services application the trusted security zone also provides the secure execution environment where only trusted applications can operate safe from attacks. Security is further promoted by restricting access of non trusted applications to peripherals such as data inputs and data outputs while a trusted application is running in the secure execution environment.

A complete Trusted Execution Environment TEE may be implemented through the use of the trusted security zone hardware and software architecture. The Trusted Execution Environment is an execution environment that is parallel to the execution environment of the main mobile device operating system. Through standardization of application programming interfaces APIs the Trusted Execution Environment becomes a place to which scalable deployment of secure services can be targeted. A device which has a chipset that has a Trusted Execution Environment on it may exist in a trusted services environment where devices in the trusted services environment are trusted and protected against attacks. The Trusted Execution Environment can be implemented on mobile phones and tablets as well as extending to other trusted devices such as sensors medical devices point of sale terminals industrial automation handheld terminals automotive etc.

The trusted security zone may be implemented by partitioning all of the hardware and software resources of the mobile device into two partitions a secure partition and a normal partition. In some contexts the secure partition may be referred to as a secure world or a secure execution world and the normal partition may be referred to as a non secure world or a non secure execution world. Placing sensitive resources in the secure partition can protect against possible attacks on those resources. For example resources such as trusted software applications may run in the secure partition and have access to hardware peripherals such as a touchscreen or a secure location in memory. Less secure peripherals such as wireless radios may be disabled completely while the secure partition is being accessed while other peripherals may only be accessed from the secure partition. While the secure partition is being accessed through the Trusted Execution environment the main mobile operating system in the normal partition is suspended and applications in the normal partition are prevented from accessing the secure peripherals and data. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from breaking the trust of the device.

The trusted security zone may be implemented by partitioning the hardware and software resources to exist in a secure subsystem which is not accessible to components outside the secure subsystem. The trusted security zone is built into the processor architecture through hardware logic present in the trusted security zone which enables a perimeter boundary between the secure partition and the normal partition. Software architecture to support the secure partition may be provided through a dedicated secure kernel running trusted applications. Trusted applications are independent secure applications which can be accessed by normal applications through an application programming interface in the Trusted Execution Environment on a chipset that utilizes the trusted security zone.

In an embodiment the normal partition applications may run on a first virtual processor and the secure partition applications run on a second virtual processor. Both virtual processors may run on a single physical processor executing in a time sliced fashion removing the need for a dedicated physical security processor. Time sliced execution comprises switching contexts between the two virtual processors to share processor resources based on tightly controlled mechanisms such as secure software instructions or hardware exceptions. The context of the currently running virtual processor is saved the context of the virtual processor being switched to is restored and processing is restarted in the restored virtual processor. Time sliced execution protects the trusted security zone by stopping the execution of the normal partition while the secure partition is executing.

The two virtual processors may context switch via a processor mode called monitor mode when changing the currently running virtual processor. The mechanisms by which the processor can enter monitor mode from the normal partition are tightly controlled. The entry to monitor mode can be triggered by software executing a dedicated instruction the Secure Monitor Call SMC instruction or by a subset of the hardware exception mechanisms such as hardware interrupts which can be configured to cause the processor to switch into monitor mode. The software that executes within monitor mode then saves the context of the running virtual processor and switches to the secure virtual processor.

The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system that is not accessible to the mobile device users. For security purposes the trusted security zone is not open to users for installing applications which means users do not have access to install applications in the trusted security zone. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from executing powerful instructions reserved to the trusted security zone and thus preserves the trust of the device. The security of the system is achieved at least in part by partitioning the hardware and software resources of the mobile phone so they exist in one of two partitions the secure partition for the security subsystem and the normal partition for everything else. Placing the trusted security zone in the secure partition and restricting access from the normal partition protects against software and basic hardware attacks. Hardware logic ensures that no secure partition resources can be accessed by the normal partition components or applications. A dedicated secure partition operating system runs in a virtual processor separate from the normal partition operating system that likewise executes in its own virtual processor. Users may install applications on the mobile device which may execute in the normal partition operating system described above. The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system for the secure partition that is installed by the mobile device manufacturer or vendor and users are not able to install new applications in or alter the contents of the trusted security zone.

Turning now to a system for near field communication authentication and validation to access corporate data is described. The system comprises a mobile phone and a facility where the facility comprises a building access sensor an enterprise network an enterprise server and a computer . The mobile phone comprises a near field communication transceiver and a trusted security zone where the trusted security zone comprises an application and private enterprise credentials . The mobile phone while shown as a mobile phone may be a personal digital assistant PDA a media player or other network enabled electronic device. The building access sensor comprises a near field communication transceiver and a trusted security zone . The enterprise server comprises a trusted security zone and an application which is stored and executes in the trusted security zone .

When the mobile phone is in close proximity to the building access sensor the application in the trusted security zone may establish a wireless link to the building access sensor via the near field communication transceiver in the mobile phone and the near field communication transceiver in the building access sensor . The application then couples the near field communication transceiver with memory in the trusted security zone of the mobile phone storing the private enterprise credentials and transmits the private enterprise credentials to the building access sensor via the near field transceiver . The application in the trusted security zone on the enterprise server receives the private enterprise credentials via the building access sensor . The application authorizes access to the facility based on the private enterprise credentials . The application then authenticates the user identified by the private enterprise credentials to a domain on the enterprise network . Authenticating the user to a domain on the enterprise network may also provide enhanced security by decreasing the benefit of someone following the user into the building. The domain on the enterprise network may expect a user to be authenticated at the building access sensor prior to allowing access to a computer inside the facility . Therefore a person who gained access to the facility by closely following someone else would not be able to access computers and the enterprise network because they did not authenticate upon entry.

In an embodiment the building access sensor further comprises a trusted security zone . The building access sensor may process the private enterprise credentials prior to sending them to the enterprise server and the trusted security zone may be implemented to ensure the security and maintain the trust of the private enterprise credentials . The building access terminal may be a potential hacking target and providing the trusted security zone ensures the private enterprise credentials cannot be accessed by applications outside of the trusted security zone .

In an embodiment the trusted security zone on the mobile phone enables execution of a Trusted Execution Environment TEE on the mobile phone where the Trusted Execution Environment is a secure and trusted hardware and software environment that is not accessible to applications and systems in the main mobile phone operating system. The Trusted Execution Environment execution environment is parallel to the main execution environment of the mobile phone operating system and applications and data residing in the Trusted Execution Environment on the mobile phone are trusted and protected against attacks. In an embodiment the trusted security zone on the enterprise server enables execution of a Trusted Execution Environment TEE on the enterprise server where the Trusted Execution Environment is a secure and trusted hardware and software environment that is not accessible to applications and systems in the main enterprise server operating system. The Trusted Execution Environment on the enterprise server may exist in a trusted services environment when combined with the mobile phone and the building sensor running their own Trusted Execution Environments. The trusted services environment allows deployment of secure services across devices while maintaining trust and resisting attacks.

In an embodiment the main mobile phone operating system is disabled when the application in the trusted security zone is executing. Software architecture to support the trusted security zone may be provided through a dedicated secure operating system running trusted applications. When the application in the trusted security zone is running the main mobile phone operating system may be paused and processor resources may be dedicated to the secure operating system running the trusted security zone based on tightly controlled mechanisms such as secure software instructions or hardware exceptions.

In an embodiment the main enterprise server operating system is disabled when the application in the trusted security zone is executing. Software architecture to support the trusted security zone may be provided through a dedicated secure operating system running trusted applications. When the application in the trusted security zone is running the main enterprise server operating system may be paused and processor resources may be dedicated to the secure operating system running the trusted security zone based on tightly controlled mechanisms such as secure software instructions or hardware exceptions. Access to hardware resources may be blocked from applications executing in the main enterprise server operating system limiting access to sensitive data.

In an embodiment transmitting the private enterprise credentials from the trusted security zone on the mobile phone to the trusted security zone on the enterprise server ensures a chain of trust is not broken and the private enterprise credentials are trusted by the enterprise server to have originated from the mobile phone . Because the mobile phone and the enterprise server both operate a Trusted Execution Environment the chain of trust is maintained when transmitting the private enterprise credentials between them. The chain of trust may also include the building access sensor if it maintains a trusted security zone . Keeping the private enterprise credentials in a trusted environment from the beginning of the transaction to the end of the transaction ensures they will be trusted when reaching their destination.

Turning now to a method of near field communication authentication and validation to access corporate data is described. At block a near field communication wireless link is established between a building access sensor and a mobile phone where the mobile phone comprises a trusted security zone and where the trusted security zone comprises private enterprise credentials . When the mobile phone comes into proximity of the building access sensor a wireless link is established between a near field communication transceiver in the mobile phone and a near field communication transceiver in the building access sensor . At block the near field communication transceiver in the mobile phone is coupled with memory in the trusted security zone storing the private enterprise credentials . The near field communication transceiver is coupled to the memory in the trusted security zone in preparation for transmitting data over the wireless link.

At block the private enterprise credentials are transmitted to the building access sensor via the near field communication wireless link. At block the private enterprise credentials are received by an application executing on an enterprise server coupled to the building access sensor where the application executes in a trusted security zone on the enterprise server . The application executes in the trusted security zone and is coupled to the near field communication transceiver in the building access sensor . When the private enterprise credentials are transmitted over the wireless link from the mobile phone they are received and processed by the application . At block access to the building is authorized based on the private enterprise credentials . The application verifies the private enterprise credentials and authorizes access to the building. At block the user identified by the private enterprise credentials is authenticated to a domain on an enterprise network . The application also authenticates the user to the domain on the enterprise network based on the private enterprise credentials where the domain on the enterprise network comprises a plurality of computer resources the user may access based on a single authentication.

In an embodiment the building access sensor further comprises a trusted security zone . The building access sensor may play a more prominent role in the access transaction rather than simply coupling to the enterprise server to process the private enterprise credentials . The building access sensor may also support a Trusted Execution Environment and process the private enterprise credentials to authorize access to the building prior to sending the private enterprise credentials to the enterprise server for authentication to the domain on the enterprise network .

In an embodiment transmitting the private enterprise credentials from the trusted security zone on the mobile phone to the trusted security zone on the building access sensor and from the trusted security zone on the building access sensor to the trusted security zone on the enterpriser server ensures a chain of trust is not broken and the private enterprise credentials are trusted by the enterprise server to have originated from the mobile phone . Because the mobile phone building access sensor and the enterprise server each operate a Trusted Execution Environment the chain of trust is maintained when transmitting the private enterprise credentials between them. The Trusted Execution Environment may also extend to routers switches and other components comprising the enterprise network and these network components may also implement trusted security zones. Keeping the private enterprise credentials in a trusted environment from the beginning of the transaction to the end of the transaction ensures they will be trusted when reaching their destination and limits the exposure of the secure data.

In an embodiment functions not executing in the trusted security zones and of the mobile phone the building access server and the enterprise server are disabled when the private security credentials are being transmitted. Hardware and software architecture may support the trusted security zones and on their respective devices. A dedicated operating system may run to support the trusted security zones and and the main device operating systems may be paused while applications are executing in the trusted security zones and .

In an embodiment the domain on the enterprise network is an active directory domain and the enterprise server is an active directory domain controller. Active directory is a directory service for Microsoft Windows domain networks and provides a central location for network administration and security. Enterprise servers that run active directory are call domain controllers and authenticate and authorize users and computers in a network domain.

In an embodiment the method further comprises granting access to a second enterprise server based on a location of the mobile phone in the building and based on user access permissions granted by the private enterprise credentials of the mobile phone . The user of the mobile phone may be granted access to a domain on the enterprise network upon entering the building. Additional functionality may be enabled by monitoring the location of the mobile phone in the facility . For example the initial authentication may be to a domain on the enterprise network that is the primary domain for the user. When the enterprise network detects that the mobile phone has entered a lab area in a separate location of the facility the user may be granted access to the second enterprise server that resides in the lab area but is not on the primary domain on the enterprise network for the user. The enterprise network may detect the location of the mobile phone based on near field communication transceivers located in the building based on a Wi Fi access point the mobile phone is using or through a Global Positioning Satellite GPS transceiver in the mobile phone .

Turning now to a method of near field communication authentication and validation to access corporate data is described. At block a near field communication wireless link is established between a building access sensor and a mobile phone where the mobile phone comprises a trusted security zone and a biometric reader and where the trusted security zone comprises private enterprise credentials . A wireless link is established between a near field communication transceiver in the mobile phone and a near field communication transceiver in the building access sensor . At block the near field communication transceiver in the mobile phone is coupled with memory in the trusted security zone storing the private enterprise credentials . The near field communication transceiver is coupled to the memory in the trusted security zone in preparation for transmitting data over the wireless link. At block the private enterprise credentials are transmitted to the building access sensor via the near field communication wireless link.

At block the private enterprise credentials are received by an application executing on an enterprise server coupled to the building access sensor where the application executes in a trusted security zone on the enterprise server . The application executing in the trusted security zone of the enterprise server is coupled to the near field communication transceiver in the building access sensor and receives and processes the private enterprise credentials . At block access to the building is authorized based on the private enterprise credentials . The application verifies the private enterprise credentials and authorizes access to the building. At block the user identified by the private enterprise credentials is authenticated to a domain on an enterprise network . The application then authenticates the user to the domain on the enterprise network based on the private enterprise credentials . At block a wireless link is established between a computer on the enterprise network and the mobile phone . When the user of the mobile phone comes in proximity to the computer the wireless link is established in preparation of logging the user onto the computer . At block the user of the mobile phone is authenticated on the computer based on identification sent from the biometric reader on the mobile phone . The biometric reader on the mobile phone obtains an identification from the user of the mobile phone . The mobile phone then transmits the identification from the biometric reader to the computer and the user is logged onto the computer based on a successful identification.

In an embodiment the computer on the enterprise network comprises a trusted security zone and authenticating the user of the mobile phone comprises maintaining trusted communications between the computer and the mobile phone . The trusted security zone on the mobile phone may execute an application that controls the biometric reader and transmits the identification to the computer . Authenticating the user via an application executing in the trusted security zone on the computer ensures the trust of the identification and limits the access to the identification by applications outside the trusted security zone on the computer .

In an embodiment authenticating the user of the mobile phone on the computer further comprises authenticating the computer to the domain on the enterprise network . The computer may be coupled to the enterprise network and when the user is logged on to the computer the user may also be authenticated to the domain on the enterprise network . In an embodiment the biometric reader comprises one of a fingerprint recognition system a facial recognition system a retinal recognition system or a voice recognition system. Biometric identifiers are the distinctive measurable characteristics used as a form of identification and access control in computer systems. Because biometric identifiers are unique to individuals they are more reliable in verifying identity than a password or personal identification number.

In an embodiment the method further comprises the enterprise server notifying the computer on the enterprise network when the user identified by the private enterprise credentials is authenticated on the enterprise network . The enterprise server in addition to authenticating the user identified by the private enterprise credentials to the domain on the enterprise network may also provide access to other platforms or services. The computer may be the personal desktop of the user identified by the private enterprise credentials or another computer they use regularly. The enterprise server may notify the computer the user is in the facility triggering the computer to start up from a low power state and or rebooting and be prepared for the user to login.

In an embodiment the method further comprises logging off the computer and the domain on the enterprise network when the wireless link between the computer and the mobile phone is broken. The wireless link is an indication of the proximity of the user of the mobile phone to the computer . When the mobile phone leaves the area of the computer the wireless connection may be broken. Monitoring the wireless link and automatically logging off the computer and the domain on the enterprise network when the wireless link is broken may provide additional security and ensure the user does not leave access to the computer available after leaving the area. Logging off the computer and the domain on the enterprise network may also be triggered by a user defined timeout occurring after the wireless link is broken.

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD . The GPS receiver is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable storage media and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data structures executable instructions and other computer usable program code. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . Alternatively the processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures by remotely accessing the computer program product for example by downloading the executable instructions and or data structures from a remote server through the network connectivity devices . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

In some contexts the secondary storage the ROM and the RAM may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium or a computer readable storage media. A dynamic RAM embodiment of the RAM likewise may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power and is operated in accordance with its design for example during a period of time during which the computer is turned on and operational the dynamic RAM stores information that is written to it. Similarly the processor may comprise an internal RAM an internal ROM a cache memory and or other internal non transitory storage blocks sections or components that may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

