---

title: Behavioral fingerprinting with social networking
abstract: Disclosed herein are example embodiments for behavioral fingerprinting with social networking. For certain example embodiments, one or more devices may: (i) communicate for at least one interaction related to a user of a user device in a behavioral fingerprint habitat; or (ii) administer at least an aspect of at least one interaction related to a user of a user device in a behavioral fingerprint habitat. However, claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments, implementations, examples, or so forth.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09621404&OS=09621404&RS=09621404
owner: Elwha LLC
number: 09621404
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121130
---
If an Application Data Sheet ADS has been filed on the filing date of this application it is incorporated by reference herein. Any applications claimed on the ADS for priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 120 121 or 365 c and any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of such applications are also incorporated by reference including any priority claims made in those applications and any material incorporated by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

The present application is related to and or claims the benefit of the earliest available effective filing date s from the following listed application s the Priority Applications if any listed below e.g. claims earliest available priority dates for other than provisional patent applications or claims benefits under 35 USC 119 e for provisional patent applications for any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Priority Application s . In addition the present application is related to the Related Applications if any listed below.

The United States Patent Office USPTO has published a notice to the effect that the USPTO s computer programs require that patent applicants reference both a serial number and indicate whether an application is a continuation continuation in part or divisional of a parent application. Stephen G. Kunin USPTO Official Gazette Mar. 18 2003. The USPTO further has provided forms for the Application Data Sheet which allow automatic loading of bibliographic data but which require identification of each application as a continuation continuation in part or divisional of a parent application. The present Applicant Entity hereinafter Applicant has provided above a specific reference to the application s from which priority is being claimed as recited by statute. Applicant understands that the statute is unambiguous in its specific reference language and does not require either a serial number or any characterization such as continuation or continuation in part for claiming priority to U.S. patent applications. Notwithstanding the foregoing Applicant understands that the USPTO s computer programs have certain data entry requirements and hence Applicant has provided designation s of a relationship between the present application and its parent application s as set forth above and in any ADS filed in this application but expressly points out that such designation s are not to be construed in any way as any type of commentary and or admission as to whether or not the present application contains any new matter in addition to the matter of its parent application s .

If the listings of applications provided above are inconsistent with the listings provided via an ADS it is the intent of the Applicant to claim priority to each application that appears in the Priority Applications section of the ADS and to each application that appears in the Priority Applications section of this application.

All subject matter of the Priority Applications and the Related Applications and of any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Priority Applications and the Related Applications including any priority claims is incorporated herein by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here.

For certain example embodiments a user may correspond to or be utilizing at least one user device . A user may utilize a user device in accordance with a usage that may be at least partially represented by modeled by incorporated into stored at tracked by summarized in or a combination thereof etc. at least one behavioral fingerprint . A user device may include or comprise by way of example but not limitation a mobile phone a smart phone a mobile terminal a laptop or notebook computer a personal digital assistant PDA a netbook an entertainment appliance e.g. a television a gaming console a set top box a music player or a combination thereof etc. a portable gaming device a user equipment a tablet or slate computer a desktop computer a personal navigation device PND a vehicle with user accessible computational capabilities videoconferencing equipment some combination thereof or so forth. A user may include or comprise by way of example only at least one person a couple siblings a family a partnership an organizational group a company a robotic user e.g. a computational entity an electronic agent a portion thereof some combination thereof or so forth. However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments a network may include by way of example but not limitation at least a portion of one or more networks having one or more nodes that transmit receive forward generate buffer store route switch process or a combination thereof etc. one or more messages packets signals waves voltage or current levels some combination thereof or so forth. A network may include by way of example but not limitation one or more of a wireless network a wired network an internet an intranet a public network a private network a packet switched network a circuit switched network an ad hoc network an infrastructure network a public switched telephone network PSTN a cable network a cellular network a satellite network a fiber optic network some combination thereof or so forth. A node may include by way of example but not limitation a server a router an end user device such as a mobile phone a tablet computer a desktop computer an entertainment appliance a vehicle or a combination thereof etc. a switch a base station a gateway some combination thereof or so forth. However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments a channel may include by way of example but not limitation one or more of at least one wired link at least one wireless link at least part of public network at least part of a private network at least part of a packet switched network at least part of a circuit switched network at least part of an infrastructure network at least part of an ad hoc network at least part of a PSTN at least part of a cable network at least part of a cellular network connection at least part of an Internet connection at least part of a Wi Fi connection at least part of a WiMax connection at least part of an internet backbone at least part of a satellite network at least part of a fiber optic network multiple instances of any of the above one or more network nodes some combination of the above or so forth. A channel may include one or more nodes e.g. a telecommunication node an access point a base station an internet server a gateway an internet or telecommunications switch or a combination thereof etc. through which signals are propagated. A communication may include by way of example but not limitation a transmission of data a reception of data an exchange of data a flow of data e.g. between or among two or more intermediate nodes or endpoints some combination thereof or so forth. A user device may communicate with a server device or vice versa via one or more signals not explicitly shown using one or more channels . A couple of examples of channels are illustrated in schematic diagram as well as in additional figures such as schematic diagram A of . Signals may propagate via one or more channels . Signals by way of example but not limitation may include electrical signals magnetic signals electromagnetic signals photonic signals wireless signals wired signals multiples ones thereof some combination thereof or so forth. However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments a server device may include or comprise by way of example but not limitation one or more of a stand alone server a server blade a server rack a bank of servers a server farm hardware supporting a part of a cloud service or system a home server hardware running a virtualized server one or more processors executing code to function as a server one or more machines performing server side functionality as described herein at least a portion of any of the above some combination thereof or so forth. However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments at least one behavioral fingerprint may include by way of example but not limitation one or more indicators representing one or more behaviors of at least one user with respect to at least one user device. Examples of one or more indicators representing one or more behaviors of at least one user with respect to at least one user device may include but are not limited to one or more indicators representing one or more habits of at least one user with respect to at least one user device one or more indicators representing usage of at least one user device by at least one user one or more indicators representing one or more actions of at least one user with respect to at least one user device some combination thereof or so forth. Additionally or alternatively at least one behavioral fingerprint may include by way of example but not limitation one or more indicators representing one or more predicted acts e.g. behaviors such as habits usages actions or a combination thereof etc. of at least one user with respect to at least one device. Additionally or alternatively at least one behavioral fingerprint may include by way of example but not limitation at least one status of a user that is utilizing or that corresponds to a user device. For certain example implementations a user whose behavior is being monitored to at least partially establish at least a portion of at least one behavioral fingerprint may comprise an authorized user which is described herein below. However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments a user may be utilizing a user device by way of example but not limitation if the user is accessing the user device if the user is interacting with the user device if the user is carrying the user device if the user is providing input to the user device if the user is receiving output from the user device if the user is directing operation of the user device some combination thereof or so forth. A user may correspond to a user device by way of example but not limitation if the user is an authorized user of the user device. However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments a user of a user device may comprise an authorized user of the user device if the user comprises by way of example but not limitation a true owner a manager an information technology IT specialist a controller a purchaser a lessee an approved borrower a primary user or a combination thereof etc. of the user device if the user is or has been authorized by a true owner a manager an IT specialist a controller a purchaser a lessee an approved borrower a primary user or a combination thereof etc. of the user device some combination thereof or so forth. In certain example implementations a determination that a user comprises e.g. is is becoming is being designated or a combination thereof etc. an authorized user of a user device may be effectuated if or when a user first registers a profile an account or a combination thereof etc. on a device e.g. after a purchase or a hard reset may be effectuated if or when one or more sign ins e.g. entry of a password code PIN pattern biometric input or a combination thereof etc. are performed by a user may be effectuated if or when one or more user ID secret information combinations e.g. entry of an account name email address individualized identification or a combination thereof etc. along with a corresponding password code PIN pattern biometric input or a combination thereof etc. are entered by a user may be effectuated if or when a given user is identified as designated as or otherwise indicated to comprise an authorized user by one who is already an authorized user some combination of such authorized user determinations or so forth. An authorized user may add a new authorized user by way of example only by providing a name or other identification of another user or his or her biometric information e.g. a facial photo a voice sample a fingerprint image a retinal scan or a combination thereof etc. by providing a name or other identification of a user or temporary or permanent secret information such as a password a code a PIN a pattern biometric input or a combination thereof etc. e.g. that a newly authorized user may be capable of changing or confirming some combination thereof or so forth. An authorized user such as a true owner or IT specialist may be empowered to remove someone from a list of authorized user s . In certain example embodiments different authorized users may have different levels of authorization e.g. different levels of access capabilities rights privileges or a combination thereof etc. with respect to a given user device . For certain example implementations but by way of example only one authorized user may comprise an administrator with full access rights or privileges yet another authorized user may comprise a regular non administrative or junior user with fewer access rights or privileges. Additionally or alternatively one authorized user may have full access rights to applications and content stored on a device or associated with a particular account profile yet another authorized user may have restricted access rights to applications or content stored on a device such that access is prevented for instance to particular device settings or adult content. Other approaches to providing different levels of authorization may also or instead be implemented. By way of example only an authorized user who is a true owner may add a new authorized user that is permitted to utilize existing applications and content but is prohibited from adding new applications or making particular purchases e.g. individual purchases above a predetermined dollar amount or multiple purchases beyond a total dollar amount .

For certain example embodiments a user may correspond to or be utilizing multiple user devices such as at least two of user device A user device B or user device C at least partially simultaneously or from time to time. By way of example only a user may own at least two of a mobile phone a tablet computer a vehicle with an intelligent computing apparatus a laptop computer or a desktop computer. For certain example implementations at least part of a combined behavioral fingerprint e.g. a behavioral fingerprint may be associated with a user and each corresponding user device . Additionally or alternatively an individualized behavioral fingerprint e.g. a behavioral fingerprint or a behavioral fingerprint may be associated with a user and each corresponding individual or respective user device . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments a behavioral fingerprint or an at least partially combined instantiation of at least two of a behavioral fingerprint or a portion of a behavioral fingerprint or or a combination thereof etc. may be distributed across or stored at by way of example only one or more of a user device A a user device B a user device C a network or node thereof a server device A a server device B some combination thereof or so forth. Additionally or alternatively a behavioral fingerprint or an at least partially combined instantiation of at least two of a behavioral fingerprint or a portion of a behavioral fingerprint or or a combination thereof etc. may be transmitted received exchanged or a combination thereof etc. by way of example only via one or more of at least one network one or more channels some combination thereof or so forth. A user device or a server device may transmit receive exchange or a combination thereof etc. at least a portion of a behavioral fingerprint or directly between or among devices or or indirectly via at least one node not explicitly shown of one or more networks . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments a given behavioral fingerprint or portion thereof may be located at stored at distributed at least partially across accessible from associated with or a combination thereof etc. one or more devices or . By way of example only a behavioral fingerprint may be located at a user device A a behavioral fingerprint may be located at a user device B a behavioral fingerprint may be located at a user device C a behavioral fingerprint may be located at a network e.g. at a cloud service or system a behavioral fingerprint may be located at a server device A or a behavioral fingerprint may be located at a server device B. For certain example implementations any one or more of behavioral fingerprints may include one or more separate or individualized behavioral fingerprints may include one or more combined amalgamated distributed or a combination thereof etc. behavioral fingerprints may include at least a portion of at least one behavioral fingerprint some combination thereof or so forth. However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments at least one behavioral fingerprint e.g. of behavioral fingerprints may be associated with at least one user or one or more of user devices A or C. For certain example implementations a behavioral fingerprint which may be stored at a user device A may be associated with a user and user device A. For certain example implementations a behavioral fingerprint which may be stored at a server device A may be associated with a user and a user device A. For certain example implementations a behavioral fingerprint which may be stored at a server device B may be associated with a user a user device B and a user device C. For certain example implementations a behavioral fingerprint which may be stored at a user device A and associated therewith and a behavioral fingerprint which may be stored at a user device B and associated therewith may be individually or jointly associated with a user . A behavioral fingerprint and a behavioral fingerprint may be identical to each other partially the same different from one another updated to keep one at least partially coherent or consistent with the other some combination thereof or so forth. For certain example implementations a behavioral fingerprint which may be stored at a user device B and associated therewith and a behavioral fingerprint which may be stored at a server device A and associated with a user device C may be individually or jointly associated with a user . A behavioral fingerprint and a behavioral fingerprint may be identical to each other partially the same different from one another updated to keep one at least partially coherent or consistent with the other some combination thereof or so forth. For certain example implementations a behavioral fingerprint which may be stored at a user device C and associated therewith and a behavioral fingerprint which may be stored at a server device and also associated with user device C may be individually or jointly associated with a user . A behavioral fingerprint and a behavioral fingerprint may be identical to each other partially the same different from one another updated to keep one at least partially coherent or consistent with the other some combination thereof or so forth. For certain example implementations a behavioral fingerprint which may be stored at a user device C may be associated with a user and a user device . Although each user device and server device and network is shown in schematic diagram B as having a behavioral fingerprint located there at one or more user devices or server devices or networks may alternatively not have a behavioral fingerprint located there at. Furthermore other additional or alternative approaches may instead be implemented.

For certain example embodiments a behavioral fingerprint including but not limited to any one or more of behavioral fingerprints may include a whole behavioral fingerprint a portion of a behavioral fingerprint a behavioral fingerprint associated with a single user device a behavioral fingerprint associated with multiple user devices a part of a distributed behavioral fingerprint a whole behavioral fingerprint that is distributed across multiple devices a portion or a whole behavioral fingerprint that is located at one device one or more indicators of one or more behavior related acts some combination thereof or so forth. Examples of behavioral fingerprint s are described further herein below with particular reference to . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments one or more user interface actions may include but are not limited to a type of user interaction e.g. buttons keys physical keyboard touch screen swipes virtual buttons virtual keyboard multi finger touch speech textual movement sensing input such as a shake or a twist or a combination thereof etc. a speed of user interaction e.g. speech rate speech cadence typing speed swiping speed scrolling speed speed moving between or among windows or apps duration of a swipe or press of a virtual or physical key or button or a combination thereof etc. a user input apparatus e.g. a built in microphone a wireless microphone a built in keyboard a virtual keyboard a detachable attachable keyboard a wireless keyboard an input apparatus identifiable such as by name or number or a combination thereof etc. a position of user interaction e.g. a location of touch for a touch sensitive screen having a keyboard or button or swipe area a location of a swipe a length of a swipe an offset from a designated key or slide area or a combination thereof etc. a user output apparatus e.g. a screen a built in speaker a separate speaker a vibration unit an integrated output apparatus a wired output apparatus a wireless output apparatus an output apparatus identifiable such as by name or number or a combination thereof etc. some combination thereof or so forth. However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments one or more user movements may include but are not limited to device orientation e.g. cardinal direction a device is pointed at angle a device is held at or a combination thereof etc. device shakes or deformations e.g. how a device is moved to provide input how a device is pressed or twisted or curved to provide input or a combination thereof etc. a pattern of vibrations or jostling applied to or experienced by a device during daily use e.g. as a result of carrying it commuting with it placing it in a pack or purse placing it in a pocket or a combination thereof etc. some combination thereof or so forth. However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments one or more locations visited may include but are not limited to locations that a user carries sends places or travels with a device locations that a user directs software to acquire data from or send data to some combination thereof or so forth. For certain example implementations physical locations visited may include but are not limited to an address a room a store a building a neighborhood a city a state a country one or more satellite positioning system SPS coordinates a check in location a business one or more geographical e.g. cardinal coordinates a geographical zone e.g. coordinates or approximate position in conjunction with a distance or range some combination thereof or so forth. For certain example implementations virtual locations visited may include but are not limited to an internet address a web page a web site a social network a destination within a social network a virtual world a destination within a virtual world a chat room a bulletin board a blog some combination thereof or so forth. However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments one or more social network interactions may include but are not limited to accessing a social network reading a communication from one or more social network members sending a communication to one or more social network members changing profile or account information for a social network viewing publicly available social network information e.g. viewing a person s wall board stream pinning or a combination thereof etc. viewing private social network information e.g. viewing a targeted or personalized message tweet picture or a combination thereof etc. searching for entities on a social network playing games via a social network experiencing entertainment e.g. video audio clips pictures or a combination thereof etc. via a social network a listing of which social network s are accessed an order of which social networks are accessed a day or time of accessing particular social network s some combination thereof or so forth. For certain example implementations social network member interactions may include but are not limited to identifying or listing members interacted with via receiving retrieving sending replying to or a combination thereof etc. one or more communications noting particular social network protocols or modes e.g. wall writing or viewing tweet sending or receiving picture sending or viewing public versus private communicating or a combination thereof etc. used to communicate with particular members individually or in groups noting particular social network protocols or modes used to communicate with particular member groups some combination thereof or so forth. For certain example implementations social network message interactions may include but are not limited to noting e.g. recording memorializing storing identifying or a combination thereof etc. messages sent or received noting an order of message sending or viewing noting a type e.g. a social network protocol of message sent or received noting a number of messages sent or received noting a duration between arrival of a message e.g. generally or from a particular member and viewing of the message noting a duration between arrival or viewing of a message e.g. generally or from a particular member and responding to the message some combination thereof or so forth. However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments one or more communication modes employed may include but are not limited to speech a phone call a voice over internet protocol VoIP communication text messaging instant messaging a video communication e.g. a video call a video conference or a combination thereof etc. a social network based communication e.g. a communication that is effectuated at least partially using a social network app web site service or a combination thereof etc. some combination thereof or so forth. Additionally or alternatively one or more communication modes employed may include but are not limited to indicators of which communication mode is employed if when responding to a received communication of a given communication mode e.g. it may be noted that an authorized user may respond to most phone calls or phone calls from particular people with text messages . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments one or more entity interactions may include but are not limited to identification of at least one entity e.g. business service person social network member group organization or a combination thereof etc. that a user interacts with e.g. with or without an indicator of a communication mode such as via a telephone capability via email via instant messaging via a social network communication protocol via VoIP via a video capability via a speech capability or a combination thereof etc. a listing of entities interacted with an order of entities interacted with notations of when e.g. a day a time days of week or a combination thereof etc. entities are interacted with notations of how e.g. a communication mode used a duration or a combination thereof etc. entities are interacted with some combination thereof or so forth. However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments one or more apps employed may include but are not limited to identification of one or more apps e.g. applications native applications downloaded applications installed applications software applications web applications or a combination thereof etc. employed e.g. accessed started opened launched viewed consulted manipulated configured installed executed or a combination thereof etc. by a user a listing of apps employed an order of apps employed a notation of a time or a day at which apps are employed a notation of duration s for which apps are employed some combination thereof or so forth. However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments one or more transactions conducted may include but are not limited to an identification of transactions e.g. exchanges of consideration purchases orders downloads or a combination thereof etc. conducted e.g. initiated requested consummated effectuated accomplished monitored or a combination thereof etc. a list of transactions a notation of times or days of transactions a notation of transaction amounts a notation of at least one party to one or more transactions a notation of items e.g. physical items such as food or electronics virtual items such as songs or movies or games or in game abilities or a combination thereof etc. or services e.g. physical services such as a massage or a car wash virtual services such as streaming media or a membership or a combination thereof etc. involved in one or more transactions some combination thereof or so forth. However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments one or more user statuses may include but are not limited to a location status update a health status update an alert e.g. as to whether a person has possession or has lost possession of a device as to whether a device has exceeded some percentage e.g. 50 or 75 or 100 of an allotted amount such as of minutes of talking bytes of data messages of texting dollars of a fund time of use etc. as to where a person is currently located a combination thereof etc. a current e.g. most recent present or a combination thereof etc. activity update some combination thereof or so forth. However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments one or more other acts may include but are not limited to other user behaviors user habits user actions user movements user interactions user visitations user transactions device features e.g. capabilities native applications operating system functions or a combination thereof etc. employed or a combination thereof etc. that a device may monitor e.g. detect observe discern ascertain or a combination thereof etc. other acts reflecting user behavior other acts described herein some combination thereof or so forth. However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments one or more predicted acts may include but are not limited to an act that is predicted based at least partially on any one or more of other indicators an act that is predicted to be performed by an authorized user an act corresponding to a particular likelihood level of re occurring an act that is predicted to re occur in view of one or more observed acts of at least one authorized user of one or more user devices an act that is predicted to occur based at least partially on a statistical analysis e.g. a likelihood function a histogram evaluation a probabilistic approach a Bayesian analysis a stochastic mechanism a correlation procedure a probability density function a normal Gaussian distribution a cumulative distribution function an expected value or a combination thereof etc. of one or more historically monitored acts an act that has been repeatedly performed in certain manner s or at particular time s such that it can be expected to be performed again in such certain manner s or at such particular time s an act that is derived or results from a conversion of monitored act s corresponding to one device to at least one act corresponding to another device some combination thereof or so forth. However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments one or more other indicators may include but are not limited to static characteristics of an authorized user individuals that are related to an authorized user characteristics of individuals that are related to an authorized user nature of relationships between or among an authorized user and other individuals some combination thereof or so forth. Non exhaustive examples of other indicators are provided herein below with particular reference to or A. However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments a user device may include or comprise at least one electronic device. User device may include for example a computing platform or any electronic device having at least one processor or memory. Processor may include by way of example but not limitation any one or more of a general purpose processor a specific purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP a processing unit some combination thereof or so forth. A processing unit may be implemented for example with one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors generally processing cores discrete fixed logic circuitry controllers micro controllers microprocessors some combination thereof or so forth. Media may bear store contain include provide access to or a combination thereof etc. instructions which may be executable by a processor at least one behavioral fingerprint one or more settings parameters some combination thereof or so forth. Instructions may include or comprise by way of example but not limitation a program a module an application or app e.g. that is native that runs in a browser that runs within a virtual machine or a combination thereof etc. an operating system or a combination thereof etc. or portion thereof operational data structures source code object code just in time JIT compiled code or a combination thereof etc. processor executable instructions other code some combination thereof or so forth. Media may include by way of example but not limitation processor accessible or non transitory media e.g. memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory hard drives disk based media disc based media magnetic storage optical storage volatile memory nonvolatile memory or a combination thereof etc. that is capable of bearing instructions a behavioral fingerprint settings parameters some combination thereof or so forth.

For certain example embodiments execution of instructions by one or more processors may transform user device into a special purpose computing device apparatus platform machine some combination thereof or so forth. Instructions may include for example instructions that are capable of realizing at least a portion of one or more flow diagrams methods processes procedures operations functionality technology mechanisms or a combination thereof etc. that are described herein or illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Settings parameters may include by way of example but not limitation one or more settings or parameters that may be established or determined by a user or other entity one or more or settings or parameters that may be determined or detected by a user device one or more settings or parameters that may be received from another device that determined or detected them one or more settings or parameters that may determine at least partly how a user device is to operate or respond to a situation or a behavioral fingerprint one or more settings or parameters e.g. values that may be used to realize flow diagrams methods processes procedures operations functionality technology mechanisms or a combination thereof etc. that are described herein or illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Settings parameters may control at least partially how at least one behavioral fingerprint is configured stored shared used applied some combination thereof or so forth. Additionally or alternatively at least a portion of settings parameters may be at least partially integrated with at least one behavioral fingerprint .

For certain example embodiments logic may include hardware software firmware discrete fixed logic circuitry or a combination thereof etc. that is capable of performing or facilitating performance of flow diagrams methods processes procedures operations functionality technology mechanisms or a combination thereof etc. that are described herein or illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Circuitry may include hardware software firmware discrete fixed logic circuitry or a combination thereof etc. that is capable of performing or facilitating performance of flow diagrams methods processes procedures operations functionality technology mechanisms or a combination thereof etc. that are described herein or illustrated in the accompanying drawings wherein circuitry includes at least one physical or hardware component or aspect.

For certain example embodiments one or more communication interfaces may provide one or more interfaces between user device and another device or a person operator. With respect to a person operator a communication interface may include by way of example but not limitation a screen a speaker a keyboard or keys a microphone or other person device input output apparatuses. A wireless communication interface or a wired communication interface may also or alternatively include by way of example but not limitation a transceiver e.g. a transmitter or a receiver a radio an antenna a wired interface connector or other similar apparatus e.g. a network connector a universal serial bus USB connector a proprietary connector a Thunderbolt or Light Peak connector or a combination thereof etc. a physical or logical network adapter or port a frequency converter a baseband processor or a combination thereof etc. to communicate wireless signals or wired signals via one or more wireless communication links or wired communication links respectively such as over at least one channel e.g. of . Communications with at least one communication interface may enable transmitting receiving or initiating of transmissions just to name a few examples.

For certain example embodiments at least one interconnect may enable signal communication between or among components of user device . Interconnect may include by way of example but not limitation one or more buses channels switching fabrics some combination thereof or so forth. Although not explicitly illustrated in one or more components of user device may be coupled to interconnect via a discrete or integrated interface. By way of example only one or more interfaces may couple a communication interface or a processor to at least one interconnect . For certain example embodiments at least one power source may provide power to one or more components of user device . Power source may include by way of example but not limitation a battery a power connector a solar power source or charger a mechanical power source or charger a fuel source some combination thereof or so forth.

For certain example embodiments at least one sensor may sense produce or otherwise provide at least one sensor value. Sensors may include by way of example only a camera a microphone an accelerometer a thermometer a satellite positioning system SPS sensor a barometer a humidity sensor a compass a gyroscope a magnetometer a pressure sensor an oscillation detector a light sensor an inertial measurement unit IMU a tactile sensor a touch sensor a flexibility sensor a microelectromechanical system MEMS some combination thereof or so forth. Values provided by at least one sensor may include by way of example but not limitation an image a sound recording an acceleration value a temperature SPS coordinates a barometric pressure a humidity level a compass direction a gyroscopic value a magnetic reading a pressure value an oscillation value an ambient light reading inertial readings touch detections finger placements flex detections some combination thereof or so forth.

For certain example embodiments a user interface may enable one or more users to interact with user device . Interactions between a user and a user device may relate by way of example but not limitation to touch tactile feeling haptic sensory e.g. a user may shake rotate decline incline bend twist or move a user device which may be detected by a gyroscope an accelerometer a compass or a combination thereof etc. a user may press a button slide a switch rotate a knob etc. a user may touch a touch sensitive screen a device may vibrate some combination thereof or so forth to sound hearing speech sensory e.g. a user may speak into a microphone a device may generate sounds via a speaker or a combination thereof etc. to sights vision sensory e.g. a device may activate one or more lights modify an image presented on a display screen or a combination thereof etc. some combination thereof or so forth.

For certain example embodiments a user interface may include a user input interface a user output interface some combination thereof or so forth. A user input interface may include by way of example but not limitation a microphone a button a switch a dial a knob a wheel a trackball a key a keypad a keyboard a touch sensitive screen a touch sensitive surface a camera a gyroscope an accelerometer a compass a virtual button slider keyboard etc. presented on a touch sensitive screen some combination thereof or so forth. A user output interface may include by way of example but not limitation a speaker a screen e.g. with or without touch sensitivity a vibrating haptic feature some combination thereof or so forth. Certain user interfaces may enable both user input and user output. For example a touch sensitive screen may be capable of providing user output and accepting user input. Additionally or alternatively a user interface component e.g. that may be integrated with or separate from a user device such as a headset that has a microphone and a speaker may enable both user input and user output.

However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples or so forth. For instance it should be understood that for certain example implementations components that are illustrated separately in may not necessarily be separate or mutually exclusive. For example a given component may provide multiple functionalities. By way of example only a single component such as a USB connector may function as a wired communication interface or a power source . Additionally or alternatively a single component such as a display screen may function as a communication interface with respect to a user as a user input interface or as a user output interface . Additionally or alternatively one or more instructions may function to realize at least part of a behavioral fingerprint or at least one setting or parameter .

It should also be understood that for certain example implementations components that are illustrated in schematic diagram or described herein may or may not be integral with or integrated into a user device . For example a component may be removably connected to a user device a component may be wirelessly coupled to a user device some combination thereof or so forth. By way of example only instructions may be stored on a removable card having at least one medium . Additionally or alternatively a user interface e.g. a wired or wireless headset a screen a video camera a keyboard or a combination thereof etc. may be coupled to a user device wirelessly or by wire. However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments a server device may include or comprise at least one processing or computing device or machine. Server device may include or comprise for example a computing platform or any electronic device or devices having at least one processor or memory. Processor may include by way of example but not limitation any one or more of a general purpose processor a specific purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP a processing unit some combination thereof or so forth. A processing unit may be implemented for example with one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors generally processing cores discrete fixed logic circuitry controllers micro controllers microprocessors some combination thereof or so forth. Media may bear store contain include provide access to or a combination thereof etc. instructions which may be executable by a processor at least one behavioral fingerprint one or more settings parameters some combination thereof or so forth. Instructions may include or comprise by way of example but not limitation a program a module an application or app e.g. that is native that runs in a browser that runs within a virtual machine or server or a combination thereof etc. an operating system or a combination thereof etc. or portion thereof operational data structures source code object code just in time JIT compiled code or a combination thereof etc. processor executable instructions other code some combination thereof or so forth. Media may include by way of example but not limitation processor accessible or non transitory media e.g. memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory hard drives disk based media disc based media magnetic storage optical storage volatile memory nonvolatile memory or a combination thereof etc. that is capable of bearing instructions at least one behavioral fingerprint settings parameters some combination thereof or so forth.

For certain example embodiments execution of instructions by one or more processors may transform server device into a special purpose computing device apparatus platform machine some combination thereof or so forth. Instructions may include for example instructions that are capable of realizing at least a portion of one or more flow diagrams methods processes procedures operations functionality technology mechanisms or a combination thereof etc. that are described herein or illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Settings parameters may include by way of example but not limitation one or more settings or parameters that may be established by a user or other entity one or more settings or parameters that may be determined by a server device one or more settings or parameters that may be determined by a user or other entity one or more settings or parameters that may be detected by a server device one or more settings or parameters that may be received from another device that detected them one or more settings or parameters that may determine at least partly how a server device is to operate or respond to a situation or a behavioral fingerprint one or more settings or parameters e.g. values that may be used to realize flow diagrams methods processes procedures operations functionality technology mechanisms or a combination thereof etc. that are described herein or illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Settings parameters may control at least partially how at least one behavioral fingerprint is configured stored shared used applied some combination thereof or so forth. Additionally or alternatively at least a portion of settings parameters may be at least partially integrated with at least one behavioral fingerprint .

For certain example embodiments logic may include hardware software firmware discrete fixed logic circuitry or a combination thereof etc. that is capable of performing or facilitating performance of flow diagrams methods processes procedures operations functionality technology mechanisms or a combination thereof etc. that are described herein or illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Circuitry may include hardware software firmware discrete fixed logic circuitry or a combination thereof etc. that is capable of performing or facilitating performance of flow diagrams methods processes procedures operations functionality technology mechanisms or a combination thereof etc. that are described herein or illustrated in the accompanying drawings wherein circuitry includes at least one physical or hardware component or aspect.

For certain example embodiments one or more communication interfaces may provide one or more interfaces between server device and another device or a person operator entity directly or indirectly. A wireless communication interface or a wired communication interface may also or alternatively include by way of example but not limitation a transceiver e.g. a transmitter or a receiver a radio an antenna a wired interface connector or other similar apparatus e.g. a network connector a universal serial bus USB connector a proprietary connector a Thunderbolt or Light Peak connector a gateway or a combination thereof etc. a physical or logical network adapter or port a frequency converter a baseband processor an internet or telecommunications backbone connector a fiber optic connector a storage area network SAN connector or a combination thereof etc. to communicate wireless signals or wired signals via one or more wireless communication links or wired communication links respectively such as over one or more channels e.g. of . Communications with at least one communication interface may enable transmitting receiving or initiating of transmissions just to name a few examples.

For certain example embodiments at least one interconnect may enable signal communication between or among components of server device . Interconnect may include by way of example but not limitation one or more buses channels switching fabrics local area networks LANs storage area networks SANs some combination thereof or so forth. Although not explicitly illustrated in one or more components of server device may be coupled to interconnect via a discrete or integrated interface. By way of example only one or more interfaces may couple a processor or a medium to at least one interconnect . For certain example embodiments at least one power source may provide power to one or more components of server device . Power source may include by way of example but not limitation a power connector for accessing an electrical grid a fuel cell a solar power source some combination thereof or so forth.

For certain example embodiments an entity interface may enable one or more entities e.g. another device a person a group a robotic entity or a combination thereof etc. to provide input to or receive output from server device . Interactions between an entity and a device may relate by way of example but not limitation to inputting or outputting instructions commands settings parameters indications or indicators some combination thereof or so forth. Certain entity interfaces may enable both entity input and entity output at server device or over at least one network link such as one or more channels e.g. of .

However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples or so forth. For instance it should be understood that for certain example implementations components that are illustrated separately in need not necessarily be separate or mutually exclusive. For example a given component may provide multiple functionalities. By way of example only hard wired logic may form circuitry . Additionally or alternatively a single component such as a connector may function as a communication interface or as an entity interface . Additionally or alternatively one or more instructions may function to realize at least one setting or parameter .

It should also be understood that for certain example implementations components that are illustrated in schematic diagram or described herein may not be integral or integrated with a server device . For example a component may be removably connected to a server device a component may be wirelessly coupled to a server device one or more components of a server device may be geographically distributed or separated from one another some combination thereof or so forth. By way of example only instructions may be stored on one medium and settings parameters or another portion of instructions may be stored on a different medium which may include a same server or a part of a different server of e.g. a server farm. Additionally or alternatively respective processor media sets may be physically realized on different or respective server blades or server containers. Multiple server blades for instance may be linked or interlinked to realize at least one server device . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments a module may include or be comprised of at least one processor e.g. a processor of a processor of or a combination thereof etc. one or more media e.g. a medium of a media medium of or a combination thereof etc. executable instructions e.g. processor executable instructions instructions of instructions of computer implementable instructions or a combination thereof etc. logic e.g. logic of logic of or a combination thereof etc. circuitry e.g. circuitry of circuitry of or a combination thereof etc. other described or illustrated component s some combination thereof or so forth. For certain example implementations one or more modules e.g. an authentication module an authorization module a behavioral fingerprint module or a combination thereof etc. of at least one user device may function or interoperate with one or more modules of at least one server device . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments an authentication module may operate to authenticate a user of a device. For certain example implementations a user of a device may be authenticated by determining to some e.g. reasonable acceptable measurable quantifiable or a combination thereof etc. degree an identity of a user. By way of example but not limitation an authentication module may enable implementation of multiple degrees of authentication with different degrees of authentication corresponding to different levels of certainty of an identity of a user. Example aspects related to authentication are described further herein e.g. at least herein above with particular reference to . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments an authorization module may operate to permit or enable full or at least partial access to use of implementation of execution of or a combination thereof etc. one or more features applications accounts profiles data capabilities or a combination thereof etc. of at least one device such as a user device or a server device . For certain example implementations authorization may be fully or at least partially granted denied withheld or a combination thereof etc. based at least partially on an authentication determination a result from an authentication module some combination thereof or so forth. By way of example but not limitation an authorization module may provide for different levels of authorization including but not limited to those for a given authorized user that correspond to different degrees of authentication that correspond to different user identities some combination thereof or so forth. Example aspects related to authorization are described further herein e.g. at least herein above with particular reference to . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments a behavioral fingerprint module may operate to implement perform facilitate performance of or a combination thereof etc. one or more flow diagrams methods processes procedures operations functionality technology modules mechanisms or a combination thereof etc. that are described herein or illustrated in the accompanying drawings or that relate to at least one behavioral fingerprint. For certain example implementations a behavioral fingerprint module may provide information monitored acts likelihood values determinations comparisons analyses indications or indicators predicted acts or a combination thereof etc. to an authentication module on which it may at least partially base an authentication determination. Example aspects related to behavioral fingerprinting are described further herein above and below. However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments an interaction related communication module or an interaction related administration module may be implemented separately or at least partially jointly or in combination. For certain example implementations an interaction related communication module may be configured to communicate for at least one interaction related to a user of a user device in a behavioral fingerprint habitat. For certain example implementations an interaction related administration module may be configured to administer at least an aspect of at least one interaction related to a user of a user device in a behavioral fingerprint habitat. However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

As shown in by way of example but not limitation schematic diagram B may include at least one user device at least one user at least one behavioral fingerprint at least one server device at least one communication at least one interaction at least one behavioral fingerprint habitat or at least one administration . For certain example embodiments a communication may comprise or include an incoming communication an outgoing communication an intra device communication an inter device communication an internal communication within a company an external communication to outside of a company a transmission a reception a signaling an intra cloud communication an inter cloud communication or a combination thereof etc. that is effectuated or facilitated or performed at least partially using or with or via at least one server device . For certain example embodiments an administration may comprise or include a management a supervision a providing of a response to an implementing an application of a being in charge of a use of a making application of a handling of a cataloging of coordinating a continuation of initiating a cessation or change regarding or a combination thereof etc. that is effectuated or facilitated or performed at least partially using or with or via at least one server device . For alternative embodiments a communication and an administration may be effectuated or facilitated or performed at least partially using or with or via at least one user device e.g. with a social networking app that is resident thereon . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments an interaction may comprise or include a direct or indirect interaction between or among at least one user device and at least one user . Examples of interactions may include by way of example but not limitation a user interface manipulation of a user device by a user an in person purchase made by a user via a user device an internet purchase or order made by a user with a user device an indoor or an outdoor navigation by a user with a user device monitoring of a user by a user device providing information to a user by a user device providing input to a user device by a user carrying a user device by a user communicating with others by a user via a user device monitoring a social network stream or newsfeed or viewing a social network timeline of a user with a user device a user device providing social network messages to a user any one or more acts having a nexus between a user and a user device as described herein above with particular reference to or a combination thereof etc. For certain example embodiments behavioral fingerprint habitat may comprise or include an environment at least one network at least one user device at least one server device an application programming interface API a web service a cloud computing platform or a combination thereof etc. in conjunction with at least a portion of a behavioral fingerprint or a distributed implementation of at least one behavioral fingerprint e.g. as described herein including by way of example but not limitation herein above with particular reference to or . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc. Additional or alternative description that may be relevant to schematic diagram B is provided herein below with particular reference to one or more of any of or .

As shown in by way of example but not limitation schematic diagram C may include at least one user device at least one user at least one behavioral fingerprint at least one server device at least one communication at least one interaction at least one behavioral fingerprint habitat at least one administration at least one social network at least one cloud at least one other device or at least one utilization indicator . More specifically for certain example embodiments schematic diagram C may include a user device that may correspond to a user which user may be a current user or may include or comprise an authorized user or an unauthorized user of a user device a server device which may operate within or as part of a cloud or may operate as part of or on behalf of a social network . For certain example implementations a cloud may include at least a portion of a server device one or more server devices a provider or utilizer of a cloud service a provider or utilizer of cloud computing a combination thereof or so forth. For certain example embodiments a behavioral fingerprint may include one or more utilization indicators . For certain example implementations at least one utilization indicator may include or comprise at least one indicator of any of indicators e.g. of . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments a server device may be operated by or for a social network or other third party service provider . A social network may include by way of example but not imitation a service a physical network a communication layer of a network an internet location a website a computing infrastructure one or more servers an application an interface cloud computing or a combination thereof etc. that enables or facilitates interaction e.g. via text images audio video or a combination thereof etc. between or among two or more members of a social network. The term social in social network should not be interpreted to exclude networks designed or intended for professional or specific purposes. Examples of social networks may include but are not limited to Facebook Google Twitter LinkedIn Myspace Pinterest Classmates dot com Flickr Foursquare Friendster LiveJournal Meetup Netlog Orkut Sina Weibo Qzone Habbo Instagram or so forth. However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments an other device may be operated or owned by a user of a user device may be operated or owned by a service provider may be operated or owned by a social network may be operated or owned by a third party may be operated or owned by a retail establishment such as by a proprietor or corporate owner thereof may be operated or owned by an entity affiliated with a server device may be operated by one of the above and owned by another or so forth. For certain example implementations other device may be communicatively coupled to a user device a server device a combination thereof or so forth. By way of example but not limitation other device may be integrated with a user device may be physically connected to a user device may be wirelessly coupled to a user device may be coupled by wire to a user device may be coupled by wire or wirelessly to a server device may be coupled to a user device or a server device via one or more networks some combination thereof or so forth. Other device may additionally or alternatively be capable of bidirectional or unidirectional communication with one or more servers e.g. of a cloud computing environment or via one or more channels e.g. of which channel s may include at least part of at least one network such as an internet . Other device may include or comprise at least a part of by way of example but not limitation a point of sale POS terminal such as a register an attachment augmenting a POS terminal an attachment to a user device a device that accepts credit debit or other payment cards and is coupled to a user device or a POS terminal a device that accepts or generates sensor readings and forwards them to a server a device that collects determines or forwards environmental parameter data a device that forwards other data collected or produced at a user device to a server a device that forwards other data collected or produced or provided by a server to a user device a combination thereof or so forth. Data e.g. relating to behavioral fingerprinting social networking retailing utilization indicators environmental parameters interactions or a combination thereof etc. may be collected at or by other device or funneled through other device between or among at least one user device or one or more server devices . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc. Additional or alternative description that may be relevant to schematic diagram C is provided herein below with particular reference to one or more of any of or .

As shown in by way of example but not limitation schematic diagram D may include at least one user device at least one user at least one behavioral fingerprint at least one server device at least one communication at least one interaction at least one behavioral fingerprint habitat at least one administration at least one social network at least one utilization indicator at least one characteristic at least one authentication likelihood at least one environmental parameter at least one event or at least one application programming interface API . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc. Additional or alternative description that may be relevant to schematic diagram D is provided herein below with particular reference to one or more of any of or .

As shown in by way of example but not limitation schematic diagram E may include at least one user device at least one user at least one behavioral fingerprint at least one server device at least one communication at least one interaction at least one behavioral fingerprint habitat at least one administration at least one social network at least one utilization indicator at least one behavioral fingerprint aggregator at least one request at least one social network member at least one verification inquiry or at least one social network communication . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc. Additional or alternative description that may be relevant to schematic diagram E is provided herein below with particular reference to one or more of any of or .

Following are a series of flowcharts depicting implementations. For ease of understanding the flowcharts are organized such that the initial flowcharts present implementations via an example implementation and thereafter the following flowcharts present alternate implementations and or expansions of the initial flowchart s as either sub component operations or additional component operations building on one or more earlier presented flowcharts. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that the style of presentation utilized herein e.g. beginning with a presentation of a flowchart s presenting an example implementation and thereafter providing additions to and or further details in subsequent flowcharts generally allows for a rapid and easy understanding of the various process implementations. In addition those skilled in the art will further appreciate that the style of presentation used herein also lends itself well to modular and or object oriented program design paradigms.

For certain example embodiments a method for behavioral fingerprinting with social networking e.g. that includes involves relates to is associated with or a combination thereof etc. at least one social network which method may be at least partially implemented using hardware e.g. circuitry at least one processor processor accessible memory or a combination thereof etc. such as that of a server device may include an operation or an operation . An operation may be directed at least partially to communicating for at least one interaction related to a user of a user device in a behavioral fingerprint habitat. For certain example implementations at least one device may communicate e.g. accept an incoming communication send an outgoing communication participate in an intra device communication participate in an inter device communication receive or transmit an internal communication within a company receive or transmit an external communication outside of a company make a transmission make a reception provide a signaling participate in an intra cloud communication participate in an inter cloud communication or a combination thereof etc. for at least one interaction e.g. a user interface manipulation of a user device by a user an in person purchase made by a user via a user device an internet purchase or order made by a user with a user device indoor or outdoor navigation by a user with a user device monitoring of a user by a user device providing information to a user by a user device providing input to a user device by a user carrying a user device by a user communicating with others by a user via a user device monitoring a social network stream or newsfeed or viewing a social network timeline of a user with a user device a user device providing social network messages to a user any one or more acts having a nexus between a user and a user device as described herein above with particular reference to or a combination thereof etc. related to e.g. including involving pertaining to affecting being affected by receiving input from presenting output to indicative of associated with corresponding to or a combination thereof etc. a user of a user device in a behavioral fingerprint habitat e.g. an environment at least one network at least one user device at least one server device an application programming interface API a web service a cloud computing platform or a combination thereof etc. in conjunction with at least a portion of a behavioral fingerprint or a distributed implementation of at least one behavioral fingerprint e.g. as described herein including by way of example but not limitation herein above with particular reference to or . By way of example but not limitation a server may communicate for at least one interaction related to a user of a user device in a behavioral fingerprint habitat e.g. a Facebook server having access to at least a portion of a behavioral fingerprint may receive a location of an Android smartphone along with an item for potential purchase by a user of the Android smartphone . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments an operation may be directed at least partially to administering at least an aspect of the at least one interaction related to the user of the user device in the behavioral fingerprint habitat. For certain example implementations at least one device may administer e.g. manage supervise provide a response to implement an application of be in charge of make use of apply handle catalog coordinate a continuation of initiate a cessation or change regarding or a combination thereof etc. at least an aspect e.g. an output an input data produced monitoring one or more variables a factor a parameter at least partially in control or a combination thereof etc. of at least one interaction related to a user of a user device in a behavioral fingerprint habitat . By way of example but not limitation a server may administer at least an aspect of the at least one interaction related to the user of the user device in the behavioral fingerprint habitat e.g. a Facebook server may obtain a likelihood that a user of an Android smartphone is an authorized user thereof based at least partially on a location of the Android smartphone and an item for potential purchase by the user of the Android smartphone in conjunction with at least a portion of a behavioral fingerprint associated with the Android smartphone . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments an operation may be directed at least partially to wherein the sending one or more obtained characteristics corresponding to the at least one interaction for incorporation into at least one behavioral fingerprint that is associated with the user device of operation includes obtaining the one or more obtained characteristics corresponding to the at least one interaction for incorporation into the at least one behavioral fingerprint from at least one social network application resident at the user device. For certain example implementations at least one device may obtain e.g. ascertain receive retrieve determine or a combination thereof etc. one or more obtained characteristics e.g. a description an identification a code a label an indicator or a combination thereof etc. corresponding to e.g. associated with related to descriptive of indicative of derived from pertaining to impacting or a combination thereof etc. at least one interaction for incorporation e.g. for adding integrating supplementing with updating using augmenting with replacing with modifying using adapting using deleting at least a portion of changing statistics using creating at least one new predicted act based at least partially on altering at least one existing predicted act based at least partially on increasing or decreasing a likelihood based at least partially on or a combination thereof etc. into at least one behavioral fingerprint from at least one social network application e.g. a native program a just in time compiled program a program running in a browser code a downloaded app a set of instructions or a combination thereof etc. facilitating use of or related to a social network resident at e.g. at least partially located at at least partially stored at at least partially executing on or a combination thereof etc. a user device . By way of example but not limitation a server may obtain the one or more obtained characteristics corresponding to the at least one interaction for incorporation into the at least one behavioral fingerprint from at least one social network application resident at the user device e.g. a server may receive from a Pinterest application on an HTC Windows Phone 8 a listing including at least a top three Pinterest boards visited each day by an authorized user of the HTC Windows Phone 8 . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments an operation may be directed at least partially to wherein the sending one or more obtained characteristics corresponding to the at least one interaction for incorporation into at least one behavioral fingerprint that is associated with the user device of operation includes obtaining the one or more obtained characteristics corresponding to the at least one interaction for incorporation into the at least one behavioral fingerprint from at least one retail establishment patronized via the user device. For certain example implementations at least one device may obtain e.g. ascertain receive retrieve determine or a combination thereof etc. one or more obtained characteristics e.g. a description an identification a code a label an indicator or a combination thereof etc. corresponding to e.g. associated with related to descriptive of indicative of derived from pertaining to impacting or a combination thereof etc. at least one interaction for incorporation e.g. for adding integrating supplementing with updating using augmenting with replacing with modifying using adapting using deleting at least a portion of changing statistics using creating at least one new predicted act based at least partially on altering at least one existing predicted act based at least partially on increasing or decreasing a likelihood based at least partially on or a combination thereof etc. into at least one behavioral fingerprint from at least one retail establishment e.g. a physical store a virtual store a website that sells goods or services a purveyor of goods a provider of services or a combination thereof etc. for at least one or more consumers patronized e.g. shopped at visited ordered from paid for goods or services or a combination thereof etc. via a user device . By way of example but not limitation a server may obtain the one or more obtained characteristics corresponding to the at least one interaction for incorporation into the at least one behavioral fingerprint from at least one retail establishment patronized via the user device e.g. a server operated by or for a social network may receive from a Walmart server at least a category indication such as sporting goods for kids of articles purchased using a cell phone in a Walmart store with the category indication to be added to a behavioral fingerprint . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments an operation may be directed at least partially to wherein the receiving at least a portion of at least one behavioral fingerprint that is associated with the user device at a server device that provides social networking functionality of operation includes forwarding the received at least a portion of the at least one behavioral fingerprint that is associated with the user device from the server device to the user device. For certain example implementations at least one device may forward e.g. transmit send after receiving provide to an entity scheduled to get updates or a combination thereof etc. a received at least a portion of at least one behavioral fingerprint that is associated with e.g. that can impact authentication or authorization decisions for that can be affected by interactions with corresponding to stored at or a combination thereof etc. a user device from a server device to a user device . By way of example but not limitation a server may forward the received at least a portion of the at least one behavioral fingerprint that is associated with the user device from the server device to the user device e.g. a Google server may send indications of items purchased using a Nexus Android smartphone with the indications being received from retailers from which the items were purchased to the Nexus Android smartphone which may have a Google Wallet application resident thereon . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments an operation may be directed at least partially to wherein the communicating for at least one interaction related to a user of a user device in a behavioral fingerprint habitat of operation includes signaling an authentication likelihood corresponding to the user of the user device with respect to at least one authorized user of the user device. For certain example implementations at least one device may signal e.g. provide record broadcast transmit announce post publicize note or a combination thereof etc. an authentication likelihood e.g. a probability a result of a calculation such as a maximum likelihood estimation a numerical value a coefficient a machine learning product a probability distribution a Bayesian derived output or a combination thereof etc. indicating at least one likelihood that a current user is at least likely who the user purports to be is at least likely an authorized user of a user device is at least likely to be a person that is currently signed into a user device or a combination thereof etc. corresponding to e.g. associated with related to representative of indicative of derived from pertaining to impacting or a combination thereof etc. a user of a user device with respect to at least one authorized user e.g. a user that is authorized to use a given user device to at least some extent a user that is associated with a behavioral fingerprint corresponding to a given user device an owner of a given user device or a combination thereof etc. of a user device . By way of example but not limitation a server may signal an authentication likelihood corresponding to the user of the user device with respect to at least one authorized user of the user device e.g. a Google server may provide an indication such as very likely or moderately likely that represents how likely a current user of a Samsung Galaxy phone is to be a known authorized user of the Samsung Galaxy phone . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments an operation or may be directed at least partially to wherein the signaling an authentication likelihood corresponding to the user of the user device with respect to at least one authorized user of the user device of operation includes computing the authentication likelihood corresponding to the user of the user device with respect to the at least one authorized user of the user device for operation and transmitting from a server device that provides social networking features the authentication likelihood corresponding to the user of the user device with respect to the at least one authorized user of the user device to a third party server device for operation . For certain example implementations at least one device may compute e.g. determine calculate perform at least one routine to ascertain or a combination thereof etc. an authentication likelihood e.g. a probability a result of a calculation such as a maximum likelihood estimation a numerical value a coefficient a machine learning product a probability distribution a Bayesian derived output or a combination thereof etc. indicating at least one likelihood that a current user is at least likely who the user purports to be is at least likely an authorized user of a user device is at least likely to be a person that is currently signed into a user device or a combination thereof etc. corresponding to e.g. associated with related to representative of indicative of derived from pertaining to impacting or a combination thereof etc. a user of a user device with respect to at least one authorized user of a user device e.g. a user that is authorized to use a given user device to at least some extent a user that is associated with a behavioral fingerprint corresponding to a given user device an owner of a given user device or a combination thereof etc. or transmit e.g. send propagate over a network using electromagnetic signals propel onto the internet or a combination thereof etc. from a server device that provides social networking features e.g. provides access to newsfeeds enables messages to be exchanged between or among social network members facilitates exchanging information within social network circles or a combination thereof etc. an authentication likelihood corresponding to a user of a user device with respect to at least one authorized user of a user device to a third party server device e.g. a server device that is not owned by a social network a server device that is not operated for a social network a server device owned by or operated for a retail establishment a server device owned by or operated for a security company or a combination thereof etc. . By way of example but not limitation a server may compute the authentication likelihood corresponding to the user of the user device with respect to the at least one authorized user of the user device e.g. a Google server may calculate a probability indication such as a probability distribution that represents how likely a current user of a Samsung Galaxy phone is to be a known authorized user of the Samsung Galaxy phone or transmit from a server device that provides social networking features the authentication likelihood corresponding to the user of the user device with respect to the at least one authorized user of the user device to a third party server device e.g. a Google server may transmit a probability distribution which represents how likely a current user of a Samsung Galaxy phone is to be a known authorized user of the Samsung Galaxy phone to a server operated by or for another company such as a small independent retail establishment that participates in Google offers . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments an operation may be directed at least partially to wherein the communicating for at least one interaction related to a user of a user device in a behavioral fingerprint habitat of operation includes receiving a request for social network member verification. For certain example implementations at least one device may receive e.g. accept as part of one or more packets acquire via an electromagnetic communication process a signal pertaining to take delivery of or a combination thereof etc. a request e.g. an inquiry a code a petition a solicitation or a combination thereof etc. for social network member verification e.g. confirmation at least one indicia of reliability an opinion or a combination thereof etc. that an alleged represented or assumed identity of an individual is likely to be the alleged represented or assumed individual that is a member of a social network . By way of example but not limitation a server may receive a request for social network member verification e.g. a Google server may receive an inquiry from a Costco server asking the Google server to verify an identity of a current user of an Android smartphone by sending inquiries to at least two people in a family circle of an authorized user of the Android smartphone . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments an operation may be directed at least partially to wherein the communicating for at least one interaction related to a user of a user device in a behavioral fingerprint habitat of operation includes receiving from a third party server at a social network server a request for verification of a targeted social network member. For certain example implementations at least one device may receive e.g. accept as part of one or more packets acquire via an electromagnetic communication process a signal pertaining to take delivery of or a combination thereof etc. from a third party server e.g. a server device that does not provide social networking a server that is owned by or operated on behalf of a different company a server that does not maintain or does not utilize a behavioral fingerprint or a combination thereof etc. at a social network server e.g. a server device that provides social networking a server owned by or operated for a social network a server that facilitates communication between or among two or more social network members a server device that provides information for or receives information from a web or app interface for a social network or a combination thereof etc. a request e.g. an inquiry a code a petition a solicitation or a combination thereof etc. for verification e.g. confirmation at least one indicia of reliability an opinion or a combination thereof etc. that an alleged represented or assumed identity of an individual is likely to be the alleged represented or assumed individual of a targeted social network member e.g. a name an identification a listing or a combination thereof etc. of a person that has joined a social network an entity having a social network account an individual that communicates with other social network participants or a combination thereof etc. . By way of example but not limitation a social network server may receive from a third party server a request for verification of a targeted social network member e.g. a Twitter server may receive a petition from a McAfee server asking Twitter to attempt to verify that a possessor of a Nokia Lumia smartphone matches an identity of a named Twitter follower . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments an operation may be directed at least partially to wherein the communicating for at least one interaction related to a user of a user device in a behavioral fingerprint habitat of operation includes sending at least one verification inquiry to at least one social network member that is connected to a targeted social network member. For certain example implementations at least one device may send e.g. transmit provide a link or reference or code to retrieve forward or a combination thereof etc. at least one verification inquiry e.g. an email a text message an instant message a phone call a video call an attachment such as text or imagery to a communication a request to confirm identity a request to confirm likelihood a request to confirm location a request to confirm knowledge or a combination thereof etc. to at least one social network member e.g. a person that has joined a social network an entity having a social network account an individual that communicates with other social network participants or a combination thereof etc. that is connected to e.g. accessible by followed by a friend of linked to part of a circle with or a combination thereof etc. a targeted social network member e.g. a name an identification a listing or a combination thereof etc. of a person that has joined a social network an entity having a social network account an individual that communicates with other social network participants or a combination thereof etc. . By way of example but not limitation a server may send at least one verification inquiry to at least one social network member that is connected to a targeted social network member e.g. a Facebook server may send at least one inquiry to one or more friends of a particular Facebook member asking the one or more friends to confirm if they know that the particular Facebook member who uses an Apple iPhone is likely traveling in South America . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments an operation may be directed at least partially to wherein the communicating for at least one interaction related to a user of a user device in a behavioral fingerprint habitat of operation includes receiving at least one response to at least one verification inquiry from at least one social network member that is connected to a targeted social network member. For certain example implementations at least one device may receive e.g. accept as part of one or more packets acquire via an electromagnetic communication process a signal pertaining to take delivery of or a combination thereof etc. at least one response e.g. an answer an indication a confirmation a refutation a clarification or a combination thereof etc. to at least one verification inquiry e.g. an email a text message an instant message a phone call a video call an attachment such as text or imagery to a communication a request to confirm identity a request to confirm likelihood a request to confirm location a request to confirm knowledge or a combination thereof etc. from at least one social network member e.g. a person that has joined a social network an entity having a social network account an individual that communicates with other social network participants or a combination thereof etc. that is connected to e.g. accessible by followed by a friend of linked to part of a circle with or a combination thereof etc. a targeted social network member e.g. a name an identification a listing or a combination thereof etc. of a person that has joined a social network an entity having a social network account an individual that communicates with other social network participants or a combination thereof etc. . By way of example but not limitation a server may receive at least one response to at least one verification inquiry from at least one social network member that is connected to a targeted social network member e.g. a Facebook server may receive from multiple friends of a particular Facebook member four confirmations and two denials about whether the multiple friends know whether the particular Facebook member who uses an Apple iPhone is known to be traveling in South America . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments an operation may be directed at least partially to wherein the communicating for at least one interaction related to a user of a user device in a behavioral fingerprint habitat of operation includes sending at least an indication of at least one response received for at least one verification inquiry from at least one social network member that is connected to a targeted social network member. For certain example implementations at least one device may send e.g. transmit provide a link or reference or code to retrieve forward or a combination thereof etc. at least an indication e.g. a summary a description a reproduction or a combination thereof etc. of at least one response e.g. an answer an indication a confirmation a refutation a clarification or a combination thereof etc. received for at least one verification inquiry e.g. an email a text message an instant message a phone call a video call an attachment such as text or imagery to a communication a request to confirm identity a request to confirm likelihood a request to confirm location a request to confirm knowledge or a combination thereof etc. from at least one social network member e.g. a person that has joined a social network an entity having a social network account an individual that communicates with other social network participants or a combination thereof etc. that is connected to e.g. accessible by followed by a friend of linked to part of a circle with or a combination thereof etc. a targeted social network member e.g. a name an identification a listing or a combination thereof etc. of a person that has joined a social network an entity having a social network account an individual that communicates with other social network participants or a combination thereof etc. . By way of example but not limitation a server may send at least an indication of at least one response received for at least one verification inquiry from at least one social network member that is connected to a targeted social network member e.g. a Facebook server may inform a Visa server that of responding social network friends of a particular Facebook member indicated that the particular Facebook member who uses an Apple iPhone while traveling was expected to be traveling in South America . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments an operation may be directed at least partially to wherein the causing the user device to ask the user a question having at least one answer that is ascertainable from at least one behavioral fingerprint that is associated with the user device of operation includes causing the user device to display at least a portion of at least one map and to indicate to the user that an identified location is to be selected. For certain example implementations at least one device may cause e.g. order start initiate compel induce instruct command or a combination thereof etc. a user device to display e.g. request place on a screen project activate pixels or a combination thereof etc. at least a portion of at least one map e.g. a street view of an area a drawing of roads a satellite image an indoor map an outdoor map or a combination thereof etc. and to indicate e.g. describe instruct present words visually or aurally or a combination thereof etc. to a user that an identified location e.g. a pin point an encircled area an address an arrow a block or zone of multiple identifiable blocks or zones or a combination thereof etc. is to be selected e.g. pressed on a screen have an indicator thereof vocalized entered on a physical or virtual keyboard point or shake a device or a combination thereof etc. . By way of example but not limitation a server may cause the user device to display at least a portion of at least one map and to indicate to the user that an identified location is to be selected e.g. a Foursquare server may instruct a behavioral fingerprint oriented automated authentication program on an LG Android phone to display four mapped locations and ask the user to select a location that represents a work address for an authorized user . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments an operation may be directed at least partially to wherein the causing the user device to ask the user a question having at least one answer that is ascertainable from at least one behavioral fingerprint that is associated with the user device of operation includes causing the user device to ask the user to name one or more people that have been contacted via the user device. For certain example implementations at least one device may cause e.g. order start initiate compel induce instruct command or a combination thereof etc. a user device to ask e.g. request present display play on a speaker or a combination thereof etc. a user to name e.g. identify select from among options enter an actual name or a combination thereof etc. one or more people that have been contacted e.g. called texted instant messaged social network messaged or posted video or text messaged through a proprietary interface such as Apple s iMessage or a combination thereof etc. via user device . By way of example but not limitation a server may cause the user device to ask the user to name one or more people that have been contacted via the user device e.g. a MySpace server may send a text message to a feature phone asking a current user to reply with names of two of the last five people that were contacted with a voice or text communication via the feature phone . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments an operation may be directed at least partially to wherein the causing the user device to ask the user a question having at least one answer that is ascertainable from at least one behavioral fingerprint that is associated with the user device of operation includes causing the user device to ask the user to identify a destination for a most recent social network message sent from the user device. For certain example implementations at least one device may cause e.g. order start initiate compel induce instruct command or a combination thereof etc. a user device to ask e.g. request present display play on a speaker or a combination thereof etc. a user to identify e.g. select from between or among presented options enter unilaterally type via a physical or virtual keyboard or a combination thereof etc. a destination e.g. a person s name a group s title a handle an alias an image of an individual or a combination thereof etc. for a most recent social network message e.g. a public message a private message a posting a textual communication an aural or video communication or a combination thereof etc. sent from user device . By way of example but not limitation a server may cause the user device to ask the user to identify a destination for a most recent social network message sent from the user device e.g. a LinkedIn server may ask a current user of a Kindle Fire to enter a name or alias of a LinkedIn member to whom a message was most recently sent via a LinkedIn app on the Kindle Fire with the most recent LinkedIn member stored in a behavioral fingerprint for the Kindle Fire or an authorized user thereof . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments an operation may be directed at least partially to wherein the causing the user device to ask the user a question having at least one answer that is ascertainable from at least one behavioral fingerprint that is associated with the user device of operation includes causing the user device to ask the user to select a picture of a social network member that has been most frequently communicated with via the social networking. For certain example implementations at least one device may cause e.g. order start initiate compel induce instruct command or a combination thereof etc. a user device to ask e.g. present display play on a speaker or a combination thereof etc. a user to select e.g. indicate from between or among multiple options press a screen portion displaying enter a letter representing a choice from multiple choices or a combination thereof etc. a picture e.g. a photograph a headshot an avatar an image or a combination thereof etc. of a social network member e.g. a person having a social network account an individual registered with a social network a group or other entity that participates in social networking or a combination thereof etc. that has been most frequently e.g. greatest number of times most commonly within a particular time frame or a combination thereof etc. communicated with via social networking. By way of example but not limitation a server may cause the user device to ask the user to select a picture of a social network member that was most frequently communicated with via the social networking e.g. an Instagram server may contact an Instagram app on an Apple iPhone and command it to display four pictures of Instagram members and to ask a current user of the iPhone to touch a picture of the four pictures with the picture to be touched representing an Instagram member to which an authorized user of the iPhone most frequently sends communications . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments an operation may be directed at least partially to wherein the memorializing one or more factors affecting an analysis of the user of the user device with regard to authenticity of operation includes memorializing one or more utilization indicators of at least one behavioral fingerprint that is associated with the user device. For certain example implementations at least one device may memorialize e.g. store note forward transmit formulate for archiving or a combination thereof etc. one or more utilization indicators e.g. a label a categorization a code a tag an assignment one or more words a description an association an act a prediction or a combination thereof etc. that represents embodies describes suggests or a combination thereof etc. at least one utilization e.g. accessing using interacting with carrying moving from place to place providing input to receiving output from communicating with running apps on requesting or completing or effecting transactions via directing operation of or a combination thereof etc. of a user device of at least one behavioral fingerprint that is associated with e.g. linked to affecting the capabilities of at least partially controlling having indicator s that are capable of being modified responsive to use of stored at associated with an account corresponding to associated with an authorized user of or a combination thereof etc. a user device . By way of example but not limitation a server may memorialize one or more utilization indicators of at least one behavioral fingerprint that is associated with the user device e.g. a Google server may transmit representations of user interface actions with a Google Nexus tablet for a behavioral fingerprint thereof that led to a determination that a current user is sufficiently authenticated to permit the current user to read an authorized user s email . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments an operation may be directed at least partially to wherein the memorializing one or more factors affecting an analysis of the user of the user device with regard to authenticity of operation includes memorializing at least one environmental parameter relating to an event to potentially occur in conjunction with the user device. For certain example implementations at least one device may memorialize e.g. store note forward transmit formulate for archiving or a combination thereof etc. at least one environmental parameter e.g. a value a parameter an indication of surroundings a description a financial valuation a security level a location proximate other user devices or a combination thereof etc. relating to e.g. associated with corresponding to descriptive of indicative of pertaining to or a combination thereof etc. an event e.g. a happening an action an occurrence an exchange a purchase an accessing an unlocking a meeting a usage a transfer a communication or a combination thereof etc. to potentially occur e.g. to possibly happen to conditionally transpire to occur upon approval to develop if permitted to involve an analysis to continue if not blocked or a combination thereof etc. in conjunction with e.g. along with as requested by as facilitated by via at least partially using involving or a combination thereof etc. a user device . By way of example but not limitation a server may memorialize at least one environmental parameter relating to an event to potentially occur in conjunction with the user device e.g. a LinkedIn server may package for archiving i an item that a user of an Apple iPhone attempted to purchase using the Apple iPhone ii a location of a store of a failed purchase attempt and iii a route the iPhone was taken on to reach the store location if the user of the iPhone is not determined to be sufficiently authentic to permit the item purchase with an automated authentication determination . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments an operation may be directed at least partially to wherein the memorializing one or more factors affecting an analysis of the user of the user device with regard to authenticity of operation includes memorializing at least one result of one or more comparisons of i one or more utilization indicators of at least one behavioral fingerprint that is associated with the user device and ii at least one environmental parameter relating to an event to potentially occur in conjunction with the user device. For certain example implementations at least one device may memorialize e.g. store note forward transmit formulate for archiving or a combination thereof etc. at least one result e.g. an output a difference a similarity a representation of overlapping or mutually exclusive aspects a value a code a designation or a combination thereof etc. of one or more comparisons e.g. a determination of one or more similarities or differences an ascertainment of coextensive aspects a drawing of contrasts an establishing of a correlation a weighing or balancing or a combination thereof etc. of i one or more utilization indicators e.g. a label a categorization a code a tag an assignment one or more words a description an association an act a prediction or a combination thereof etc. that represents embodies describes suggests or a combination thereof etc. at least one utilization e.g. accessing using interacting with carrying moving from place to place providing input to receiving output from communicating with running apps on requesting or completing or effecting transactions via directing operation of or a combination thereof etc. of a user device of at least one behavioral fingerprint that is associated with e.g. linked to affecting the capabilities of at least partially controlling having indicator s that are capable of being modified responsive to use of stored at associated with an account corresponding to associated with an authorized user of or a combination thereof etc. a user device and ii at least one environmental parameter e.g. a value a parameter an indication of surroundings a description a financial valuation a security level a location proximate other user devices or a combination thereof etc. relating to e.g. associated with corresponding to descriptive of indicative of pertaining to or a combination thereof etc. an event e.g. a happening an action an occurrence an exchange a purchase an accessing an unlocking a meeting a usage a transfer a communication or a combination thereof etc. to potentially occur e.g. to possibly happen to conditionally transpire to occur upon approval to develop if permitted to involve an analysis to continue if not blocked or a combination thereof etc. in conjunction with e.g. along with as requested by as facilitated by via at least partially using involving or a combination thereof etc. a user device . By way of example but not limitation a server may memorialize at least one result of one or more comparisons of i one or more utilization indicators of at least one behavioral fingerprint that is associated with the user device and ii at least one environmental parameter relating to an event to potentially occur in conjunction with the user device e.g. an Instagram server may store actual values of or relative indications of similarities or differences between i a typical time a usual location and a common mode of accessing such as desktop versus phone versus tablet or web browser versus social network app or particular web browser choice an authorized user s social network account and ii a respective current time current location and current mode of a request to access the authorized user s social network account by a current user of an Apple iMac desktop computer . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments an operation may be directed at least partially to wherein the consulting a behavioral fingerprint that is associated with at least one of the user device or the user prior to forwarding a social network communication arriving from the user device of operation includes conditioning a posting of the social network communication at least partially on at least one comparison including one or more utilization indicators of the behavioral fingerprint and a content of the social network communication. For certain example implementations at least one device may condition e.g. make contingent make at least partially dependent cause to be affected or impacted by render it at least partially based on or a combination thereof etc. a posting e.g. an action of making text accessible an action of making a picture or video visible an instruction to publicize a communication enabling a communication to be placed on a wall or newsfeed or stream an act of sending a tweet an act of pinning an item an act of sharing a picture or a combination thereof etc. of a social network communication e.g. a message a post a tweet a pinning an email or instant message sent via a social network interface a voice or video communication transmitted via social networking infrastructure a picture or other image or a combination thereof etc. at least partially on at least one comparison e.g. a determination of one or more similarities a determination of one or more differences an ascertainment of coextensive aspects a drawing of contrasts an establishing of a correlation a weighing or balancing between or among or a combination thereof etc. including one or more utilization indicators of a behavioral fingerprint and a content e.g. words sentences text grammar images recognizable items in pictures or other images identifiable aspects of videos or a combination thereof etc. of social network communication . By way of example but not limitation a server may condition a posting of the social network communication at least partially on at least one comparison including one or more utilization indicators of the behavioral fingerprint and a content of the social network communication e.g. a Pinterest server may delay or prevent a submitted item from being pinned if it deviates sufficiently from a historical trend of items uploaded by a user of a Samsung Galaxy Android smartphone as determinable from a behavioral fingerprint associated therewith such as if a submitted picture includes humans revealing a high percentage of flesh when consultation of the behavioral fingerprint indicates that a user typically uploads images of culinary dishes . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments an operation may be directed at least partially to wherein the consulting a behavioral fingerprint that is associated with at least one of the user device or the user prior to forwarding a social network communication arriving from the user device of operation includes conditioning a messaging of the social network communication at least partially on at least one comparison including one or more utilization indicators of the behavioral fingerprint and a message destination of the social network communication. For certain example implementations at least one device may condition e.g. make contingent make at least partially dependent cause to be affected or impacted by render it at least partially based on or a combination thereof etc. a messaging e.g. a private communication a communication with enumerated destinations a communication that is to be accessible by a determinable set of social network members or a combination thereof etc. of a social network communication e.g. a message a post a tweet a pinning an email or instant message sent via a social network interface a voice or video communication transmitted via social networking infrastructure or a combination thereof etc. at least partially on at least one comparison e.g. a determination of one or more similarities a determination of one or more differences an ascertainment of coextensive aspects a drawing of contrasts an establishing of a correlation a weighing or balancing between or among or a combination thereof etc. including one or more utilization indicators of a behavioral fingerprint and a message destination e.g. an identified friend a named circle an email address an alias finite number of followers or a combination thereof etc. of social network communication . By way of example but not limitation a server may condition a messaging of the social network communication at least partially on at least one comparison including one or more utilization indicators of the behavioral fingerprint and a message destination of the social network communication e.g. a Google server may at least temporarily block delivery of a Google message sent from an Android Nexus tablet at 1 am to a destination that has not been sent a message in six months or that is on a user provided do not send list in accordance with at least one indicator of a behavioral fingerprint that is associated with the Android Nexus tablet . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments an operation may be directed at least partially to wherein the consulting a behavioral fingerprint that is associated with at least one of the user device or the user prior to forwarding a social network communication arriving from the user device of operation includes analyzing the social network communication in relation to a readability level corresponding to the behavioral fingerprint prior to forwarding the social network communication. For certain example implementations at least one device may analyze e.g. study compare a probabilistically examine inspect counterweighting variables or factors or a combination thereof etc. a social network communication e.g. a message a post a tweet a pinning an email or instant message sent via a social network interface a voice or video communication transmitted via social networking infrastructure or a combination thereof etc. in relation to a readability level e.g. an indication of writing style an indication of target audience a score a reading ease score a grade level indication a Dale Chall formula score a value on a lexile scale or a combination thereof etc. corresponding to e.g. stored as part of reflected by indicated in referenced by or a combination thereof etc. a behavioral fingerprint prior to forwarding e.g. sending transmitting posting messaging presenting to a destination or a combination thereof etc. social network communication . By way of example but not limitation a server may analyze the social network communication in relation to a readability level corresponding to the behavioral fingerprint prior to forwarding the social network communication e.g. a Facebook server may refuse to post a communication submitted from an HTC Windows Phone 8 smartphone without an affirmative authentication if a readability level of the submitted communication is significantly below or above a typical readability level of postings submitted from the HTC Windows Phone 8 smartphone as evidenced by an average readability level score included as part of a behavioral fingerprint associated with an authorized user of the HTC Windows Phone 8 smartphone . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments an operation may be directed at least partially to wherein the consulting a behavioral fingerprint that is associated with at least one of the user device or the user prior to forwarding a social network communication arriving from the user device of operation includes forwarding the social network communication arriving from the user device at least partially contingent on an analysis including at least one characterization of grammar corresponding to the behavioral fingerprint and at least part of a content of the social network communication. For certain example implementations at least one device may forward e.g. send transmit post message present to a destination enable a destination to access or a combination thereof etc. a social network communication e.g. a message a post a tweet a pinning an email or instant message sent via a social network interface a voice or video communication transmitted via social networking infrastructure or a combination thereof etc. arriving from e.g. received from acquired via originated at approved using formulated or prepared utilizing or a combination thereof etc. a user device at least partially contingent on e.g. conditional upon dependent on affected or impacted by gated based on potentially permitted to occur or continue based on a result of or a combination thereof etc. an analysis e.g. a study a comparison a probabilistic examination a consideration of counterweighting variables or factors or a combination thereof etc. including at least one characterization of grammar e.g. punctuation capitalization subject verb agreement spelling pronoun usage general number agreement fragments verb phrases noun phrases grammar style misused words or a combination thereof etc. corresponding to behavioral fingerprint and at least part of a content e.g. words sentences text grammar images recognizable items in pictures or other images identifiable aspects of videos or a combination thereof etc. of social network communication . By way of example but not limitation a server may forward the social network communication arriving from the user device at least partially contingent on an analysis including at least one characterization of grammar corresponding to the behavioral fingerprint and at least part of a content of the social network communication e.g. a Facebook server may permit a submitted communication from a social network member s iPhone to post to a given wall only if text of the submitted communication has a grammar level or score that meets or exceeds a grammar level or score of a behavioral fingerprint that is associated with the iPhone or an authorized user thereof . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments an operation may be directed at least partially to wherein the exposing at least one application programming interface that enables a third party to participate in the behavioral fingerprint habitat via at least one social networking server of operation includes exposing at least one application programming interface that enables a third party to provide one or more characteristics for at least one utilization indicator of at least one behavioral fingerprint that is associated with the user device via the at least one social networking server. For certain example implementations at least one device may expose e.g. make available to those external to a company publicize create instantiate on an internet available server provide as a web service produce via cloud computing or a combination thereof etc. at least one application programming interface API e.g. a web service a cloud computing platform a programming environment code or functionality or modules to enable software components to communicate with each other or a combination thereof etc. that enables a third party e.g. an entity that does not provide the API a company that did not create the API a company that does not maintain the API infrastructure an entity that is not providing social networking functionality or a combination thereof etc. to provide e.g. submit send in report upload or a combination thereof etc. one or more characteristics e.g. a description an identification a code a label an actual or preliminary indicator or a combination thereof etc. which may correspond to e.g. be associated with be related to be descriptive of be indicative of be derived from pertain to impact or a combination thereof etc. at least one interaction for at least one utilization indicator e.g. a label a categorization a code a tag an assignment one or more words a description an association an act a prediction or a combination thereof etc. that represents embodies describes suggests or a combination thereof etc. at least one utilization e.g. accessing using interacting with carrying moving from place to place providing input to receiving output from communicating with running apps on requesting or completing or effecting transactions via directing operation of or a combination thereof etc. of a user device of at least one behavioral fingerprint that is associated with e.g. linked to affecting the capabilities of at least partially controlling having indicator s that are capable of being modified responsive to use of stored at associated with an account corresponding to associated with an authorized user of or a combination thereof etc. a user device via at least one social networking server e.g. a server device that is part of a social network a server that provides social network functionality a server that facilitates communication between or among social network members a server that provides updates to or receives posts or messages from a client side social network application or a combination thereof etc. . By way of example but not limitation a server may expose at least one application programming interface API that enables a third party to provide one or more characteristics for at least one utilization indicator of at least one behavioral fingerprint that is associated with the user device via the at least one social networking server e.g. a Google server may publicly present a set of programming instructions or constructs or input capabilities so that a retail company is empowered to submit for incorporation into a behavioral fingerprint of an authorized user of a Google Nexus smartphone a description of a transaction between the authorized user and the retail company . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

For certain example embodiments an operation may be directed at least partially to wherein the exposing at least one application programming interface that enables a third party to participate in the behavioral fingerprint habitat via at least one social networking server of operation includes exposing at least one application programming interface that enables a third party to retrieve at least one utilization indicator of at least one behavioral fingerprint that is associated with the user device via the at least one social networking server. For certain example implementations at least one device may expose e.g. make available to those external to a company publicize create instantiate on an internet available server provide as a web service produce via cloud computing or a combination thereof etc. at least one application programming interface API e.g. a web service a cloud computing platform a programming environment code or functionality or modules to enable software components to communicate with each other or a combination thereof etc. that enables a third party e.g. an entity that does not provide the API a company that did not create the API a company that does not maintain the API infrastructure an entity that is not providing social networking functionality or a combination thereof etc. to retrieve e.g. acquire by asking ascertain by requesting contemporaneously or previously download or a combination thereof etc. at least one utilization indicator e.g. a label a categorization a code a tag an assignment one or more words a description an association an act a prediction or a combination thereof etc. that represents embodies describes suggests or a combination thereof etc. at least one utilization e.g. an accessing a using an interacting with a carrying a moving from place to place a providing input to a receiving output from a communicating with a running of apps on a requesting or completing or effecting transactions via a directing operation of or a combination thereof etc. of a user device of at least one behavioral fingerprint that is associated with e.g. linked to affecting the capabilities of at least partially controlling having indicator s that are capable of being modified responsive to use of stored at associated with an account corresponding to associated with an authorized user of or a combination thereof etc. a user device via at least one social networking server e.g. a server device that is part of a social network a server that provides social network functionality a server that facilitates communication between or among social network members a server that provides updates to or receives posts or messages from a client side social network application or a combination thereof etc. . By way of example but not limitation a server may expose at least one application programming interface API that enables a third party to retrieve at least one utilization indicator of at least one behavioral fingerprint that is associated with the user device via the at least one social networking server e.g. a Twitter server may provide a web service that an operating system of a tablet computer may utilize to acquire one or more identifications of people that an authorized user of the tablet computer follows . However claimed subject matter is not limited to any particular described embodiments implementations examples etc.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the foregoing specific exemplary processes and or devices and or technologies are representative of more general processes and or devices and or technologies taught elsewhere herein such as in the claims filed herewith and or elsewhere in the present application.

Those having skill in the art will recognize that the state of the art has progressed to the point where there is little distinction left between hardware software and or firmware implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware software and or firmware is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that there are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle alternatively if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware. Hence there are several possible vehicles by which the processes and or devices and or other technologies described herein may be effected none of which is inherently superior to the other in that any vehicle to be utilized is a choice dependent upon the context in which the vehicle will be deployed and the specific concerns e.g. speed flexibility or predictability of the implementer any of which may vary. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will typically employ optically oriented hardware software and or firmware.

In some implementations described herein logic and similar implementations may include software or other control structures. Electronic circuitry for example may have one or more paths of electrical current constructed and arranged to implement various functions as described herein. In some implementations one or more media may be configured to bear a device detectable implementation when such media hold or transmit device detectable instructions operable to perform as described herein. In some variants for example implementations may include an update or modification of existing software or firmware or of gate arrays or programmable hardware such as by performing a reception of or a transmission of one or more instructions in relation to one or more operations described herein. Alternatively or additionally in some variants an implementation may include special purpose hardware software firmware components and or general purpose components executing or otherwise invoking special purpose components. Specifications or other implementations may be transmitted by one or more instances of tangible transmission media as described herein optionally by packet transmission or otherwise by passing through distributed media at various times.

Alternatively or additionally implementations may include executing a special purpose instruction sequence or invoking circuitry for enabling triggering coordinating requesting or otherwise causing one or more occurrences of virtually any functional operations described herein. In some variants operational or other logical descriptions herein may be expressed as source code and compiled or otherwise invoked as an executable instruction sequence. In some contexts for example implementations may be provided in whole or in part by source code such as C or other code sequences. In other implementations source or other code implementation using commercially available and or techniques in the art may be compiled implemented translated converted into a high level descriptor language e.g. initially implementing described technologies in C or C programming language and thereafter converting the programming language implementation into a logic synthesizable language implementation a hardware description language implementation a hardware design simulation implementation and or other such similar mode s of expression . For example some or all of a logical expression e.g. computer programming language implementation may be manifested as a Verilog type hardware description e.g. via Hardware Description Language HDL and or Very High Speed Integrated Circuit Hardware Descriptor Language VHDL or other circuitry model which may then be used to create a physical implementation having hardware e.g. an Application Specific Integrated Circuit . Those skilled in the art will recognize how to obtain configure and optimize suitable transmission or computational elements material supplies actuators or other structures in light of these teachings.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. In one embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented in integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disk DVD a digital tape a computer memory etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link e.g. transmitter receiver transmission logic reception logic etc. etc. .

In a general sense those skilled in the art will recognize that the various aspects described herein which can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware and or any combination thereof can be viewed as being composed of various types of electrical circuitry. Consequently as used herein electrical circuitry includes but is not limited to electrical circuitry having at least one discrete electrical circuit electrical circuitry having at least one integrated circuit electrical circuitry having at least one application specific integrated circuit electrical circuitry forming a general purpose computing device configured by a computer program e.g. a general purpose computer configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein or a microprocessor configured by a computer program which at least partially carries out processes and or devices described herein electrical circuitry forming a memory device e.g. forms of memory e.g. random access flash read only etc. and or electrical circuitry forming a communications device e.g. a modem communications switch optical electrical equipment etc. . Those having skill in the art will recognize that the subject matter described herein may be implemented in an analog or digital fashion or some combination thereof.

Modules logic circuitry hardware and software combinations firmware or so forth may be realized or implemented as one or more general purpose processors one or more processing cores one or more special purpose processors one or more microprocessors at least one Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC at least one Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA at least one digital signal processor DSP some combination thereof or so forth that is executing or is configured to execute instructions a special purpose program an application software code some combination thereof or so forth as at least one special purpose computing apparatus or specific computing component. One or more modules logic or circuitry etc. may by way of example but not limitation be implemented using one processor or multiple processors that are configured to execute instructions e.g. sequentially in parallel at least partially overlapping in a time multiplexed fashion at least partially overlapping across multiple cores or a combination thereof etc. to perform a method or realize a particular computing machine. For example a first module may be embodied by a given processor executing a first set of instructions at or during a first time and a second module may be embodied by the same given processor executing a second set of instructions at or during a second time. Moreover the first and second times may be at least partially interleaved or overlapping such as in a multi threading pipelined or predictive processing environment. As an alternative example a first module may be embodied by a first processor executing a first set of instructions and a second module may be embodied by a second processor executing a second set of instructions. As another alternative example a particular module may be embodied partially by a first processor executing at least a portion of a particular set of instructions and embodied partially by a second processor executing at least a portion of the particular set of instructions. Other combinations of instructions a program an application software or code etc. in conjunction with at least one processor or other execution machinery may be utilized to realize one or more modules logic or circuitry etc. to implement any of the processing algorithms described herein.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into a data processing system. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device memory such as volatile or non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors or digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers graphical user interfaces and applications programs one or more interaction devices e.g. a touch pad a touch screen an antenna etc. and or control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing position and or velocity control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities . A data processing system may be implemented utilizing suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in data computing communication and or network computing communication systems.

For the purposes of this application cloud computing may be understood as described in the cloud computing literature. For example cloud computing may be methods and or systems for the delivery of computational capacity and or storage capacity as a service. The cloud may refer to one or more hardware and or software components that deliver or assist in the delivery of computational and or storage capacity including but not limited to one or more of a client an application a platform an infrastructure and or a server The cloud may refer to any of the hardware and or software associated with a client an application a platform an infrastructure and or a server. For example cloud and cloud computing may refer to one or more of a computer a processor a storage medium a router a switch a modem a virtual machine e.g. a virtual server a data center an operating system a middleware a firmware a hardware back end a software back end and or a software application. A cloud may refer to a private cloud a public cloud a hybrid cloud and or a community cloud. A cloud may be a shared pool of configurable computing resources which may be public private semi private distributable scaleable flexible temporary virtual and or physical. A cloud or cloud service may be delivered over one or more types of network e.g. a mobile communication network and the Internet.

As used in this application a cloud or a cloud service may include one or more of infrastructure as a service IaaS platform as a service PaaS software as a service SaaS and or desktop as a service DaaS . As a non exclusive example IaaS may include e.g. one or more virtual server instantiations that may start stop access and or configure virtual servers and or storage centers e.g. providing one or more processors storage space and or network resources on demand e.g. EMC and Rackspace . PaaS may include e.g. one or more software and or development tools hosted on an infrastructure e.g. a computing platform and or a solution stack from which the client can create software interfaces and applications e.g. Microsoft Azure . SaaS may include e.g. software hosted by a service provider and accessible over a network e.g. the software for the application and or the data associated with that software application may be kept on the network e.g. Google Apps SalesForce . DaaS may include e.g. providing desktop applications data and or services for the user over a network e.g. providing a multi application framework the applications in the framework the data associated with the applications and or services related to the applications and or the data over the network e.g. Citrix . The foregoing is intended to be exemplary of the types of systems and or methods referred to in this application as cloud or cloud computing and should not be considered complete or exhaustive.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to implement devices and or processes and or systems and thereafter use engineering and or other practices to integrate such implemented devices and or processes and or systems into more comprehensive devices and or processes and or systems. That is at least a portion of the devices and or processes and or systems described herein can be integrated into other devices and or processes and or systems via a reasonable amount of experimentation. Those having skill in the art will recognize that examples of such other devices and or processes and or systems might include as appropriate to context and application all or part of devices and or processes and or systems of a an air conveyance e.g. an airplane rocket helicopter etc. b a ground conveyance e.g. a car truck locomotive tank armored personnel carrier etc. c a building e.g. a home warehouse office etc. d an appliance e.g. a refrigerator a washing machine a dryer etc. e a communications system e.g. a networked system a telephone system a Voice over IP system etc. f a business entity e.g. an Internet Service Provider ISP entity such as Comcast Cable Qwest Southwestern Bell etc. or g a wired wireless services entity e.g. Sprint Cingular Nextel etc. etc.

In certain cases use of a system or method may occur in a territory even if components are located outside the territory. For example in a distributed computing context use of a distributed computing system may occur in a territory even though parts of the system may be located outside of the territory e.g. relay server processor signal bearing medium transmitting computer receiving computer etc. located outside the territory . A sale of a system or method may likewise occur in a territory even if components of the system or method are located and or used outside the territory. Further implementation of at least part of a system for performing a method in one territory does not preclude use of the system in another territory.

One skilled in the art will recognize that the herein described components e.g. operations devices objects and the discussion accompanying them are used as examples for the sake of conceptual clarity and that various configuration modifications are contemplated. Consequently as used herein the specific exemplars set forth and the accompanying discussion are intended to be representative of their more general classes. In general use of any specific exemplar is intended to be representative of its class and the non inclusion of specific components e.g. operations devices and objects should not be taken limiting.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations are not expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures may be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically interacting and or logically interactable components.

In some instances one or more components may be referred to herein as configured to configured by configurable to operable operative to adapted adaptable able to conformable conformed to etc. Those skilled in the art will recognize that such terms e.g. configured to can generally encompass active state components and or inactive state components and or standby state components unless context requires otherwise.

This application may make reference to one or more trademarks e.g. a word letter symbol or device adopted by one manufacturer or merchant and used to identify and distinguish his or her product from those of others. Trademark names used herein are set forth in such language that makes clear their identity that distinguishes them from common descriptive nouns that have fixed and definite meanings and in many if not all cases are accompanied by other specific identification using terms not covered by trademark. In addition trademark names used herein have meanings that are well known and defined in the literature and do not refer to products or compounds protected by trade secrets in order to divine their meaning. All trademarks referenced in this application are the property of their respective owners and the appearance of one or more trademarks in this application does not diminish or otherwise adversely affect the validity of the one or more trademarks. All trademarks registered or unregistered that appear in this application are assumed to include a proper trademark symbol e.g. the circle R or trade even when such trademark symbol does not explicitly appear next to the trademark. To the extent a trademark is used in a descriptive manner to refer to a product or process that trademark should be interpreted to represent the corresponding product or process as of the date of the filing of this patent application.

While particular aspects of the present subject matter described herein have been shown and described it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that based upon the teachings herein changes and modifications may be made without departing from the subject matter described herein and its broader aspects and therefore the appended claims are to encompass within their scope all such changes and modifications as are within the true spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to claims containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that typically a disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms unless context dictates otherwise. For example the phrase A or B will be typically understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

With respect to the appended claims those skilled in the art will appreciate that recited operations therein may generally be performed in any order. Also although various operational flows are presented in a sequence s it should be understood that the various operations may be performed in other orders than those which are illustrated or may be performed concurrently. Examples of such alternate orderings may include overlapping interleaved interrupted reordered incremental preparatory supplemental simultaneous reverse or other variant orderings unless context dictates otherwise. Furthermore terms like responsive to related to or other past tense adjectives are generally not intended to exclude such variants unless context dictates otherwise.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

