---

title: Capturing body movement related to a fixed coordinate system
abstract: Briefly, in accordance with one or more embodiments, a kinematic sensor may be carried by or on one or more body segments of a user to obtain one or more kinematic variables based at least in part on movement of the user with respect to a fixed, global reference system. The kinematic sensor comprises a tri-axial accelerometer sensor, a gyroscope sensor, and a magnetometer sensor to define the global reference system and to obtain kinematic data. The kinematic data may be transmitted via a wireless link to a remote information handling system or device, for example to monitor a health status of the user based at least in part on movement of the user with respect to the fixed, global reference system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08461999&OS=08461999&RS=08461999
owner: Intel-GE Care Innovations LLC
number: 08461999
owner_city: Roseville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120130
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 860 288 filed on Sep. 24 2007 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 8 120 498 on Feb. 21 2012 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Techniques have been developed for the measurement of foot orientation and position during the swing phase of gait using a tri axial accelerometer and gyroscope inertial monitoring units IMU placed on the foot however such work has been concerned primarily with foot movement in the medial lateral and cranial caudal direction during the swing phase and not with distance or the direction travelled. Other techniques for measuring stride length using a tri axial gyroscope accelerometer and magnetometer sensor configuration with one placed on the leg and another placed on the thigh to measure stride length however such a technique requires the length of both the upper leg and lower leg to be known.

It will be appreciated that for simplicity and or clarity of illustration elements illustrated in the figures have not necessarily been drawn to scale. For example the dimensions of some of the elements may be exaggerated relative to other elements for clarity. Further if considered appropriate reference numerals have been repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding and or analogous elements.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of claimed subject matter. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and or circuits have not been described in detail.

In the following description and or claims the terms coupled and or connected along with their derivatives may be used. In particular embodiments connected may be used to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical and or electrical contact with each other. Coupled may mean that two or more elements are in direct physical and or electrical contact. However coupled may also mean that two or more elements may not be in direct contact with each other but yet may still cooperate and or interact with each other. For example coupled may mean that two or more elements do not contact each other but are indirectly joined together via another element or intermediate elements. Finally the terms on overlying and over may be used in the following description and claims. On overlying and over may be used to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical contact with each other. However over may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other. For example over may mean that one element is above another element but not contact each other and may have another element or elements in between the two elements. Furthermore the term and or may mean and it may mean or it may mean exclusive or it may mean one it may mean some but not all it may mean neither and or it may mean both although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. In the following description and or claims the terms comprise and include along with their derivatives may be used and are intended as synonyms for each other.

Referring now to a diagram of a local area network disposed in a building such as a house to capture body movement related to a fixed coordinate system in accordance with one or more embodiments will be discussed. As shown in network may comprise a local area network LAN disposed in a building which may comprise for example a home or other structure that may have unique or nearly unique architectural features and or layout. For example building may comprise a kitchen area a dining room area a living room area and or a bedroom area. In one or more embodiments network may include information handling system that includes antenna to couple to one or more user sensors likewise having an antenna so that information handling system may communicate with one or more user sensors via wireless link . In one or more embodiments communication via wireless link on network may be in compliance with an Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE standard for example an IEEE 802.11 a b g n standard or the like. Alternatively communication via wireless link on network may be in compliance with a Bluetooth standard or an Ultra Wide Band UWB standard or the like and the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. In one or more embodiments user sensor may comprise at least a tri axial accelerometer sensor a gyroscope sensor and a magnetometer sensor. One or more such user sensors may be attached to one or more segments of the user for example a foot a calf and or a thigh of a user to obtain kinematic data due to the movement and or gait of the user as the user moves throughout building . By using such an arrangement of sensors in the one or more user sensors the relative position of one or more segments of the user with respect to a single fixed coordinate axis may be determined from which kinematic data such as gait parameters for example step width step length stride length and time and or speed of such movements may be determined for example to monitor the health condition of the user although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

In one or more embodiments network comprises a wireless system that is capable of avoiding impeding the natural motion of a user and is capable of capturing limb movement of the user independent of placement of the one or more user sensors and or orientation thereof. In one or more embodiments the variables of network are measured with respect to a fixed reference coordinate system for example as shown in and described with respect to below to implement gait capture via inertial and or magnetic sensors disposed in the one or more user sensors to determine gait parameters with respect to the fixed reference coordinate axis. Such an arrangement allows for the determination of step length and or step width of the user without the requiring additional sensors for measuring additional forces. An example fixed reference coordinate system is discussed with respect to below.

Referring now to a diagram of a global spatial reference system utilized to determine one or more measurements of a user in accordance with one or more embodiments will be discussed. In the study of kinematics a coordinate axis system can be either relative in which all coordinates are relative to an anatomical location which changes from segment to segment or global in which all coordinates are relative to an external spatial system. Variables such as displacement velocity acceleration and or angular measurements may also be relative or global. In one or more embodiments an analysis of movement of one segment relative to another which is utilized to determine step length and or step width by establishing a global spatial reference system as shown in .

A global spatial reference system in accordance with a recommendation of the Institute of Systems Biology ISB of Seattle Wash. USA is depicted in . Such a global spatial reference system is discussed in Winter D. A. Second Edition N.Y. Wiley 1990. According to such a convention angels in the sagittal plane are measured from zero degrees in the X direction with positive angles being counter clockwise. Similarly angels in the frontal plane are measured from zero degrees in the Y direction and increase positively counter clockwise and angles in the transverse plane are measured from zero degrees in the Z direction and increase positively counter clockwise. The center of all three axes defining origin optionally but not necessarily may be disposed at a center of mass CM of a user such that an orientation of user may be measured for example the position of the feet of the user in reference system . Examples of how the orientation and or position of user with respect to reference system are discussed with respect to B and C below.

Referring now to B and C diagrams of coordinate axes of a sensor orientation relative to a reference coordinate axes and position relative to a reference coordinate axis in accordance with one or more embodiments will be discussed. In one or more embodiments user sensor comprises one or more Inertial Monitoring Units IMU be disposed in and or on the body of user . Such an inertial monitoring unit comprises a self contained sensor unit consisting of a tri axial accelerometer gyroscope and or magnetometer sensor arrangement. User sensor is capable of transmitting real time clock RTC time stamped inertial data via wireless link from user sensor to information handling system which may be for example a local personal computer disposed in building . The inertial monitoring units are capable of measuring acceleration angular velocity and or direction with respect to a magnetic field vector in three dimensions Using such data the position and or orientation of given user sensor relative to a global reference system may be determined which thereby allows information handling system to determine the arrangement of the various user sensors relative to one another. Gait parameters for user describing acceleration velocity and or displacement can then be extracted using global referencing system . The timing of gait events may also be extracted from the real time clock time stamped data.

In one or more embodiments global reference system may be determined using data from the one or more user sensors . The reference coordinate axes in global referencing system may be established as follows. First user sensors are fixed to the segment and the orientation of the segment coordinate axis with respect to the coordinate axis of user sensor is determined using a simple two stage procedure as shown in . Then the orientation of the reference coordinate axis with respect to the coordinate axis of user sensor may be determined as follows as shown in . This involves determining the y axis as the unit vector in the opposite direction to gravity determining the x axis the cross product of the y axis and the magnetic field vector and determining the z axis from the cross product of the y axis and the x axis. Position vectors may be calculated from the double integration of the acceleration vector when the gravity vector is subtracted as shown in . When using inertial sensors such as user sensors to determine kinematic variables for gait analysis a reference coordinate axis is established from which the orientation and position of the segment may be determined.

The origin of the reference coordinate axis may be determined as the location of the origin of the coordinate axis of the tri axial sensor at the instance that the reference axis is defined for example the beginning of the period of interest. An initial step width of zero may be assumed from a starting position. Next the y axis of the reference coordinate axis may be defined. A tri axial accelerometer may be formed via three orthogonal measuring axes. A three dimensional acceleration vector may be obtained from a tri axial accelerometer. This acceleration vector may be measured by a tri axial accelerometer written in array format and may be given by the following equation Equation 1 

The y axis of the reference coordinate axis may be defined as a unit vector in the opposite direction to the gravity vector. From Equation 1 under static conditions that is no inertial acceleration the acceleration is given by Equation 1. Equation 2 defines the gravity vector 

During dynamic activity the tri axial rate gyroscope signal may be integrated to determine the change in orientation of a segment. Due to the non commutative behavior of rotational mathematics an integration technique known as strap down integration may be utilized. The gravity vector can thus be tracked during dynamic activity by mapping the vector determined by the accelerometers during static periods using the change in orientation determined using the gyroscopes. The direction of the gravity vector and hence the y axis of the reference coordinate axis can thus be determined through all of time Equation 3 

Next the x axis of the reference coordinate axis may be defined. A tri axial magnetometer may be formed by three orthogonal measuring axes. A three dimensional magnetic field vector may be obtained from a tri axial magnetometer. The magnetic field vector measured by a tri axial magnetometer written in array format is given as follows Equation 4 

The x axis of the reference coordinate axis is calculated as the normalized cross product of magnetic field vector and the y axis Equation 5 

Next the z axis of the reference coordinate axis may be defined. The z axis of the reference coordinate axis is easily determined from the cross product of the y axis and the x axis Equation 6 

Next the segment orientation within the reference coordinate axis may be defined. Once the three axes of the reference coordinate axis have been defined within the sensor coordinate axis its orientation with respect to the sensor coordinate axis R is given by Equation 8 

Next one or more kinematic variables may be determined. Once the orientation of the segment within the reference coordinate axis has been established all angular data may be calculated from the

Referring now to a diagram referencing locations of footfalls of a user to a fixed coordinate system in accordance with one or more embodiments will be discussed. In one or more embodiments the gait of user may be captured by relating kinematic user sensors to a global reference system without requiring the use of secondary data capture. In such an arrangement utilization of a global reference system enables the measurement of step length and step width between two feet of user and which further may be combined with the real time clock RTC time stamped data to calculate step time. Thus as shown in diagram of as user walks in a plane defined by X axis and Y axis of global reference system user sensors may capture the stride length of user which may be defined as the distance between two consecutive steps and of the same foot of user . Likewise user sensors may capture the step length of user which may be defined distance between two consecutive steps and of opposite feet of user measured in the direction of movement of user . In addition user sensors may capture the step width of user which may be defined as the distance between two consecutive steps and of opposite feet of user measured in a direction generally normal to the direction of movement of user . The captured stride length data and or the captured step length data may be combined with RTC time data to determine the speed and or velocity of movement of user . Such an arrangement may be utilized to determine the position and orientation of the foot shank thigh segment of user . In one or more embodiments user sensor may comprise a tri axial accelerometer gyroscope and or magnetometer arrangement attached to one or more segments of interest for example a foot of user a thigh of user and so on. The arrangement of user sensors and information handling system provides the ability to determine relative position of the segments of user with respect to a single reference coordinate axis . Such an arrangement allows for the determination of critical gait parameters such as step width and step length which in addition to step time were previously incapable of being undetermined using inertial motion unit sensors although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

By monitoring the movement of user as described the health of user may be monitored for example via software running on information handling system and or running on a remote device coupled to information handling system via a network such as the Internet. Likewise a healthcare professional is capable of monitoring the health of user by observing real time or near real time movement and or gait data captured by user sensors and or information handling system . Alternatively such movement and or gait data may be batched and stored in one or more user sensors information handling system or a remote device coupled to information handling system via a network and periodically or occasionally monitored by the healthcare professional. In the event an anomaly in the movement and or gait of user is observed or detected appropriate action may be taken if needed although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. In one or more embodiments one or more of user sensor and or information handling system may comprise a platform architecture at least in part as shown in and described with respect to below.

Referring now to a flow diagram of a method to capture body movement related to a fixed coordinate system in accordance with one or more embodiments will be discussed. Method as shown in may include more or fewer blocks than shown in and furthermore the blocks of method may be arranged in various orders and the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. In one or more embodiments the origin of global reference system may be defined at block as an initial origin of a tri axial accelerometer sensor of user sensor . Next the Y axis of global reference system may be determined at block as a unit vector in a direction opposite to the direction of gravity as measured by the tri axial accelerometer sensor of user sensor . The X axis may then be determined at block as a cross product of the Y axis and a magnetic filed vector as measured by a magnetometer sensor disposed in user sensor . The Z axis may then be determined at block from the cross product of the X axis and the Y axis. Once the global reference system is defined the orientation of one or more user sensors may be determined at block . The orientation of the particular segment of user for example the foot calf thigh and so on may also be determined based at least in part on the orientation of the user sensor attached to the corresponding segment of user . As the user moves within building the kinematic variables of the movement of user with respect to origin of global reference system may be determined at block including for example acceleration velocity and or displacement based on movement of the user and or the gait of user . The kinematic data captured by the one or more user sensors may be broadcast to information handling system . In one or more embodiments method may be performed at least in part to perform an initial set up of global reference system and or calibration of user sensors . In some embodiments the set up of global reference system and or calibration of sensors may be periodically or occasionally performed by performing method at least in part as needed. Furthermore in some embodiments the architectural features of building and or its contents such as furniture may be mapped to global reference system so that the location of user within building may be determined. For example data regarding when user moves from one room to another how long user remains in a particular room how frequently a user enters a particular room and so on may be captured via capturing the kinematic data as implemented by method although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Referring now to a diagram of an information handling system capable of capturing capture body movement related to a fixed coordinate system in accordance with one or more embodiments will be discussed. Information handling system of may tangibly embody one or more of any of the network elements of network as shown in and described with respect to . For example information handling system may represent the hardware of information handling system and or user sensors with greater or fewer components depending on the hardware specifications of the particular device or network element. Although information handling system represents one example of several types of computing platforms information handling system may include more or fewer elements and or different arrangements of elements than shown in and the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in these respects.

Some portions of the detailed description herein are presented in terms of processes programs and or symbolic representations of operations on data bits and or binary digital signals within a computer memory for example. These process descriptions and or representations may include techniques used in the data processing arts to convey the arrangement of a computer system and or other information handling system to operate according to such programs processes and or symbolic representations of operations.

A process may be generally considered to be a self consistent sequence of acts and or operations leading to a desired result. These include physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical and or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and or otherwise manipulated. It may be convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers and or the like. However these and or similar terms may be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities.

The processes and or displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computing device and or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or a more specialized apparatus may be constructed to perform the desired method. The desired structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In addition embodiments are not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings described herein.

In one or more embodiments a database may refer an organization of information created stored accessed edited and or otherwise utilized by a computing platform. In one or more embodiments a tag may refer to a command contained in a file object and or document that may specify how the file object and or document and or a portion thereof may be formatted. In one or more embodiments metadata may refer to information pertaining to data contained in a file object and or document for example formatting information date of creation date of editing date saved how data was obtained and or from where data was obtained. Such metadata for example may be utilized in for database management purposes and or for data warehousing of multiple databases although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. In one or more embodiments an application programming interface API may refer to a set of routines protocols and or tools utilized to cause a program to operate in conjunction with an operating system. In one or more embodiments an operating system may refer to a program to execute on a computing platform to handle input and or output commands file management printing displaying storing and or communicating of information for the computing platform. However these are merely examples of database and or operating system functions and the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in these respects.

In one or more embodiments a hierarchical data set may refer to a set of data items such as files and or directories organized hierarchically. For example a file system may be an example of a hierarchical data set. In one or more embodiments metadata may refer to information about data items contained in a hierarchical data set or the like. For example metadata may comprise a filename a date of creation an author and or a set of keywords. Some metadata may reflect information specific to the type of item for example width height and or orientation for a graphical document and or tempo or key for an audio recording. In one or more embodiments intrinsic metadata may refer to information about an item that may be associated to an item by its very nature. For example intrinsic metadata of an image may include width and or height of the image. In one or more embodiments extrinsic metadata may refer to information about an item associated by a user such as a list of keywords a rating or comments. However these are merely examples of hierarchical data sets metadata intrinsic metadata and or extrinsic metadata and the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in these respects.

In one or more embodiments information handling system may comprise one or more processors such as processor and or processor which may comprise one or more processing cores. One or more of processor and or processor may couple to one or more memories and or via memory bridge which may be disposed external to processors and or or alternatively at least partially disposed within one or more of processors and or . Memory and or memory may comprise various types of semiconductor based memory for example volatile type memory and or non volatile type memory. Memory bridge may couple to a graphics system to drive a display device not shown coupled to information handling system .

Information handling system may further comprise input output I O bridge to couple to various types of I O systems. I O system may comprise for example a universal serial bus USB type system an IEEE 1394 type system or the like to couple one or more peripheral devices to information handling system . Bus system may comprise one or more bus systems such as a peripheral component interconnect PCI express type bus or the like to connect one or more peripheral devices to information handling system . A hard disk drive HDD controller system may couple one or more hard disk drives or the like to information handling system for example Serial ATA type drives or the like or alternatively a semiconductor based drive comprising flash memory phase change and or chalcogenide type memory or the like. Switch may be utilized to couple one or more switched devices to I O bridge for example Gigabit Ethernet type devices or the like. Furthermore as shown in information handling system may include a radio frequency RF block comprising RF circuits and devices such as a baseband processor media access controller and or an RF transceiver for wireless communication with other wireless communication devices and or via wireless networks such as network of for example where information handling system embodies information handling system and or user sensors although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. In one or more embodiments RF block may comprise circuits to implement various functions such as processing of baseband signals although the scope of the claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

Although the claimed subject matter has been described with a certain degree of particularity it should be recognized that elements thereof may be altered by persons skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and or scope of claimed subject matter. It is believed that the subject matter pertaining to capturing body movement related to a fixed coordinate system and or many of its attendant utilities will be understood by the forgoing description and it will be apparent that various changes may be made in the form construction and or arrangement of the components thereof without departing from the scope and or spirit of the claimed subject matter or without sacrificing all of its material advantages the form herein before described being merely an explanatory embodiment thereof and or further without providing substantial change thereto. It is the intention of the claims to encompass and or include such changes.

