---

title: Dynamic support apparatus and system
abstract: A control unit system. The system includes a control unit which includes a control unit charging interface, at least one magnet located proximate to the control unit charging interface, at least one actuator, a detachable manifold including at least one magnet, fluidly coupled to the at least one actuator, a pump connected to the at least one actuator for causing actuation thereof, and a control system for controlling the pump, wherein the control system controls the pump to actuate the at least one actuator at least in response to a signal received by the control system. The system also includes a recharging device configured to receive the control unit, the recharging device including a reed switch, wherein when the magnet in the control unit is located proximate to the reed switch, the switch is activated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08845754&OS=08845754&RS=08845754
owner: DEKA Products Limited Partnership
number: 08845754
owner_city: Manchester
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120501
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 088 035 filed Apr. 15 2011 and entitled Dynamic Support Apparatus and System which is now U.S. Publication No. US 2011 0247321 A1 published Oct. 13 2011 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 706 340 filed Feb. 16 2010 and entitled Dynamic Support Apparatus and System now U.S. Pat. No. 8 074 559 issued Dec. 13 2011 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 168 793 filed Apr. 13 2009 and entitled Dynamic Support Apparatus all of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 706 340 is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 026 971 filed Feb. 6 2008 and entitled Dynamic Support Apparatus which is now U.S. Publication No. US 2009 0271000 A1 published Oct. 29 2009 which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 899 835 filed Feb. 6 2007 and entitled Dynamic Support Apparatus both of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 088 035 also claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 376 924 filed Aug. 25 2010 and entitled Dynamic Support Apparatus and System which is also hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This application also claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 504 034 filed Jul. 1 2011 and entitled Dynamic Support Apparatus and System which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under Contract Number W911NF 09 C 0035 awarded by the U.S. Army RDECOM ACQ CTR. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to support apparatuses and more specifically to dynamic support apparatuses.

This support apparatus may be used for upper limb and lower limb prosthetic devices or any device with interaction with the body but for exemplary purposes the present apparatus will be described in the context of prostheses for upper limb amputees.

Accordingly there is a need for a dynamic support apparatus that accommodates users needs in the interaction with the user. A device that can in addition to other features include changing geometry in response to a user including but not limited to residuum morphing or external mechanical prosthesis loading to maintain a secure comfortable fit with the user s body and or maintain a comfortable temperature and moisture environment between the support apparatus and the user s body is desired.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention a control unit system is disclosed. The system includes a control unit which includes a control unit charging interface at least one magnet located proximate to the control unit charging interface at least one actuator a detachable manifold including at least one magnet fluidly coupled to the at least one actuator a pump connected to the at least one actuator for causing actuation thereof and a control system for controlling the pump wherein the control system controls the pump to actuate the at least one actuator at least in response to a signal received by the control system. The system also includes a recharging device configured to receive the control unit the recharging device including a reed switch wherein when the magnet in the control unit is located proximate to the reed switch the switch is activated.

Some embodiments of this aspect of the present invention may include one or more of the following features. Wherein the detachable manifold fluidly couples a plurality of actuators to the pump through a plurality of interior channels. Wherein the system further includes a valve in fluid communication with each interior channel for controlling flow therethrough. Wherein the control system controls activation of the valves. Wherein the system further includes at least a first magnet disposed within at least one of the control unit and the detachable manifold and wherein the first magnet interacts with the other of the control unit and the detachable manifold to secure the detachable manifold to the control unit. Wherein the other of the control unit and the detachable manifold includes at least a second magnet for interacting with the first magnet to secure the detachable manifold to the control unit. Wherein the other of the control unit and the detachable manifold includes a metal feature for interacting with the first magnet to secure the detachable manifold to the control unit. Wherein the control system commands the pump to increase the pressure of the at least one actuator if the pressure detected by a sensor drops below a current pressure setpoint by more than a prescribed deadband. Wherein the control system commands venting of the at least one actuator if the pressure detected by the sensor exceeds the current pressure setpoint by more than the prescribed deadband. Wherein the control system commands the pump at a fixed time interval.

In accordance with one aspect of the present invention a system for providing support to a user is disclosed. The system includes at least two groups of at least one bladder a control unit including at least one actuator a detachable manifold comprising at least one magnet fluidly coupling the at least two groups of at least one bladder to the at least one actuator a pump connected to the at least one actuator for causing actuation thereof a control system for controlling the pump wherein the control system controls the pump to actuate the at least one actuator at least in response to a signal received by the control system and a switch configured to toggle the pump actuation between a first group and a second group of at least one bladder.

Some embodiments of this aspect of the present invention may include one or more of the following features. Wherein the detachable manifold fluidly couples a plurality of actuators to the pump through a plurality of interior channels. Wherein the system further includes a valve in fluid communication with each interior channel for controlling flow therethrough. Wherein the control system controls activation of the valves. Wherein the system further includes at least a first magnet disposed within at least one of the control unit and the detachable manifold wherein the first magnet interacts with the other of the control unit and the detachable manifold to secure the detachable manifold to the control unit. Wherein the other of the control unit and the detachable manifold includes at least a second magnet for interacting with the first magnet to secure the detachable manifold to the control unit. Wherein the other of the control unit and the detachable manifold includes a metal feature for interacting with the first magnet to secure the detachable manifold to the control unit. Wherein the control system commands the pump to increase the pressure of the at least one actuator if the pressure detected by a sensor drops below a current pressure setpoint by more than a prescribed deadband. Wherein the control system commands venting of the at least one actuator if the pressure detected by the sensor exceeds the current pressure setpoint by more than the prescribed deadband. Wherein the control system commands the pump at a fixed time interval.

In accordance with one aspect of the present invention a control unit for a dynamic support apparatus having at least one actuator includes a pump connected to the at least one actuator for causing actuation thereof. The control unit also includes a sensor detecting a pressure of the at least one actuator and a control system for controlling the pump to actuate the at least one actuator at least in response to the pressure detected by the sensor.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention the control unit includes a detachable manifold fluidly coupling the at least one actuator to the pump to control the distribution of air to the at least one actuator. In some embodiments the detachable manifold may be attached to the control unit using magnetic force. The control unit may also include at least one valve allowing the control system to control airflow through the detachable manifold.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention at least one sensor provides information on the stability and fit of the support apparatus to the control system. In accordance with a further aspect of the present invention the at least one sensor is a pressure transducer. In accordance with another aspect of the present invention the control system maintains a constant pressure measured by the pressure transducer. In accordance with another aspect of the present invention the control system increases the pressure of at least one actuator if the pressure detected by the sensor drops below a current pressure setpoint by more than a pre determined error threshold.

In accordance with a further aspect of the present invention the control system actuates a change in geometry of the dynamic interface based on the information provided by the at least one sensor. In one aspect of the present invention the control system evaluates a user activity level based at least on the information provided by the at least one sensor. In another aspect of the present invention the evaluation of the user activity level is also based on a pressure variability and a duration of the pressure variability. According to another aspect of the present invention the control system increases the pressure of at least one actuator if a high activity threshold is exceeded and decreases the pressure of at least one actuator if a low activity threshold is exceeded.

In yet another aspect of the present invention the control system evaluates whether a safety threshold has been exceeded based at least on the information provided by the at least one sensor. In another aspect of the present invention the evaluation of whether the safety threshold has been exceeded is also based on a temperature. In one aspect of the present invention the control system enters an auto relief mode if the safety threshold has been exceeded.

In another aspect of the present invention a method for control of at least one actuator of a dynamic support apparatus includes monitoring a pressure of the at least one actuator and altering the pressure of the at least one actuator based at least in part on the monitored pressure. According to some aspects of the present invention the method includes increasing the pressure of the at least one actuator if the monitored pressure drops below a current pressure setpoint by more than a pre determined error threshold. In another aspect of the present invention the method includes evaluating a user activity level based at least on the pressure of the at least one actuator. In yet another aspect of the present invention the method includes evaluating whether the safety threshold has been exceeded based at least on the pressure of the at least one actuator.

These aspects of the invention are not meant to be exclusive and other features aspects and advantages of the present invention will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art when read in conjunction with the appended claims and accompanying drawings.

For exemplary purposes the support apparatus will be described in the embodiment of a support apparatus for an upper limb trans humeral TH prosthesis as seen in such as the various prosthetic arms described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 027 141 filed Feb. 6 2008 and entitled Arm Prosthetic Device now U.S. Publication No. US 2008 0288088 A1 published Nov. 20 2008 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 706 609 filed Feb. 16 2010 and entitled Arm Prosthetic Device now U.S. Publication No. US 2010 0274365 A1 published Oct. 28 2010 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 088 063 filed Apr. 15 2011 and entitled Arm Prosthetic Device now U.S. Publication No. US 2011 0257765 A1 published Oct. 20 2011 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. However in various embodiments the support apparatus as well as the various embodiments of the control unit may be used with various other apparatus and is not limited to use with an arm prosthetic device.

Referring to the support apparatus which is utilized to removably adhere to prosthesis shown in to an upper limb residuum includes a frame a dynamic interface a control system and a temperature control mechanism . The frame is generally rigid and may be made of high tech composite material such as carbon fiber.

In one embodiment the frame may be open and have a plurality of apertures . The structural members of the frame of this embodiment may be strategically placed to maximize the openness of the apparatus. Additionally the plurality of apertures may be the temperature control mechanism or function as a part of the temperature control mechanism.

The dynamic interface is disposed on a top surface of the frame closest to the upper limb residuum . The dynamic interface includes one or more actuators of various shapes and sizes that can be positioned either longitudinally and or circumferentially along the frame . The actuators are capable of changing their geometry and volume to secure the support apparatus to the residuum shown in and to account for morphing in the residuum .

As discussed above the support apparatus includes apertures to address both structural and temperature concerns. In addition the apertures may be designed to provide relief to the residuum shown in when the support apparatus is secured thereonto. For instance the apertures may provide space to allow the soft tissue of the residuum shown in to move away from the actuators thereby minimizing the amount of soft tissue between the load bearing surfaces of the support apparatus i.e. the actuators and the bone within the residuum shown in . Thus the apertures allow the soft tissue of the residuum to escape the areas of contact with the actuators thereby providing relief to the user and allowing the actuators to engage to bone within the residuum shown in .

Although described as apertures in some embodiments the support apparatus may additionally include at least one hollow cavity to provide another means for soft tissue escape. Thus as the actuators change their geometry to secure the support apparatus to the residuum shown in the soft tissue may be displaced into the hollow cavities during actuation to provide relief to the user.

Referring to the actuators may be bladders filled with air gas or incompressible liquid electroactive polymers EAPs or other types of actuators capable of changing their geometry. The dynamic interface also includes one or more connectors that connect the actuator s to the control system . The connector s may be fluid paths tubes wires or other similar channels.

Referring to in an embodiment having bladders for actuators and fluid path connectors for connectors the bladder will change geometry from an inactuated position shown in to the actuated position shown in when filled with air. Although the bladder is shown with a substantially uniform cross section in the same functionality may be obtained from the bladder having a non uniform cross section shown inactuated in and actuated in wherein the like numerals represent the like elements.

Referring to in a further embodiment the bladders may have bladder inlets to facilitate the connection of the fluid path connectors shown in . The bladder inlets may be located at any position on a periphery of each bladder to accommodate the desired fluid path connector routing configuration. Referring to an alternative embodiment positions the bladder inlet on a body of the bladder . In this embodiment as seen in the bladder inlet may pass through the frame to facilitate connection to the fluid path connectors .

In one embodiment the frame has an outer shell and an inner shell. Here the dynamic interface may be disposed between the outer shell and the inner shell. The inner shell may also have apertures to dictate the shape the actuator s . For example if the actuator s are bladders the inner shell apertures would dictate the shape of the bladder as it is inflated.

Referring to in some embodiments the frame may be formed according to a casting process using one or more casting blanks to provide bladder accommodations within the frame that have planar surfaces upon which the bladders shown in may sit. The planar surfaces of these bladder accommodations advantageously prevent the bladders shown in from un adhering thereto which is more likely with curved surfaces. The one or more casting blanks are formed to have a size and shape that is substantially the same as the bladders shown in and any fastening mechanism that will fasten the bladders shown in to the frame such as Velcro and or glue. Additionally each casting blank has a tapered hole formed therein to facilitate the formation of holes for allowing the bladders shown in to be connected to connectors shown in .

During the casting process a prosthesist or clinician forming the frame covers the portion of the residuum that is being cast with one or more plaster wraps . The prosthesist presses the one or more casting blanks into the outer surface of the plaster wraps at locations where bladders shown in are to contact the residuum within the fully formed dynamic support apparatus shown in . The prosthesist allows the plaster wraps to cure with the casting blanks pressed therein such that bladder impressions are formed within the fully cured plaster wraps . While allowing the plaster wraps to cure the prosthesist preferably ensures that the casting blanks remain parallel to the bone within the residuum . The cured plaster wraps may then be filled to form a plaster positive which will also have the bladder impressions formed therein. The casting blanks may then be secured to the plaster positive and the frame may be cast therearound to form the bladder accommodates on the inner surface of the frame . In some embodiments the casting blanks may include one or more tack holes for allowing one or more tacks to pass therethrough to secure to the casting blanks to the plaster positive . As discussed above the tapered holes of the casting blanks form dimpled impressions in the outer surface of the frame thereby advantageously locating the drilling locations for the holes .

The casting blanks and the casting process discussed in connection with advantageously allows for the formation of bladder accommodations that are straight and parallel to the bone within the residuum rather than following the curved outer surface of the residuum . This allows the bladders shown in positioned within the bladder accommodations to better engage the residuum and the bone therein to provide a more secure and better load bearing fit for the dynamic support apparatus shown in as compared to a support formed with the curved outer surface of the residuum which would tend to push the residuum out of the socket when actuated.

In another alternative embodiment referring to the dynamic interface is a single integrated layer disposed on the top surface of the frame . For example in an embodiment having bladders with fluid path connectors the bladders and fluid paths connectors are embedded into a single layer of material that is placed on top of the frame . The single integrated layer may be made of any material that allows for morphable chambers that can house or act as actuators of variable geometry. Such material may be silicone or rapid prototype molding material covered with a layer of silicone. The single integrated layer may also have nodules to attach to the frame having corresponding apertures for the nodules . In some embodiments the nodules are protrusions. The nodules do not have to be round bumps as depicted in one embodiment of the apparatus.

Referring to the bladders and fluid path connectors may be molded as a part of the single integrated layer such that the layer itself contains internal paths and compartments that serve as the fluid path connectors and bladders respectively. The molded single integrated layer may also have nodules to attach to a frame having corresponding apertures . As seen in the single integrated layer may be constructed by molding an actuation layer containing the necessary bladders and fluid path connectors and a connection layer containing nodules for attaching the single integrated layer to the frame. The actuation layer and the connection layer can then be bonded together to form the single integrated layer as seen in . The molded single integrated layer may be fabricated from any material that allows morphable chambers that can act as actuators of variable geometry. Such material may be silicone or rapid prototype molding material covered in a layer of silicone. Additionally bladders such as the bladders shown in or the bladders shown in with their unique characteristics may also be embedded in the molded single integration layer which may provide the dynamic interface with characteristics of both the bladders and the molded single integration layer for example to increase actuation while increasing stability.

The dynamic interface allows the support apparatus to morph and adapt to the function of the residuum . For example in an embodiment having actuators that are bladders filled with gas when the residuum morphs possibly due to tissue volume variation or loading the bladders either inflate or deflate to adjust to the residuum morphing and to maintain a secure and comfortable fit on the residuum .

The control system controls the changing geometry of the actuators . The control system may be hydraulic pneumatic electromechanical mechanical or any other actuator type mechanism that allows the actuators to change geometry. In our exemplary embodiment the bladders are controlled by a pneumatic system and connected to the system by the fluid paths connectors .

Referring now to one embodiment of the control system is shown as a manual system with a pressure bulb that is connected to the bladder by one or more fluid path connectors and one or more valves . When the user begins to feel instability with the fit of the support apparatus the user squeezes the pressure bulb to increase the air or liquid pressure in the bladder thus adjusting the fit of the support apparatus to the user s liking. The user may also decrease the pressure in the bladder by opening the valve . If more than one bladder is used the user may be able to adjust the pressure in each individual bladder .

Still referring to in this embodiment the bladder is laser welded. By laser welding a thin sheet of bladder material to a substantially thicker sheet of bladder material or a stable base material such as an injection molded flexible plastic the actuation can be isolated to a desired direction. As seen in the bladder deforms in the direction of the thin sheet of material while the remainder of the bladder remains substantially unchanged.

Referring now to in an alternative embodiment of the control system the pressure bulb is connected to a plurality of bladders by one or more fluid path connectors and valves through a manifold . The manifold may have pressure selectors allowing the user to adjust the pressure in the plurality of bladders by different amounts with the pressure bulb . The user may thus preset the pressure selectors to provide optimal adjustment of the support apparatus. Additionally the pressure selectors also allow the user to target one or more specific bladder s of the plurality of bladders such that pressure can be adjusted solely in the targeted bladders while pressure in the rest of the plurality of bladders remains unchanged. This targeting capability permits pinpoint adjustment based on localized instability or discomfort.

Referring now to the control system includes an electric pump in place of the pressure bulb for adjusting the pressure in the plurality of bladders. Pump control allows the user to either increase or decrease the pressure in the bladders.

Referring to an alternate embodiment incorporates the electric pump the pump control one or more valves and the manifold into a control unit . The fluid path connectors are attached to manifold outlets allowing adjustment of each bladder using the pump control . In some embodiments each manifold outlet is in fluid communication with the manifold through at least one valve such that the user may control inflation and deflation of each bladder individually through activation of the pump and or the valves . In some embodiments the manifold may be located in an accessible location such as attached to the user s belt or attached to the support apparatus itself.

Referring now to an alternate embodiment integrates each bladder and its control system . In the embodiment shown in the control system is a pressure bulb . In the embodiment shown in the control system is an electric pump . In such an embodiment the patient would adjust the pressure of each bladder by actuating its integrated control system .

Referring to in some embodiments the control unit includes a housing having the pump control integrated therein. Disposed within the housing are the electric pump shown in the one or more valves shown in and the manifold shown in as well as electrical connections such as circuit board shown in one or more processors not shown a power supply shown in FIG. B and the like for connecting the pump control to the electric pump and the one or more valves to allow the user to control the operation thereof. The pump control may include one or more user inputs that may include for example buttons each to activate a particular specific support apparatus control mode as will be discussed in greater detail below. In some embodiments the one or more user inputs may include a function or toggle switch so as to use the same button or user input for multiple functionalities. In some embodiments the power supply for the control unit may advantageously include a rechargeable lithium battery.

Referring to the control unit may include a detachable manifold to facilitate connection of the connectors shown in such as flexible tubing to the control unit . The detachable manifold may include a plurality of interior channels extending therethrough to which the connectors may be coupled. The detachable manifold mates with a gasket of the control unit such that the interior channels align and communicate with fluid channels of the control unit . The gasket may be a planar gasket that prevents leakage at the interface between the fluid channels and the interior channels or may include in various embodiments a sealing element such as a silicone sheet an o ring surrounding each fluid channel or the like. In some embodiments the detachable manifold and or the control unit may include one or more magnets that align to facilitate the connection between the detachable manifold and the control unit and that hold the detachable manifold in position with the gasket . In some embodiments only one of the detachable manifold and the control unit is provided with one or more magnets while the other of the detachable manifold and the control unit is provided with one or more metal features for attracting the one or more magnets . For instance in an embodiment where the detachable manifold includes one or more magnets the control unit may be provided with a metal face plate that forms at least a portion of the gasket for contacting the detachable manifold . In other embodiments the detachable manifold may be attached through other known fastening means such as a latch or the like. Additionally in some embodiments the detachable manifold may be connected to the control unit through a hinged connection that allows the detachable manifold to pivot relative to the gasket or a partial hinged connection that allows the detachable manifold to pivot relative to the gasket and to be fully detached from the control unit if desired. In some embodiments the detachable manifold and the control unit may include one or more complimentary alignment features to aid with proper alignment of the interior channels and fluid channels when the detachable manifold is connected to the control unit .

The pump shown in is connected to each fluid channel through a valve shown in and through the manifold shown in such that the control unit is able to control the pump shown in and or one or more valves shown in to supply air to one or more of the fluid channels and therefore to the connectors shown in through the interior channels of the detachable manifold . Thus when the detachable manifold is connected to the control unit the control unit may supply air to one or more bladders shown in to control actuation thereof. For example in some embodiments the control unit may control six actuators shown in however in other embodiments the control unit may control as many actuators shown in as desired.

The detachable manifold may advantageously be detached from the control unit to quickly deflate all bladders shown in connected thereto so that the dynamic support apparatus shown in may be removed from the user. This may be particularly advantageous in emergency situations or the like. Additionally the control unit may also advantageously be detached from the detachable manifold and attached to a test and or calibration unit not shown for the dynamic support apparatus shown in . The detachable manifold may also advantageously allow the control unit to be easily detached from the dynamic support apparatus shown in for charging of the power supply shown in for example on a wireless charging pad or the like. In some embodiments the detachable manifold may be integral with a holster such as a belt holster for the control unit . Integrating the detachable manifold into the holster may advantageously allow the connectors shown in to terminate in the holster allowing the control unit to be attached thereto making the pneumatic connections in the process.

In some embodiments the control unit includes a detection means not shown for alerting the control unit as to whether or not the detachable manifold is attached thereto. For example the detection means not shown may include but is not limited to a mechanical switch an electrical circuit that is completed through contact of the detachable manifold and the control unit a Hall effect sensor or the like. In some embodiments the detection means not show may also allow the control unit to automatically detect that it is connected to the test and or calibration unit not shown .

The control unit may be generally the size of a personal data assistant or smart phone and in some embodiments the control unit may advantageously control more than one dynamic support apparatus shown in . In other embodiments a user may wear a separate control unit for each dynamic support apparatus shown in . In some embodiments multiple control units may be used and may work cooperatively or independently from a common set of inputs.

Referring now to another embodiment of a control unit detachable manifold is shown. In some embodiments the control unit detachable manifold includes a detachable manifold cover having a plurality of interior channels and a plurality of fittings which fit within the interior channels . The detachable manifold may include at least two magnets which as described above align to facilitate and or guide the connection between the detachable manifold and the control unit . In addition in some embodiments the control unit detachable manifold may include a plurality of block magnets which in some embodiments may include rows of block magnets that hold maintain the detachable manifold in position with the gasket . Referring now also to in some embodiments the control unit includes one or more magnets of a mating polarity and arrangement or as shown in the embodiment in a face plate of a suitable ferromagnetic material for example but not limited to 416 stainless steel. Magnet backer plates may also be included in various embodiments and may increase the overall magnetic bond between the detachable manifold and the control unit . In some embodiments the magnet backer plates may be made from stainless steel which includes but is not limited to 416 stainless steel however in various other embodiments the magnetic backer plates may be made from any ferromagnetic material. The backer plates increase the strength of the magnetic connection between the detachable manifold and the control unit as they serve as flux shaping mechanisms. The detachable manifold may also include a manifold base . In some embodiments the geometries of the pneumatic interface may and are not limited to the ones shown and described herein.

In some embodiments the detachable manifold may include a flow restrictor which in some embodiments may be a flow restrictor disc at the vent output which is the output which vents air removed from the bladder. Although one flow restrictor disc is shown in this is for illustrative purposes only in various embodiments a flow restrictor whether a flow restrictor disc or another type of flow restrictor may be included for each vent output from a bladder. In some embodiments the flow restrictor may be a disc as shown in and in some embodiments the disc may be made from plastic which may include but is not limited to DELRIN or another polymer including but not limited to a polyoxymethylene copolymer. However in other embodiments the disc maybe made from any material including but not limited to stainless steel brass and or sapphire. In some embodiments the flow restrictor may be disc shaped however in other embodiments the flow restrictor may be any shape. In some embodiments the flow restrictor includes an orifice and in some embodiments the orifice may be about 0.007 inches in diameter however in various other embodiments the flow restrictor orifice may be larger or smaller than 0.007 inches in diameter. In some embodiments a flow restrictor is used to slow the exit of air from the bladders such that the rate of loss of air may be more closely controlled. In addition in some embodiments the flow restrictor may mitigate the rate of loss of air from the bladders during a software or controls failure. Also because the vent port of the dynamic socket itself does not include a flow restrictor to speed the rate of loss of air from the bladders the detachable manifold may be disconnected from the control unit to remove the flow restrictor.

In some embodiments the flow restrictor may be made from a porous membrane. In some embodiments the flow restrictor may be made from a plug or sintered metal which may be porous and used as a flow restrictor. In other embodiments the flow restrictor may be any type of flow restrictor made of any material.

Referring now also to various views of one embodiment of a control unit housing are shown. In some embodiments the control unit housing may include at least one vent which in some embodiments may include at least one opening in the control unit housing and in some embodiments may include a porous membrane over the opening which may be used to prevent water ingress while allowing air into the control unit housing which is desirable for pump aspiration. Although one shape of the vent is shown in in various other embodiments the vent may be shaped differently and may include one or more openings.

The control system shown in may be an active control system that provides real time adjustments in each actuator shown in to accommodate prosthetic load and user posture and to anticipate user needs and in other embodiments where the dynamic support system is used for other purposes the adjustments may accommodate user preference and or needs . For example with the exemplary embodiment having bladders shown in as actuators shown in the control unit may include an active control system with various control modes for activating the inflation deflation of the bladders shown in as will be discussed in greater detail below. The active control system may be in place of or in addition to the manual pump control discussed herein. The active control system may have one or more input mechanisms for gathering readings on the stability and fit of the support apparatus shown in with the residuum shown in .

In some embodiments the input mechanism includes sensors such as pressure transducers. The sensors may be placed on the inner shell of the frame on the actuator s on the connector s connected to the actuator s or in any other suitable location for providing information on the stability and fit of the support apparatus as should be obvious to those skilled in the art. Controlled by a computer or processor the sensor s determine the pressure in the actuator s and with the feedback loops signals are sent to the control unit to either increase or decrease the actuator s pressure possibly by inflation or deflation thereby changing the volume of the actuator to exert the needed force to maintain the support apparatus s secure fit with the user s body. The computer or processor for controlling the sensors is preferably integrated into the control unit of the control system shown in as discussed above. Referring to with the exemplary embodiment having bladders as actuators a pressure sensor may be placed on the bladder to provide fit information to the control unit through a sensor connector . In this embodiment if a loose fit is detected by pressure sensor i.e. the sensed pressure is low a signal is sent to the control unit to increase the pressure in the corresponding bladder until a high pressure is sensed and therefore a stable condition is achieved. In this embodiment the active control system adjusts the pressure of each actuator in response to the part of the morphing residuum in contact with that actuator. This embodiment does not necessarily maintain a constant fluid pressure in each bladder nor does it necessarily maintain a total constant contact pressure against the residuum. In addition to pressure sensors for each actuator shown in or actuator channel in some embodiments the control unit may also include one or more pressure sensors detecting pressure within the manifold shown in which advantageously allows the control unit to check one pressure measurement against another if desired. This manifold pressure sensor is also advantageous when increasing the pressure in a particular actuator shown in or actuator channel. For example the manifold pressure sensor allows the control unit to first activate the pump shown in to bring the pressure within the manifold shown in to that which may be desired within the actuator shown in . Once the desired pressure is achieved the control unit may then open the valve shown in connected to the actuator shown in to increase the pressure within the actuator shown in without causing a momentary drop in pressure when the valve shown in is opened to connect the actuator channel to the manifold shown in .

An alternative embodiment includes an active control system with sensors and feedback loops that maintain constant pressure in each actuator . For example in an embodiment having bladders the sensors and feedback loops may be placed on each bladder or on each fluid path of each bladder . The sensors may be programmed to take an initial pressure reading of a bladder . The sensors then may take continuous pressure readings of the bladder comparing these readings to the initial pressure. As the bladder pressure changes the sensors and feedback loops may send signals to the control unit which may adjust the pressure in the bladder to maintain the initial bladder pressure. Maintaining a constant pressure in the bladders may correspond to maintaining a constant fit between the support apparatus and the residuum.

Referring to the active control system may also include EMG electrodes for providing control input to the control unit . The EMG electrodes may be placed between the actuator s and the skin of the residuum on a separate layer or on each actuator . The EMG electrodes sense voluntary underlying muscle activity and may be used to control some function of the prosthesis. In a support apparatus having bladders the bladders control the downward pressure of the EMG electrodes on the skin of the residuum . This control of the downward force may eliminate unintentional relative movement of the EMG electrodes which generates an artifact signal which may be present with EMG electrodes. As the residuum morphs or the patient puts loads on the residuum the pressure applied to each bladder by the residuum may vary which in turn may vary the EMG electrodes contact with the skin of the residuum . The pressure sensors sense this pressure differential and the control unit may adjust the pressure of the bladder s so as to put pressure back on the EMG electrodes . This pressure on the EMG electrodes pushes the EMG electrodes against the skin of the residuum which may enhance the maintenance of constant contact and a secure fit between the residuum and the support apparatus.

The control unit may include a partially automatic control system for the actuator s with preset actuator pressures. The user has a control unit that may be programmed with preset numbers or modes that correspond to preset actuator pressures. These presets may be programmed by the patient while using the support apparatus or may be pre programmed by a clinician. The preset pressures may be set to accommodate support apparatus fits for a resting mode a light load mode a high load mode a massage mode or other types of activity. Depending on the patient s activity the patient may select a number or mode on the control unit which may automatically adjust the fit and pressure of the actuator s to whatever pressure s was programmed to that number. The massage mode may be utilized to facilitate circulation in the residuum. For example the control unit may turn off one actuator at a time to allow blood flow into the region of the turned off actuator . By cycling through the actuators one at a time blood flow in the residuum is assisted with minimal loss of stability of the dynamic support apparatus .

The temperature control mechanism of the dynamic support apparatus may include the apertures of the support apparatus in . The apertures allow for cooling by passive ventilation which reduces moisture and heat between the support apparatus and the residuum . Additionally the temperature control mechanism may include ducted air flow over the skin of the residuum heat exchangers personal cooling systems such as those found in Sharper Image s Personal Cooling System ducted fans or integrating sports or outdoor recreation clothing designed for heat moisture management. The temperature control mechanism may be placed in a separate layer between the dynamic interface or top surface and the residuum integrated into the same layer as the dynamic interface or integrated into the top surface of the frame . An active control system similar to the system already described may also be used to control the temperature control mechanism so as to maintain a constant temperature through the use of temperature sensors between the residuum and the support apparatus .

Referring to the temperature control mechanism may include one or more duct s connected to a plurality of orifices and integrated into the dynamic interface . In this embodiment temperature control is accomplished by supplying air through the duct s and the plurality of orifices to impinge on the skin of the residuum.

While the exemplary embodiment described above relates to upper limb prosthesis for TH amputees the support apparatus can be used for transradial TR amputees and for shoulder disarticulation SD amputees. Referring now to one embodiment of a dynamic support apparatus for SD amputees includes a frame having actuators and connectors connected to one or more active straps such as McKibben artificial muscles. The term dynamic strap as used herein is synonymous with the active strap . Each active strap contains at least one actuator and at least one strap connector for connecting the actuator to the control system. Similar to those embodiments already described each active strap may also contain sensors and feedback loops for providing fit information to the control system. The active straps are connected to the control system and control unit. Thus as pressure and tension on the active strap s change due to load variations on the residuum the sensors signal the control unit to adjust the pressure of the strap s s actuator s which in turn adjusts the tension and length of the strap. These adjustments ensure a secure fit against the user s body and ensure stability of the prosthesis. The active straps and strap connectors may be integrated with the dynamic interface such that one control system controls both the dynamic interface and the active straps simultaneously. As should be understood by those skilled in the art the strap connectors may alternatively be routed to a separate control unit specifically for the active straps .

Referring to in addition to controlling the tension and length of active straps by actuators each active strap may additionally contain a length adjuster which may be used to manually adjust the length and fit of each active strap .

Referring to in the exemplary embodiment having bladders for actuators and fluid path connectors for strap connectors the bladder is encased in a deformable strap material such as nylon webbing. The bladder is connected to the control system by the fluid path connector . The end of each active strap has an attachment mechanism for attaching the active strap to the frame. The active strap is in a preset condition in having a strap length and a preset bladder cross section.

Referring to the active strap is in an actuated condition having an actuated bladder cross section greater than that shown in and an actuated strap length that is less than the preset strap length shown in . Accordingly when instability is detected in the support apparatus either by the control system or by the user pressure may be increased in the active strap causing the bladder to expand radially from the preset condition of to the actuated condition of . As pressure increases in the bladder the deformable strap material deforms decreasing the length of the active strap and increasing stability in the support apparatus.

Referring to the control system of each active strap may be an electric pump such that the pressure in each active strap may be adjusted independent of the other active straps and the dynamic interface. Referring to the control system of each active strap may alternatively be a pressure bulb such that the pressure in each active strap may be adjusted independent of the other active straps and the dynamic interface. Although shown as separate units in the control system may be integrated with the bladder similar to that shown in .

Unlike typical McKibben artificial muscles which are used in high pressure applications the active straps in the dynamic support apparatus are operated under low pressure conditions. Accordingly various configuration changes have been made to the inflation arrangement and strap characteristics of the active straps to increase performance and efficiency in low pressure conditions. The actuator length to strap length for the active strap is about two thirds the length seen in the prior art. This increases actuation with less pressure and makes the active strap and the support apparatus more responsive. Additionally when the actuator in active strap is a bladder it may be fabricated wider than the strap itself so that the bladder can be inflated causing the strap diameter to increase without putting energy into stretching the bladder itself. Bladders that are fabricated by laser welding such as the bladder shown in also provide for improved performance in low pressure conditions because they can be constructed to deform the active strap in specific shapes and locations rather than only circular deformation.

Referring to an additional embodiment of an active strap is shown. The active strap may include a flexible strap portion having a bladder attached thereto. The active strap is connected to the frame to secure the frame to the user s residuum . For example the active strap may secure a trans radial prosthetic support to the user s elbow. The bladder is operatively connected to the control system shown in through a fluid path connector . In operation the active strap secures the frame to the residuum with the flexible strap portion providing the active strap with strong tensile preload. The bladder of the active strap may then be actuated while the frame is secured to the residuum to generate a normal force on the residuum to alter the securing properties of the active strap . Thus the bladder allows for remote adjustment of the fit of the support apparatus shown in . The bladder also provides the active strap with a measure of compliance and may aid in anchoring the frame to the residuum i.e. to prevent sliding. Although the bladder is shown in a particular embodiment for exemplary purposes it should be understood that the bladder may be in the form of any of the various embodiments described herein. For example as seen in the bladder may include an accordion sidewall to allow for increased actuation.

Referring to the embodiment shown in attached to the support apparatus is a prosthetic interface for attaching a prosthesis not shown to the support apparatus . The prosthetic interface is fixedly attached to the support apparatus by attachment means which may be rivets bolts or any similar means of attachment. The prosthetic interface has a prosthetic mount for to which the prosthesis may be attached. The prosthetic mount preferably includes a standard coupling configuration to facilitate attachment of the prosthesis. Although shown as holes it should be understood that the standard coupling configuration could also be a bolt configuration that interfaces with corresponding holes on the prosthesis. The prosthetic interface should be rigid in construction such that it does not bend or flex when the attached prosthesis is used to lift a heavy object.

Referring to a method of fabricating the dynamic interface of the dynamic support apparatus may be a layer molding technique. For example for the SD prosthesis support apparatus such method may involve the steps of scanning the contour of a patient s residuum in an outline where the frame will sit on the residuum flattening the scanned contour so that it can be made into a template for a mold machining the flattened template into the mold pouring silicone or similar material in the mold to half the final thickness of the dynamic interface to create a first interface layer laying the actuator s and connector s on top of the first interface layer pouring silicone or similar material on top of the actuator s and connector s to a desired thickness of the dynamic interface to create a second interface layer removing the resulting dynamic interface from the mold and connecting the resulting dynamic interface to a control system not shown and a frame .

Although described with regard to the SD prosthesis support as seen in the dynamic interface fabricated by the layer molding technique described above can also be applied to other types of prosthesis support apparatuses by scanning the appropriate part of the residuum and attaching the resulting dynamic interface to the frame and control system.

An alternative method of fabricating a dynamic interface for example for a TH prosthesis support apparatus may involve the steps of scanning the contour of a patient s residuum to form an inner mold of the TH residuum forming the inner mold of the TH residuum coating the inner mold with an inner layer of liner made of material such as silicone or similar material scanning the inner mold to generate an outer mold forming an outer mold laying the actuator s and connector s on top of the inner layer of liner pouring an outer layer of silicone or similar material on top of the inner layer the actuator s and the connector s using the outer mold to form the outer layer of the dynamic interface and connecting the resulting dynamic interface to a control system and a frame .

Referring back to the frame may be capable of expanding or opening to facilitate donning and doffing the support apparatus. One or more securing mechanisms such as snaps or latches may be used to prevent expansion or opening of the frame while the support apparatus is being worn by the user.

Referring to in an alternative embodiment the support apparatus may be capable of expanding or opening parallel to its longitudinal axis to facilitate donning and doffing. An opening of the frame may run along only a portion of the length of the support apparatus or may run along the entire length of the support apparatus from the proximal to the distal end of the apparatus. The securing mechanism may be flexible such as a circumferential strap or more rigidly articulated with mechanical mechanisms to prevent expansion or opening of the frame while the support apparatus is being worn by the user. In this embodiment the dynamic interface may be composed of multiple portions each being attached to a part of the frame .

Some embodiments may also include an exhaust system that is incorporated into the control system. The exhaust system may channel excess gas resulting from the release of pressure in the actuators to one or more exhaust outlets. In the exemplary embodiment with air as the fluid the exhaust outlets may vent the air into the atmosphere. In other embodiments the exhaust outlets may channel the air into a reservoir from which the air can be drawn back into the system to increase pressure. These exhaust outlets may also be strategically positioned or ducted along the frame to channel flow over the surface of the residuum. This flow could aid convective cooling of the residuum.

The dynamic interface is able to change geometry to provide a fit with the residuum . The user may manually actuate the dynamic interface to increase stability as needed. The dynamic support apparatus may include a temperature control system to increase the comfort of the dynamic support apparatus. The frame may be capable of opening to assist the user in donning and doffing the dynamic support apparatus.

The control system may actively actuate the dynamic interface based on fit information provided by sensors. The control system may include preset modes such that the fit may be changed for each mode. The control system may include a massage mode for increasing blood circulation in the residuum.

Referring to in some embodiments the prosthesis not shown itself may send signals to the control unit of the active control system so that the control unit may adjust the dynamic interface of the support apparatus based on the current usage of the prosthesis not shown . For instance the prosthesis not shown may send load signals indicative of the loading of the prosthesis not shown . The load signals may be provided to the control unit by force sensors compliance sensors and or motors within the prosthesis not shown . The prosthesis not shown may also send function signals to the control unit indicative of a mode of operation of the prosthesis not shown and or of a current positioning of the prosthesis not shown . The load signals and the function signals may be transmitted to the control unit through a wired connection or wirelessly for example through Bluetooth radio or the like.

The load signals and the function signals allow the control system to actively alter the type and level of support provided to the prosthesis not shown by the support apparatus . For example the control unit may compensate for load signals indicating high loading of the prosthesis not shown by increasing the actuation of the actuators of the support apparatus to better secure the support apparatus to the residuum shown in . Similarly the control unit may compensate for load signals indicating low loading of the prosthesis not shown by decreasing the actuation of the actuators to loosen the interface between the support apparatus and the residuum shown in . Thus the control unit is able to provide increased support to the prosthesis not shown when necessary and to loosen the support to allow for improved blood circulation in the residuum shown in during lower loading conditions. The function signals may also provide improved control to the prosthetic support apparatus . For instance the function signals may indicate a current mode of operation of the prosthesis not shown which may allow the control unit to alter the support provided by the support apparatus to suit the operating mode. For example if the function signal indicates that the prosthesis not shown has entered a standby mode the control unit may decrease actuation of the actuators or enter a massage mode to increase blood circulation in the residuum shown in . Additionally the function signals may provide information to the control unit indicating a current position of the prosthesis not shown for example through position sensors such as potentiometers magnetic sensors Hall effect sensors and the like. Using these function signals the control unit may actuate specific actuators more than others to provide greater support in certain areas of the support apparatus based on the position of the prosthesis not shown . Thus the load signals and the function signals may provide for improved active control of the prosthetic support apparatus based on detected function or loads that the prosthesis not shown is imparting on the support apparatus that the support apparatus may adjust appropriately.

In various embodiments the support apparatus may additionally include perfusion sensors in communication with the control unit to determine the amount of blood flowing in tissue of the residuum shown in underneath the areas of contact with the actuators . For example referring to in some embodiments the perfusion sensor may be a pulse oximeter for detecting whether or not the skin is adequately perfused. In other embodiments the perfusion sensor may be a blood volume pulse sensor for detecting blood flow within the residuum shown in . If the skin is not the control unit may decrease actuation of one or more of the actuators and or enter a massage mode to increase blood circulation in the residuum shown in .

Referring to in some embodiments the support apparatus shown in may include bladders having a lateral stabilization system . The lateral stabilization system includes a base plate and a cover plate having the bladder disposed therebetween. The base plate may be fixedly secured to the frame of the support apparatus shown in . The base plate and the cover plate are pivotally connected to each other by a linkage which is preferably a four bar linkage. The linkage substantially prevents the cover plate from moving in the lateral direction L relative to the base plate while allowing the cover plate to pivot in the transverse direction T away from and back toward the base plate as seen in . The bladder may include an accordion sidewall to provide an increased actuation distance D that the cover plate may be actuated away from the base plate and the lateral stabilization system ensures that lateral stability is not lost as the bladder actuates to the increased actuation distance D.

The cover plate preferably includes a residuum contact surface that is contoured to improve user comfort for example by providing rounded corners that will not dig into the residuum shown in . In other embodiments the contact surface may be contoured to the shape of the user s residuum to increase comfort. Referring to the cover plate may also include one or more sensor cavities for accommodating one or more sensors for monitoring the fit of the support apparatus and or the condition of the residuum shown in . The sensors may be for example force sensors pressure sensors temperature sensors perfusion sensors or the like. Preferably the base plate and the cover plate are also formed to improve user comfort for example by being formed from a lightweight material such as an open cell foam.

Referring to the bladders having the lateral stabilization systems may be arranged around the support apparatus in a manner similar to those discussed above.

Referring to in operation the user may insert their residuum into the support apparatus in the transverse direction T while the bladders shown in having the lateral stabilization systems are in an inactuated state. Since the lateral stabilization system provides for the increased actuation distance D shown in when inactuated the cover plate may be completely out of contact with the residuum . Thus the user may insert their residuum easily without a mushrooming of the soft residuum tissue that may be caused by contact with the support apparatus . Then referring to the bladders may be actuated causing them to expand. As the bladders expand they push the cover plates away from the base plates . The linkage connecting each cover plate to each base plate pivots to allow the cover plate to move away from the base plate while maintaining lateral stability. The cover plates are actuated into contact with the residuum to secure the support apparatus to the residuum . To remove the support apparatus the bladders may simply be returned to their inactuated states as seen in FIG. and the residuum may be withdrawn from the support apparatus .

The lateral stabilization system is advantageous because in prevents unintentional removal of the residuum from the support apparatus for example due to slippage or the like. Specifically if the residuum begins to move in the transverse direction T while the bladders are actuated and in contact with the residuum the movement will create a camming effect pulling on the cover plate and causing the cover plate to pivot further away from the base plate . As the cover plate moves further from the base plate the contact force against the residuum is increased securing the support apparatus more tightly thereto. Thus the laterally stabilized bladders provide an improved securing interface when actuated yet also allow for ease of donning and doffing when inactuated as discussed above.

Referring to in some embodiments the lateral stabilization system may be provided with one or more resilient members connecting the cover plate to the base plate and applying a compressive force therebetween. For example the one or more resilient members may be elastic members spring members or the like. The one or more resilient members ensure that the cover plate pivots back into contact with the base plate when in an inactuated state.

Although described in connection with the exemplary embodiment it should be understood that various changes to the bladders and lateral stabilization system may be made. For example in some embodiments the bladder may be anchored directly to the support apparatus eliminating the need for the base plate . In this embodiment the linkage may be pivotally connected directly to the support apparatus . In some embodiments rather than the bladder with accordion sidewall two or more bladders without accordion sidewalls may be arranged between the cover plate and the base plate to provide the increased actuation distance D. In other embodiments the linkage may be telescopic rather than pivotal thereby providing stability in both the lateral and transverse directions. Additionally although each bar of the linkage is shown as being substantially the same length the lengths may be varied to alter the configuration of the cover plate relative to the base plate . For example rather than being parallel to the base plate the cover plate may instead be angled to one side in the lateral direction L or angled to the front or back in the transverse direction T.

Although the lateral stabilization system has been described as surround the bladder in other embodiments the bladder may include an open cell foam structure disposed inside the bladder to create internal struts and connectors which are flat when the bladder is deflated. In operation the bladder is anchored to the base plate or frame . As the bladder inflates the bladder the structure of the foam or material inside the bladder provides the bladder with lateral stability. In some embodiments the open cell foam structure may be toroidal. In various other embodiments a honeycomb or multi tube structure may be introduced to provide greater lateral stability when the bladder is inflated.

In various embodiments bladder inflation may be accomplished by using compressed gas from a tank such as carbon dioxide CO rather than air supplied by a pump. For example referring to the control system may include one or more COcartridges . The COcartridges are advantageous because they may quickly fill the bladders shown in . Additionally the COcartridges are themselves refillable so they may simply be removed from the control system to be refilled or replaced. Inflation using the one or more COcartridges may also improve the temperature control mechanism shown in because the COmay decrease in temperature as it expands to fill the bladders shown in thereby cooling the user where the user is in contact with the bladders .

Depending upon the degree of amputation of the user of the prosthetic arm in some embodiments it may be desirable to couple some degree of movement of the user s arm with a shortened prosthetic arm for example a prosthetic arm that provides only wrist flexion and hand movement capabilities. Thus referring to a trans radial socket may be provided for trans radial amputees that are still able to pronate and supinate their residuum not shown . The trans radial socket includes a bracket body connected to a cup brace by two hinged brackets . The bracket body includes an outer cylinder portion attached to the hinged brackets and an inner tubular portion partially rotatably fixed within the outer cylinder portion and extending axially outward therefrom to a distal end . In operation the prosthetic arm not shown is mounted to the trans radial socket at the distal end of the inner tubular portion . The user may then insert their residuum into the inner tubular portion . The cup brace may then be slid along their upper arm behind the user s elbow. The hinged brackets allow the user to bend their elbow to move the bracket body . Additionally the user may pronate and or supinate their residuum to rotate the inner tubular portion relative to the outer cylinder portion which in turn causes the prosthetic arm mounted to the inner tubular portion to rotate. Thus the trans radial socket provides for a reduction in the size of the prosthetic arm by eliminating the need for a wrist rotator for users having natural rotation capability in their residuum. This reduction in the size of the prosthetic arm results in a corresponding reduction in weight of the prosthetic arm thereby improving user comfort. Additionally the trans radial socket eliminates the need for the prosthetic arm to provide wrist rotation thereby making the prosthetic arm easier for the user to control by reducing the number of joint movements for which the user must learn new control inputs. Additionally reducing the number of joint movements provided by the prosthetic device may also improve battery power usage and lead to extended battery life.

Referring to an embodiment of a dynamic support system is shown. In some embodiments the dynamic support system includes both hardware and control components for controlling the hardware. In some embodiments the hardware may be the dynamic support apparatus which may include but is not limited to one or more of the following at least one dynamic interface which may include but is not limited to bladder actuators shown in and or strap actuators shown in connectors shown in such as tubing and or other elements to support integration of the dynamic support apparatus . The dynamic support system therefore may include the control systems for executing control logic and or one or more methods for controlling the one or more dynamic interfaces using for example connectors shown in such as tubing and in some embodiments other hardware elements. In some embodiments the dynamic support apparatus and the control system for the dynamic support apparatus may be used with a prosthesis similar to one or more embodiments described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 706 609 filed Feb. 16 2010 and entitled Arm Prosthetic Device now U.S. Publication No. US 2010 0274365 A1 published Oct. 28 2010 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Additionally the dynamic support apparatus may be used together with control systems such as arm control unit for the prosthesis which may be similar to one or more embodiments described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 706 575 filed Feb. 16 2010 and entitled System Method and Apparatus for Control of a Prosthetic Device now U.S. Publication No. US 2010 0268351 A1 published Oct. 21 2010 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 706 471 filed Feb. 16 2010 and entitled System Method and Apparatus for Orientation Control now U.S. Publication No. US 2010 0211185 published Aug. 19 2010 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 027 116 filed Feb. 6 2008 and entitled Method and Apparatus for Control of a Prosthetic now U.S. Publication No. US 2008 0243265 A1 published Oct. 2 2008 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 088 085 filed Apr. 15 2011 and entitled System Method and Apparatus for Control of a Prosthetic Device now U.S. Publication No. US 2011 0264238 A1 published Oct. 27 2011 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. In some embodiments of the dynamic support system the dynamic support apparatus is in communication with both the user s residuum and the prosthesis and is therefore able to vary its configuration as the state of the residuum and or the prosthesis changes. For instance as discussed above the dynamic support apparatus includes a variety of sensors for detecting the condition of the residuum such as temperature sensors and perfusion sensors shown in . Additionally as discussed above the dynamic support apparatus may also receive prosthesis load information and prosthesis function information shown in from the prosthesis . The dynamic support system also includes a variety of interface sensors such as pressure sensors shown in detecting the condition of the interface between the residuum and the dynamic support apparatus . Information from all of these various sensors and sources are used in the dynamic support system to alter the state of the dynamic interface thereby changing the fit of the dynamic support apparatus . The dynamic support system may also include interface stimulators to provide feedback to the user regarding the state of the dynamic interface . For instance the dynamic support system may use tactors to provide vibration or other tactile feedback to the user. Additionally the dynamic support system may also include a variety of passive elements for improving comfort and or fit of the dynamic support apparatus and or for communicating information to the user. For instance the apertures provide passive temperature control and the contact between the dynamic support apparatus and the residuum acts as a passive loading interface stimulator. Thus the dynamic support system provides beneficial integration between the dynamic support apparatus the prosthesis supported by the dynamic support apparatus and the user.

Referring now to in some embodiments the control system shown in includes control unit or dynamic control unit apparatus . The control unit may be a portable electronic device that may be worn on the dynamic support apparatus and or on a belt or other part of a user s clothing. As shown in the user is wearing the control unit on a belt. The control unit is an interface between the dynamic support system and the user. The control unit allows the user to control the mode and or inflation state of the dynamic support apparatus and in some embodiments may indicate the state and or mode of the dynamic support apparatus visually and or using audio. In some embodiments the control unit includes a user interface not shown which may include but is not limited to one or more of the following one or more buttons one or more capacitive switches one or more jog wheels one or more monitors one or more LEDs or other lights and or one or more speakers. The control unit may be in communication with a prosthetic device control unit such as arm control unit for the prosthesis both shown in and or may be integrated with the prosthetic device control unit and may provide advanced information related to functional activity of the prosthesis shown in . As discussed above an example of a prosthetic device control unit is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 706 609 filed Feb. 16 2010 and entitled Arm Prosthetic Device now U.S. Publication No. US 2010 0274365 A1 published Oct. 28 2010 and an example of various control methods and systems for a prosthetic device may be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 706 575 filed Feb. 16 2010 and entitled System Method and Apparatus for Control of a Prosthetic Device now U.S. Publication No. US 2010 0268351 A1 published Oct. 21 2010 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 706 471 filed Feb. 16 2010 and entitled System Method and Apparatus for Orientation Control now U.S. Publication No. US 2010 0211185 published Aug. 19 2010 all of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entireties. The control unit in various embodiments is attached to the dynamic interfaces of the dynamic support system e.g. actuators such as bladders and or straps by way of connectors e.g. flexible tubing for example clear flexible tubing in a flat ribbon configuration as seen in .

In some embodiments the control unit may include multiple user inputs shown in for example buttons each to activate a particular specific support apparatus control mode. For example in some embodiments one or more buttons may be used to function as described below however other embodiments may include additional functionality and still other embodiments may include a function or toggle switch so as to use the same button or user input shown in for multiple functionalities.

In some embodiments the control unit may include a VENT button not shown that when pressed may signal the control system shown in to control all actuators such as bladders to vent and deflate thereby allowing easy donning and doffing of the dynamic support apparatus . In some embodiments where air is used to inflate and deflate actuators the vented air may be routed back into the dynamic support apparatus and across the user s skin to provide a moderate cooling effect for example as discussed in connection with ducts and orifices shown in .

In some embodiments the control unit may include a pressure UP button not shown that when pressed from the vented evacuated or non actuated state may signal the control system shown in to actuate or inflate all the actuators such as bladders in a preprogrammed sequence up to a Baseline inflation pressure. This pressure UP button not shown may advantageously be used in some embodiments of a donning process. The Baseline pressure in some embodiments may be a pressure that permits the dynamic support apparatus to be worn for long periods of time while providing enough stability for moderate activity with the prosthesis shown in . The relationship between the inflation pressure and the contact pressure on the user s tissue is dependent upon a variety of factors including characteristics of the actuators any tissue preload the compliance of the soft tissue and the like.

In some embodiments when the actuators of the dynamic support system shown in are already actuated or inflated the pressure UP button not shown may be used to increase a current pressure setpoint in discrete steps up to a programmed High pressure setting. For example in some embodiments the user may press the pressure UP button not shown before or during heavier or high load activity with the prosthesis shown in . The High pressure setting in some embodiments may be used to provide maximum grip and stability of the dynamic support apparatus with the user within the limits of the dynamic support system shown in . In some embodiments the High pressure setting is not be intended for all day use i.e. the control system shown in may be preprogrammed to limit to amount of time in the High pressure setting to avoid negative effects to the tissue of the user. In some embodiments the control system shown in may be pre programmed such that after meeting a threshold of time in the High pressure setting additional pushes of the pressure UP button not shown may be ignored.

In some embodiments the control unit may include a pressure DOWN button not shown that when pressed decreases the current pressure setpoints for all channels in a stepwise down fashion until a pre programmed Low pressure setting is reached. The Low pressure setting may be the minimum inflation that permits the support to remain stable on the user with the weight of the prosthesis shown in and permit very minimal activity e.g. but not limited to sitting in a chair. In some embodiments once the Low pressure setting is reached additional pushes of the DOWN button not shown may be pre programmed to be ignored by the control unit .

In some embodiments the control unit may include a MASSAGE button not shown for controlling the dynamic support system shown in to enter massage mode. Depression of the MASSAGE button may cause a subset of the bladders to one at a time decrease pressure from the current pressure setpoint to provide relief to the tissue underneath the bladder . For example when the bladders are mostly or heavily inflated one bladder at a time will deflate to the Low pressure setting remain there for several seconds and then re inflate to the current pressure setpoint. The next bladder then deflates etc. In some embodiments where the current pressure setpoint is already near the Low pressure setting the selected bladder may inflate up to the Baseline pressure setting or higher before returning to the Low pressure setting. The massage mode may cycle once or many times depending on user preference and in some embodiments may be exited at any time by pressing any of the other buttons of the control unit .

In some embodiments the various embodiments of the control unit may include a system for controlling the individual inflation and or deflation of the bladders. In some embodiments the control unit may include a system of individually controlling a group of bladders. For example and referring now also to in some embodiments a collective multiple bladders where in some embodiments may include seven bladders as an example may be either individually control unit i.e. the pressure of each bladder may be increased or decreased separately and individually from the other bladders. In some embodiments the bladders may be grouped for example group one may include two bladders group two may include two bladders group three may include two bladders and group four may include one bladder . However these groupings are merely given as an example for illustration purposes and in various other embodiments any one or more of the groupings may include one or more bladders. In some embodiments each bladder may form a group.

Thus in some embodiments one group may be selected for example group one and increasing or decreasing the pressure will increase or decrease the pressure of all of the bladders within the group by the same amount for example bladders . However the remaining groups for example groups two three and four will remain unchanged.

In various embodiments a toggle switch may be used to cycle through the groups . In some embodiments an indication of the currently selected group may include but is not limited to a slight increase or a slight decrease in pressure for the selected group. For example while toggling through the various groups when for example group one is selected bladders in group one may increase decrease in pressure. Then while continuing to toggle group two is selected bladders may increase slightly in pressure. This may continue through all of the available groups. In some embodiments a leak compensation algorithm may be suspended while in toggle mode. In some embodiments toggling may include a predetermined preprogrammed threshold timeout that once met may toggle to a home setting which in some embodiments may be a setting that actuates all of the bladders . In some embodiments the home setting may be the last group that was modified i.e. if the last modification was made to a group for example group two then after a threshold timeout is met the system may return to that group i.e. group two . In some embodiments the home setting may be a global setting where all of the bladders may be modified together. In some embodiments the toggle may used to sequentially cycle through all of the groups individually for example and referring now also to starting at the global setting and toggling to advance to each group in an infinite loop. As discussed above in some embodiments once a modification is made to a specific group and a timeout threshold is met the system once turned on used again may be in the mode to modify the last group modified. In these embodiments toggling will advance to the next group sequentially and in an infinite loop.

Although decreasing or increasing the pressure in the bladders may be used in some embodiments to indicate to the user the current mode in some embodiments LEDs beeps audio signal and or vibratory signals may be used to indicate the mode as the toggle sequence is continued. In some embodiments once the user wakes up the system the control unit may indicate to the user the current mode. For example the system may produce an audio and or vibratory signal and or may light a particular LED. For example in some embodiments and with reference also to LEDs may be included on the control until one for each bladder. In some embodiments if all of the LEDs are energized this may indicate the global setting. In some embodiments the LED s indicating the current setting may become de energized once the system has met the threshold timeout. In some embodiments the LED s may continually be energized to indicate the current setting.

In some embodiments in addition to the various buttons discussed above and additional buttons which may be used on the dynamic control unit the dynamic support system shown in may include one or more remote user inputs and or buttons which may be positioned elsewhere on the user s body on the dynamic support apparatus and or on the prosthesis shown in . Depending on the type of user inputs and where they are mounted a software application may configure the inputs and the resulting functionality to accommodate user needs and or preferences. In some embodiments a single input may be desired and may replicate the functionality of multiple buttons. However in various other embodiments one or more buttons and or user inputs may be positioned remotely from the control unit .

In some embodiments of the dynamic support system shown in the dynamic actuators may include settings for example but not limited to the low baseline and high pressure modes discussed above. These settings may in some embodiments be unique to the user and therefore may be preprogrammed and or re programmed depending on the user s needs.

As one mere example for illustrative purposes the following exemplary description of possible configurations of user customization based on user needs is provided. This exemplary description is provided only for illustrative purposes and is in no way limiting as should be understood by the very customizable characteristics of the settings of the dynamic support system shown in . With respect to the various embodiments of the actuators which may include bladders and or straps with inflatable elements in some illustrative embodiments the actuator settings may be typically inflated to pressures of 4 psi 200 mmHg for a nominal fit of the dynamic support apparatus and 7 psi 350 mmHg where enhanced fixation is needed. In some exemplary embodiments approximately 70 of the inflation pressure plus a constant related to static preload may be required to expand the bladder membrane to the volume typically used in the system. Thus in some embodiments actual tissue contact pressures may therefore be approximately 30 of the inflation pressures plus the constant related to static preload. Similarly in some exemplary embodiments the retaining straps may be pressurized to 2 psi 4 psi 100 mmHg 200 mmHg for a nominal fit and pressures of 6 psi 10 psi 300 mmHg 500 mmHg for a more secure fit. In some embodiments the forces generated by the load straps may be of a similar magnitude as may be generated with manual VELCRO and other strapping systems. Operating pressures may exist on a continuum and may be customized to the user for best fit. The typical pressures discussed herein are for static conditions during activity these pressures may be higher or lower depending on the loads being transferred through the dynamic support apparatus . In some embodiments these typical pressures may be referred to as the Baseline pressures discussed above which are pressures from which a deflation or inflation may be desired and or necessary depending on one or more factors including but not limited to user activity.

Referring back to various embodiments of the dynamic support system may provide benefits to the user which may include but are not limited to one or more of the following increased prosthesis stability through improved engagement with the muscle skeletal system of the user s residuum increased ease of user adjustment of actuator force based on user activity and or reduced don doff effort. The various embodiments of the control system for the dynamic support apparatus may more readily meet the immediate needs of the user and thus provide a varying degree of support to the user in accordance with the activity being performed by the user. In this way the dynamic support apparatus is dynamic and thus the pressure of one or more actuators shown in may vary with activity levels and needs of the user.

Referring now to an embodiment of a method for donning the dynamic support system shown in is shown. In some embodiments the user first locates the dynamic support apparatus shown in onto their body at . Then at the user activates the control system shown in indicating that the dynamic support apparatus shown in has been donned. At the control system shown in in some embodiments may inflate the one or more bladders shown in and or strap actuators shown in to the baseline pressure. This baseline pressure may be as discussed above and or may be any pre determined pressure from which deflation or inflation may be desired and or necessary depending on one or more factors including but not limited to user activity. It is the baseline pressure that serves as a zero or neutral pressure and from which inflation and deflation is measured.

Referring now to once the pressure setpoint has been reached at in some embodiments the control system shown in may shut down close the various valves and pumps at . Once the valves and pumps are closed shutdown the dynamic interface shown in becomes a closed system at since aside from leakage no air enters or exits the bladders shown in and straps shown in . The control system shown in may then begin a leak compensation mode at for detecting leaks from the closed system maintaining the baseline pressure or the current pressure setpoint in the actuators e.g. bladders and or straps shown in .

In various embodiments the leak compensation mode may include monitoring the pressure of each actuator shown in over time at . For example in some embodiments the control system shown in may read the pressure of each bladder shown in at pre determined intervals e.g. every 0.1 seconds. At the control system shown in determines whether there has been a change in the pressure of one or more actuators shown in . For example in some embodiments the control system shown in may compare the instantaneous pressure of each actuator shown in to the desired setpoint pressure for that actuator shown in at pre determined intervals e.g. in one mere exemplary embodiment every 60 seconds . Where the sampled instantaneous pressure is lower than the desired setpoint pressure at the control system shown in may command the pump shown in to add air to that channel in order to increase the pressure in the actuator shown in to the desired setpoint pressure. Conversely where the sampled instantaneous pressure is greater than the desired setpoint pressure at the control system shown in may open the valve shown in associated with the actuator shown in to vent air from the channel in order to decrease the pressure in the actuator shown in to the desired setpoint pressure. In some embodiments a hysteresis or deadband may be added about the pressure setpoint to provide a range of acceptable pressures about the pressure setpoint where no pumping or venting action is required. This hysteresis or deadband advantageously reduces the amount of work required by the control system shown in without greatly sacrificing the stability of the prosthesis shown in .

While determining actuator pressures changes by comparing the instantaneous pressure to the desired pressure setpoint may be advantageous in some situations for detecting pressure changes at such as during low activity in other situations this control may result in unnecessary air pumping and or venting. For instance when the prosthesis shown in is raised up or carrying a load the mechanical forces transmitted by the prosthesis shown in through the dynamic support apparatus shown in to the user s residual anatomy shown in will cause the pressure in each channel and actuator shown in to fluctuate with respect to the setpoint pressure. For example some actuators shown in will undergo compression and have elevated pressures while other actuators will have lower pressures. Thus if the control system shown in controls pumping and or venting based on the instantaneous pressure in these actuators shown in the control system shown in is likely to add and or remove air from the actuators shown in unnecessarily.

Therefore in some embodiments the control system shown in may maintain a constant amount i.e. mass or mols of air in each actuator channel thereby rarely venting and essentially only pumping to make up air lost due to leaking. For example the control system shown in may use the monitored pressure over time in each actuator shown in or actuator channel as a proxy measurement to estimate the amount of air in each actuator channel. In using the monitored pressure to estimate the amount of air in each actuator channel the assumption is made that on average the loading on the actuators is constant which turns out to typically be true as the user tends to keep the prosthesis shown in in a neutral unloaded position near the body and any external loading is transient. Therefore to estimate the amount of air in each actuator channel the control system shown in passes the monitored pressure signal through a low pass filter having a bandwidth sufficiently low to remove most of the pressure transients from the signal. For example in some exemplary embodiments the low pass filter may have a bandwidth of less than 0.1 Hz. In other exemplary embodiments the low pass filter may have other desired bandwidths. With the pressure transients removed from the pressure signal any remaining variations in the filtered pressure signal should be the result of air leakage from the actuator channel or gradual changes in the shape of the residual anatomy shown in that result from the wearing of the dynamic support apparatus shown in changes in temperature and or other physiological responses. Thus the control system shown in may monitor the low pass filtered pressure signal at and periodically supply additional air to the actuators shown in at to account for leaks and the like.

In some embodiments the control system shown in may use pulse density modulation control to apply brief pulses of air to each actuator channel to compensate for leakage. Each pulse of air is separated by an idle time between pulses t in which air is not being supplied. As the leak rate from a particular actuator channel increases the time between pulses t for that channel is decreased by the control system shown in . When the control system shown in is in equilibrium the averaged effect of the air pulses for a particular actuator channel in various embodiments should substantially match the effect of air leakage from that actuator channel. The control system shown in includes control logic for calculating the time between pulses t for each actuator channel based on the low pass filtered pressure measured in that channel. In some embodiments the control logic for determining the time between pulses t may be a function of an error parameter E e.g. a measurement of how far from the desired pressure setpoint the actuator pressure is. In some embodiments the function may be exponential and may take the form 

In this embodiment when the error parameter E becomes smaller i.e. approaching zero the time between pulses t should grow towards the maximum time t. Conversely when the error parameter E becomes larger i.e. approaching the maximum allowable error E the time between pulses t should shrink towards the minimum time t. When a particular actuator channel is being supplied air pulses separated by minimum time t the control effort is considered saturated. Although shown as an exponential function it should be understood by those skilled in the art that the relationship between the time between pulses t and the error parameter E could take many forms including a linear function a quadratic function a cubic function or any other similar polynomial function. For example a linear relationship may be represented by the equation 

The error parameter E may advantageously be determined in a variety of different ways. Referring to an embodiment for determining the error parameter E for a particular channel i at time interval n is shown. In this embodiment the error parameter Eequals an Errorcalculated from the difference between the pressure setpoint Pand the monitored pressure Pafter passing through the low pass filter . In this embodiment when the monitored pressure Ppassed through the low pass filter is lower than the pressure setpoint P e.g. due to air leakage from the channel i the error parameter Eis positive.

Referring to in some embodiments the error parameter E for a particular channel i at a given time interval n may be determined by the control system shown in using a proportional integral derivative PID control unit having a proportional portion an integral portion and a derivative portion . In these embodiments the control system shown in first calculates Errorfrom the difference between the pressure setpoint Pand the monitored pressure Pafter passing through the low pass filter in substantially the same manner as that discussed in connection with . The control system shown in then processes the signal Errorthrough the PID control unit and takes a weighted sum of the output signals from the proportional portion the integral portion and the derivative portion to determine E. In the proportional portion Erroris multiplied by a gain factor k which in some embodiments may simply equal 1 to provide a weighted output signal representative of an instantaneous or present error. In the integral portion the control system shown in calculates the integral of the signal Errorover time to provide an output signal representative of the accumulation of past error. The integral portion includes a gain factor kthat is a leakage factor between 0 and 1 that is applied to the integrated Errorwith each time step n to prevent the integral output signal from growing without bound. The gain factor kmay be dependent upon the rate or pressure sampling for the dynamic pressure data. For example in one exemplary embodiment provided for mere illustrative purposes the gain factor kmay be between 0.93 and 0.99 for a sampling rate of approximately 10 Hz. The output signal from the integral portion is multiplied by a gain factor kto provide the weighted output signal representative of past error. In the derivative portion the control system shown in calculates the derivative of the signal Errorby subtracting the Errorfrom the previous time step to provide an output signal representative of the rate of change of error which advantageously provides the control system shown in with faster response to transients. The output signal from the derivative portion is multiplied by a gain factor kto provide the weighted output signal representative of the rate of change of error. The control system shown in calculates the error parameter Eby taking the weighted sum of the output signals from the proportional portion the integral portion and the derivative portion . The control system shown in may use this error parameter Efor calculating the time between pulses t for each actuator channel i as discussed above.

The control logic discussed above advantageously works in the regime where the error parameter E is between and zero 0 and the maximum allowable error E. However in some situation the control system shown in may determine that the error parameter E is outside of that regime. For example the control system shown in may determine that the error parameter E exceeds the maximum allowable error E which would result in the required time between pulses t to be shorter than the minimum time t. Therefore in the situation where the error parameter E exceeds the maximum error E the control system shown in turns the pump full on to restore the pressure to the desired setpoint pressure.

In some embodiments when the control system shown in implements the control logic discussed above it is possible that when t comes due and a pulse of air should be supplied to a particular actuator shown in the instantaneous pressure within the actuator shown in may higher than what the pump shown in can reasonably supply due to transient external loading. Therefore if the instantaneous pressure is well above the pressure setpoint the control system shown in may defer the air pulse briefly until the instantaneous pressure returns to a reasonable level in which the pump shown in may operate.

In some embodiments when the control system shown in implements the control logic discussed above the monitored pressure Pafter passing through the low pass filter may be above the target pressure setpoint for a long period of time. This may cause the output signal from the integral portion of the PID control unit to become large and negative. To compensate for this the control system shown in may include a pre defined large and negative threshold for the integral portion that when surpassed by the output signal causes the control system shown in to provide one or more brief pulses of venting by opening one or more valves shown in to reduce the pressure in the actuator shown in to a level below the target setpoint pressure which over time brings the output signal from the integral portion back toward zero.

It stands to reason that when the pressure setpoint for a particular channel is higher the leakage rate from that channel will be higher than for the same channel at a lower pressure setpoint. Therefore the leak compensation mode described above may advantageously compensate for higher leakage rates by providing uniform pulses of air more frequently when the pressure setpoint for a channel is higher than when the pressure setpoint is lower. Additionally in some embodiments the control system shown in may vary the pulse duration directly with the operating pressure. Thus when in a higher operating pressure regime longer pulses may partially or completely compensate for the higher leakage rates. As should be understood by those skilled in the art the relationship between setpoint pressure and pulse width may be linear exponential etc.

In some embodiments of the leak compensation mode the control system shown in may advantageously utilize statistics to detect a leaky channel. For example the control system shown in may keep track of how many pulses of air are delivered to each channel over a prolonged period of time to determine an average pulse rate for each channel. The control system shown in may then compare the pulse rates to one or more empirically determined pulse rates calculated based on a nominal system. If the pulse rate for a channel is significantly above the pulse rate for the nominal system the control system shown in may identify the channel as leaky. Additionally or in the alternative the control system shown in may compare the averaged pulse rate of one channel to the pulse rates of one or more other peer channels to determine whether or not a channel is leaky since a leaky channel will require a greater number of pulses compared to its peers over a long period of time to maintain a setpoint pressure.

By implementing the control logic for the leak detection mode as discussed above the control system shown in is able to advantageously monitor the pressure in actuators shown in and to maintain the baseline pressure or the current pressure setpoint. The leak compensation mode may in some embodiments be referred to as a closed loop system where monitoring inflating and deflating may be automatic based on pre set pre determined values e.g. the baseline pressure pressure setpoint and or error threshold. However in some embodiments the closed loop system may be elective by the user and thus the user may instead elect to manually inflate deflate the actuators shown in based e.g. on recommendations from the control system shown in and or based on user desires requirements.

In some embodiments the user may indicate to the control system shown in that they are planning either high intensity or low intensity activity compared with baseline activity. Baseline activity may be that activity which may be performed comfortably and adequately at the baseline pressure.

Referring to the user may indicate to the control system shown in that they are preparing for high intensity activity e.g. using a button or navigating through a menu or the like at . The control system may then inflate increase the pressure setpoint of one or more actuators shown in e.g. bladders and strap actuators shown in at to a high pressure setting. The high pressure setting in some embodiments provides a greater degree of fixation i.e. more tightly coupling the dynamic support apparatus shown in to the user. This increased fixation may allow increased usability of the prosthetic device shown in which may be desired for high intensity activities for example but not limited to lifting a gallon of milk to a high shelf and or carrying heavy loads. The user may then indicate to the control system shown in that the high intensity activity is complete e.g. using a button or navigating through a menu or the like at . Once the user indicates that high intensity activity is complete the control system shown in may decrease the inflation pressure of one or more actuators shown in e.g. bladders and strap actuators shown in at to return to the baseline pressure.

Referring to in some embodiments the user may similarly indicate to the control system shown in that they are preparing for low intensity activity e.g. using a button or navigating through a menu or the like at . The control system may then deflate decrease the pressure setpoint of one or more actuators shown in e.g. bladders and strap actuators shown in at to a low pressure setting. Thus the user is able to command the control system shown in to decrease pressure in the actuators shown in when the user expects a period of time where their activity will be low i.e. the prosthetic device shown in may be in minimal use. In some embodiments the low pressure setting may provide for a relaxed interface fit of the dynamic support apparatus shown in without requiring the user to completely doff the dynamic support apparatus shown in . The user may then indicate to the control system shown in that the low intensity activity is complete e.g. using a button or navigating through a menu or the like at . Once the user indicates that the low intensity activity is complete the control system shown in may increase the inflation pressure of one or more actuators shown in e.g. bladders and strap actuators shown in at to return to the baseline pressure. In some embodiments the user may transition directly from low activity to high activity and vice versa by indicating high activity while in the low activity setting and vice versa e.g. using a button or navigating through a menu or the like . In these embodiments the control system shown in responds as discussed above by inflating the actuators shown in to a high pressure setting to prepare for high activity or by decreasing the actuator pressure to a low pressure setting to prepare for low activity.

Referring back to in some embodiments the control system shown in may infer the user s activity level based on the time history of operating pressures in the various actuators e.g. bladders and straps that are being monitored by the control system shown in . When the control system shown in infers that the user is engaged in heavy activity it may automatically increase one or more pressure setpoints of one or more actuators to improve the fit of the prosthetic support apparatus . Similarly when the control system shown in infers that the user is engaged in low or no activity it may automatically decrease one or more pressure setpoints of one or more actuators to relax the fit of the prosthetic support apparatus . Thus the control system shown in may advantageously permit the prosthetic support apparatus to engage the user less tightly than a conventional prosthetic support during a majority of time when the prosthesis shown in is not being actively used but tightly engage the user during those times when it is necessary due to increased activity.

To infer the user s activity level in some embodiments the control system shown in may determine variability in the operating pressures in the actuators using the pressure time history for the actuators . To determine the variability the control system shown in may include a high pass filter not shown through which the pressure time history may be processed. Applying a high pass filter not shown to the pressure time history with a low bandwidth removes the steady state i.e. DC pressure data and reveals the dynamic i.e. AC pressure data in the signal. This dynamic pressure data is largely the result of external loading transients from motion of the prosthesis shown in and load carrying which is indicative of the user s activity level. For computational efficiency in some embodiments the high pass filter not shown may be realized using the low pass filter shown in and discussed above in connection with the leak compensation mode. To obtain the dynamic pressure data using the low pass filter shown in the control system shown in may subtract the low passed filtered pressure signal from the unfiltered pressure signal.

The control system shown in may take the absolute value of this dynamic pressure data and compare it to a reference pressure that represents the pressure variability for the user engaging in a typical moderate level of activity. When the magnitude of the absolute value of the dynamic data is below this reference pressure the control system shown in infers that the user is engaged in low or no activity. When the magnitude of the absolute value of the dynamic data is above this reference pressure the control system shown in infers that the user is active. In some embodiments the control system shown in affects the comparison to the reference pressure by calculating a conditioned pressure by subtracting the reference pressure value from the absolute value of the dynamic data. The control system shown in may then determine whether the resulting conditioned pressure is greater than zero to evaluate whether the user is engaged in activity.

In some embodiments the control system shown in may augment the activity reference pressure with a deadband that defines typical or moderate activity as a range of pressures rather than just a single pressure. In these embodiments the control system shown in sets the conditioned pressure to zero if it falls within the deadband range and infers activity only when the conditioned pressure is greater than zero i.e. above an upper limit of the deadband range. Likewise the control system shown in may infer inactivity only when the conditioned pressure is less than zero i.e. below a lower limit of the deadband range. The deadband may be symmetric about the activity reference pressure asymmetric about the activity reference pressure or may extend only on one side of the activity reference pressure or the other. The deadband advantageously allows the control system shown in to set a range of dynamic pressure that is considered ordinary or expected with only measurements outside of the deadband range being considered either as activity or inactivity. In some embodiments rather than defining the deadband as existing about the activity reference pressure the control system shown in may instead simply define the deadband as existing between the a high activity reference pressure and a low activity reference pressure.

While the determination of activity or inactivity may be made by the control system shown in from a single pressure reading in most embodiments the determination is preferably based on a trend of activity or inactivity over many pressure readings as observed in time for example at time intervals n. To make the determination the control system shown in may include an accumulator not shown for each actuator channel i. The control system shown in increases the accumulator for a given actuator channel i whenever the control system shown in infers activity for that actuator channel i at time interval n and decreases the accumulator whenever inactivity is inferred at the time interval n. The control system shown in calculates a global activity metric by taking an average of the accumulators not shown across all actuator channels i which provides a global measure of user activity or inactivity. When the global activity metric exceeds some predetermined positive activity threshold the control system shown in concludes that the user is engaged in activity and has been so for some time. Upon such a determination the control system shown in may automatically increase the pressure setpoint of one or more of the actuators to tighten the fit of the dynamic support apparatus . Conversely if the global activity metric becomes less than a predefined negative activity threshold the control system shown in concludes that the user has been in a prolonged period of inactivity. Upon such a determination the control system shown in may automatically decrease one or more of the pressure setpoint s . After making a change to one or more of the pressure setpoints the control system shown in resets all of the accumulators not shown back to zero and restarts the monitoring process.

In some embodiments rather than only accumulating time spent above and below the activity reference the control system shown in may instead calculate an activity metric for each actuator channel i by integrating the conditioned pressure in time. Taking the integral of the conditioned pressure allows the control system shown in to take into account not only whether the conditioned pressure in each actuator channel i is positive or negative but also the extent to which the activity metric is above or below the activity reference pressure. Therefore in these embodiments large and prolonged excursions from the activity reference pressure in an actuator channel i are weighted more heavily than small perturbations in the control system s determination of activity and or inactivity. Accordingly the positive activity thresholds would be crossed much sooner in response to heavy activity than in embodiments where the control system shown in only accumulates time spent above and below the activity reference as discussed above. The time integral of the conditioned pressure has a leakage factor k which ranges from 0 to 1 applied to it to continually force the activity metric towards zero from both the positive and negative directions. This leakage factor kwill in essence provide the accumulated history with a limited memory and prevent the integral term from growing without bound. The gain factor kmay be dependent upon the rate or pressure sampling for the dynamic pressure data. For example in one exemplary embodiment provided for mere illustrative purposes the gain factor kmay be between 0.93 and 0.99 for a sampling rate of approximately 10 Hz.

In some embodiments rather than using the single activity metric for the determination of both activity and inactivity the control system shown in may divide the determination into two separate metrics based on whether the conditioned pressure is positive or negative. For example a positive conditioned pressure would increase the activity metric which would therefore be based on the time integral of only positive conditioned pressures. A negative conditioned pressure would instead be used to increase an inactivity metric based on the time integral of only negative conditioned pressures. In these embodiments the gain factor kmay be applied to both the activity metric and the inactivity metric.

The control system shown in may calculate the global activity metric by taking an average of the activity metrics across all actuator channels i to provide the global measure of user activity. Similarly the control system shown in may calculate a global inactivity metric by taking an average of the inactivity metrics across all actuator channels i to provide the global measure of inactivity. In a manner similar to that discussed above the control system shown in may conclude that the user is engaged in sustained activity when the global activity metric exceeds some predetermined activity threshold. Upon such a determination the control system shown in may automatically increase the pressure setpoint of one or more of the actuators to tighten the fit of the dynamic support apparatus . Similarly the control system shown in may conclude that the user has been in a prolonged period of inactivity if the global inactivity metric passes some predefined inactivity threshold. Upon such a determination the control system shown in may automatically decrease one or more of the pressure setpoint s .

Splitting the global activity metric into separate global activity and inactivity metrics allows the control system shown in to be more responsive to user activity than with the single global activity metric. For example with only the single global activity metric a prolonged period of inactivity that does not exceed the inactivity threshold must be overcome by user activity to first bring the global activity metric back from a large and negative value through zero and on up to the activity threshold in order for activity to be detected. With the separate activity and inactivity metrics during a prolonged period of inactivity the activity metric will be clamped at zero. Thus if a user then begins a period of heavy activity the activity threshold will be crossed much sooner because the activity metric may begin to grow immediately independently of how long the user engaged in activity thereby providing for improved activity detection. Simultaneously the inactivity metric may advantageously be decayed back toward zero. Thus separate activity and inactivity metrics advantageously allow the control system shown in to be programmed to require a concerted and sustained period of activity or inactivity to reach either threshold for changing the inflation pressure setpoint. Additionally the split activity and inactivity metrics allow the control system shown in to be tuned to be more immune to pressure perturbations caused by pulse density modulation discussed above which appear to the control system shown in as user activity in the dynamic pressure data.

Referring back to in other embodiments the control system may estimate user activity directly from information obtained from the prosthesis . For example using its own sensors not shown the prosthesis can estimate the load being applied to one or more of its joints.

In some embodiments a load cell not shown installed at an interface between the dynamic support apparatus and the prosthesis may measure an aggregate load that is being transferred from the prosthesis to the residual anatomy through the dynamic support apparatus . The control system may estimate user activity at least in part upon the measured aggregate load. For example the aggregate load measurements may be transmitted to the control system e.g. through wireless data transmission and the control system may analyze that data to infer the user s activity level. In some embodiments the control system may calculate the time derivative of the forces wherein a large time derivative of force indicates a load that is rapidly changing and a small time derivative of force indicates a load that is not changing. The control system may process this information in a manner similar to the pressure time history as described above to produce either a single global activity metric or split activity and inactivity metrics as discussed above. These metrics may be used by the control system in substantially the same manner as the pressure based metrics discussed above to determine whether to increase or decrease one or more pressure setpoints.

Although described separately for simplicity in some embodiments the pressure based activity and inactivity metrics from each actuator channel i may be combined with the metrics produced from load data obtained from the prosthesis and or from measurement of the aggregate loading at the interface between the prosthesis and the dynamic support apparatus . For instance in some embodiments the metrics may be combined as a weighted sum and the combined result used in determining whether to increase or decrease one or more pressure setpoints.

In some embodiments the control system may have one or more biasing mechanisms to ensure that having made a change to one or more pressure setpoints in one direction e.g. increasing or decreasing the next change in that same direction is less likely. The one or more biasing mechanisms ensure that a small twitch while at a low inflation setting which the control system may characterize as high activity does not quickly result in the dynamic support apparatus being inflated to its maximum amount.

In some embodiments as the biasing mechanism the control system may adjust the activity reference pressure directly with pressure setpoint. For example when the dynamic support apparatus is at a high inflation state it should be because the user is engaged in higher activity such as carrying a heavier load. In such a situation one would expect a greater dynamic pressure content commensurate with that higher activity. Therefore when the dynamic support apparatus is at a high inflation state the control system may increase the activity reference pressure since the activity reference pressure is a measure of what is a typical activity level. Thus the control system may use the biasing mechanism to discount the activity that is detected when at higher pressures while simultaneously making inactivity more pronounced. Similarly when the dynamic support apparatus is at a low inflation state the biasing mechanism will tend to amplify the effect of even moderate activity. The biasing mechanism may provide a linear relationship between the activity reference pressure and the inflation state or may provide some other desired relationship.

In some embodiments the control system may change the activity threshold and inactivity threshold with pressure setpoint as the biasing mechanism. In these embodiments the control system will typically adjust the activity and inactivity thresholds in concert i.e. both raising or lowering together though not necessarily by the same magnitude. For instance when the dynamic support apparatus is at a high inflation state the activity threshold may be much higher than when the dynamic support apparatus is at a low inflation state. The separation between the activity and inactivity thresholds may be constant across the whole inflation range or in some embodiments may be varied by the control system . This biasing mechanism may also provide a linear relationship between the activity and inactivity thresholds and the inflation state or may provide some other desired relationship. Thus the control system is able to advantageously alter the size of the deadband range within which dynamic pressure changes are considered normal activity. For example in one illustrative embodiment the deadband range may narrow and approach zero at a low inflation state but may rise and broaden at higher inflation levels.

In some embodiments the control system may alter the deadband applied in determining the activity and inactivity metrics as the biasing mechanism. For example at a low inflation state the control system may reduce the upper deadband threshold and may increase the lower deadband threshold. Conversely at a high inflation state the control system may increase the upper deadband threshold while reducing the lower deadband threshold. The total width of the deadband range may be constant across the whole inflation range or may be varied by the control system . Although these biasing mechanisms have been described separately for simplicity those knowledgeable in the art should recognize that the biasing mechanism could also be any combination of those discussed above.

Thus the control system may advantageously automatically adjust to an appropriate pressure setting for a current level of activity and may maintain that pressure setting until a change in the level of activity is detected. Additionally by detecting inactivity in addition to activity the pressure setpoints may be reduced by a pre determined amount after a period of inactivity so that the control system has a tendency to minimize the amount of pressure applied by the dynamic support apparatus to the user thereby improving user comfort and preventing adverse affects to the user s tissue contacted by the dynamic support apparatus .

Referring to in some embodiments the control system shown in may also include an auto relief system in the leak compensation mode to ensure the one or more actuators shown in e.g. bladders straps are not at a high pressure for so long a time that the user s tissue may be adversely affected for example where the user s tissue may experience inadequate blood supply or circulation to a local region secondary to blockage of blood vessels to that region. Thus at the control system shown in monitors the pressure in one or more actuators shown in as discussed above. The control system shown in then evaluates whether the monitored pressure exceeds a pre determined safety threshold at . In some embodiments the safety threshold may be a function of time and pressure for example by comparing an integral of the monitored pressure to the safety threshold thereby accounting for both the magnitude of and duration at an elevated pressure. If the control system shown in determines that the monitored pressure of one or more actuators shown in e.g. bladders straps exceeds the safety threshold at e.g. in some combination of magnitude and duration that actuator shown in is identified by the control system shown in and the control system shown in automatically starts an auto relief mode at to alleviate the pressure on the tissue.

For example where any one or more bladders shown in and or straps shown in has been maintained at a high pressure for a long period of time e.g. longer than a pre set period of time that may be considered acceptable for user health this bladder shown in and or strap shown in may be determined to have exceeded the safety threshold by the control system shown in . The control system shown in may then enter into the auto relief mode at for a pre determined amount of time. In the auto relief mode the control system shown in may vent the identified bladder shown in and or strap shown in to a lower pressure for a pre determined amount of time followed by partial re inflation of the identified bladder shown in and or strap shown in for a pre determined amount of time which may in some embodiments encourage perfusion of the user s tissue.

Once the control system shown in determines that the auto relief criteria has been met at the control system shown in may return the bladder shown in and or strap shown in to the pressure inflation level at which it was before the auto relief mode was initiated. In some embodiments the control system shown in may limit the auto relief mode to one bladder shown in and or strap shown in at any one time. This may advantageously maintain stability of the dynamic support apparatus shown in so that the user may continue regular activity during the auto relief mode with minimum negative effect.

Although the auto inflate auto deflate and auto relief systems have been described separately herein for simplicity it should be understood by those skilled in the art that the auto inflate auto deflate system and the auto relief system as well as other control systems may be combined and integrated into the leak compensation mode discussed above for improved functionality.

In some embodiments the control system for the dynamic support system shown in may be configured using a software application through for example a personal computer. In some embodiments using this software application the number and types of actuators shown in may be configured along with their operating pressures. The software application may be in some embodiments used to configure user inputs for example whether integral to the control unit or remote for controlling operation of one or more features of the dynamic support system shown in . System faults may also be diagnosed through the software application. In some embodiments the software application may be used by prosthetists as part of the fitting process for the dynamic support apparatus shown in . In some embodiments the software application or another software application may be used by the user to update the settings of the dynamic support system shown in and or to reprogram re assign the user inputs to the elected functionality.

In some embodiments the user may indicate to the control system shown in for example in some embodiments by pressing a button or otherwise navigating through a menu using the control unit shown in that the user is preparing to doff the dynamic support apparatus shown in . In some embodiments the control system shown in may then deflate eliminate pressures from the bladders shown in and or straps shown in . The reduced fixation from deflating the bladders shown in and or straps shown in increases the ease with which the user may doff the dynamic support apparatus shown in . In some embodiments following doffing the user may attach the control unit shown in to a charger or may otherwise charge the control unit shown in using wireless charging and or replacing the batteries power source.

Referring to according to some embodiments a donning stand may be provided to facilitate donning and doffing of the dynamic support apparatus shown in with the prosthetic device shown in attached thereto. The donning tree includes a vertical tower with a base at its lower end for contacting an underlying surface and for supporting the vertical tower in an upright position. The vertical tower has a substantially horizontal arm support adjustably coupled thereto such that a height of the arm support from the base may be adjusted by moving the arm support along at least a portion of a length of the vertical tower . Once a desired height is reached the arm support may be locking in position by a securing mechanism not shown . The vertical tower also includes a recharging tray coupled thereto for supporting and charging one or more batteries of the control system shown in of the dynamic support apparatus shown in and or of the prosthetic device shown in . The recharging tray may include one or more charging outlets not shown or may include a wireless charging pad for charging one or more batteries simultaneously. The arm support includes an elbow yoke at its end proximate the vertical tower and a handle at its distal end. The elbow yoke is configured to accommodate an elbow not shown of the prosthetic device shown in and in some embodiments may be configured to accommodate the elbow not shown in a particular configuration such as an elbow actuated to approximately 90 degrees of flexion. The handle is positioned such that when the prosthetic elbow not shown is positioned in the elbow yoke a prosthetic hand not shown of the prosthetic device shown in may wrap naturally around the handle and grip it.

In operation the height of the arm support of the donning stand may advantageously be adjusted to accommodate a particular user. Once adjusted to the desired height the user may doff the prosthetic arm shown in and the dynamic support apparatus shown in on the donning stand by positioning the prosthetic elbow not shown in the elbow yoke and gripping the prosthetic hand not shown to the handle . The user may then remove the dynamic support apparatus shown in which is supported by the donning stand through the prosthetic device shown in . The user may also store accessories such as the control unit shown in of the dynamic support shown in on the recharging tray to recharge said accessories. Thus advantageously if the user employs the donning stand for supporting the prosthetic device shown in and the dynamic support apparatus shown in overnight the prosthetic device shown in and the dynamic support apparatus shown in remain pre positioned on the donning stand for optimal donning in the morning. Additionally the recharging tray will recharge the batteries of the prosthetic device shown in and or the dynamic support apparatus shown in so that each are ready for use the next morning.

In some embodiments of the control unit the battery may be as discussed above rechargeable. In some embodiments a Litz wire coil is used for recharging the battery. The Litz wire coil is located in the control unit. As discussed above in some embodiments a recharging tray may be used for wirelessly recharging the control unit. However in some embodiments where the Litz wire coil and wireless recharging is used another embodiment of the recharging tray may be used. Referring now to an embodiment of a recharging tray is shown. In the embodiment shown the recharging tray includes a preformed control unit section to accommodate the various embodiments of the control unit for recharging. In some embodiments a ferrite shield is included to shield the areas around the Litz wire coil which is located in the embodiment shown in the Litz wire coil area . This recharging tray system may be desirable to prevent over heating of components within the control unit while allowing recharging using a Litz wire coil. In some embodiments the control unit may be recharged via USB or other wired charging system device.

Referring now also to in some embodiments the control unit may be recharged using a recharging base station which in some embodiments may be a charging cradle including a charging station interface to the control unit charging interface shown in . In some embodiments the charging station interface includes contacts and spring pins which interact with the control unit charging interface . In some embodiments the charging cradle includes a reed switch connected to wires . The control unit includes at least one magnet not shown in proximity to the control unit charging interface which activates the reed switch to complete a circuit close the reed switch. Thus the reed switch acts also as a proximity switch. Thus the reed switch and the contacts in the charging station interface are inactive until and unless the control unit charging interface is in close proximity to the charging station interface . In some embodiments a metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistor MOSFET may be used together with a reed switch.

In some embodiments the shape and or size of the recharging base station may vary. In some embodiments the recharging base station may include wires connects to a charging adapter which in some embodiments may be an AC adapter which may plug into an outlet to receive a charge and communicate the charge to the recharging base station .

Referring now also to a system for recharging a control unit is shown. In this embodiment the system includes a recharging base station a charging adapter and a control unit . The recharging base station is configured to receive the control unit .

The dynamic support apparatus is advantageous for many reasons including but not limited to because it is able to compensate for shape changes of the residuum and or loading from a prosthetic device by actuating the actuators. Additionally when the actuators actuate compliant tissue surrounding the bone within the residuum is displaced thereby minimizing the amount of soft compliant tissue between the dynamic support apparatus and the bone within the residuum. This advantageously provides for a more stable and responsive interface between the dynamic support apparatus and the residuum. The dynamic support apparatus is also advantageous because various actuators may be actuated and unactuated at different times to improve blood flow within the residuum without losing the overall stability of the dynamic support apparatus.

It should be understood that the various embodiments described herein are examples and that other embodiments are contemplated. Also values given in the various examples serve as one example and the various systems and methods described herein are not limited to the values given. Further in use various methods and systems may vary based on the user.

The dynamic support apparatus is also able to advantageously detect the pressure and or force provided by each actuator and to compensate for changes in the detected pressure and or force. Thus the dynamic support apparatus is able to self compensate for pressure and or force changes to provide increased securing forces and tighten the dynamic support apparatus only when necessary and to loosen the dynamic support apparatus when the prosthetic device is under lower load. This minimizes the perceived weight of the prosthetic device which may allow the user to adorn the prosthetic device and dynamic support apparatus for a greater time than with a conventional prosthesis.

Although the dynamic support apparatus is illustrated for use with an upper limb prosthesis the support apparatus is adaptable to other body appliances such as ski boots shoes backpacks helmets lower limb prostheses braces worn around a body part or anything designed to be worn around a body part.

While the principles of the invention have been described herein it is to be understood by those skilled in the art that this description is made only by way of example and not as a limitation as to the scope of the invention. Other embodiments are contemplated within the scope of the present invention in addition to the exemplary embodiments shown and described herein. Modifications and substitutions by one of ordinary skill in the art are considered to be within the scope of the present invention.

