---

title: Silicon-germanium hydrides and methods for making and using same
abstract: The present invention provides novel silicon-germanium hydride compounds, methods for their synthesis, methods for their deposition, and semiconductor structures made using the novel compounds.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08518360&OS=08518360&RS=08518360
owner: 
number: 08518360
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120706
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 093 279 filed Sep. 3 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 216 537 which claims priority to U.S. national phase entry of International Application No. PCT US2006 45091 filed Nov. 21 2006 which claim the benefits of U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 60 739 528 filed Nov. 23 2005 and 60 764 128 filed Feb. 1 2006 the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein.

This work was supported by National Science Foundation grant DMR 0221993 thus the U.S. government may have certain rights in the invention.

The present application relates generally to the fields of chemistry optoelectronics silicon germanium alloys semiconductor structures and related methods and devices.

Heteroepitaxial GeSilayers on Si 100 with high Ge contents are of interest due to many applications in key technologies such as solar cells MEMS quantum cascade lasers and Si based photonicsincluding high speed modulators and photodetectors.However these materials are much less developed in spite of this high impact potential in IR optical devices. In addition they serve as virtual substrates for growth of high mobility strained Si and Ge device channels and are also considered as a potential pathway to monolithic integration of III V based devices with Si technologies.The best current route to these materials is complicated and fraught with difficulties requiring both high temperature growth of thick 10 m compositionally graded films and a chemical mechanical planarization step to relieve the misfit strain between the GeSiepilayer and Si substrate and produce a flat surface respectively.

To circumvent these difficulties we have recently developed new chemical vapor deposition CVD heteroepitaxy to produce device quality strain relieved Ge rich films on Si without the need for graded compositions.Our strategy involves depositions of single source hydride precursors with direct Si Ge bonds such as the HGe SiH x 1 4 family of compounds. These are routinely synthesized with semiconductor grade purity via straightforward methodologies utilizing commercially available starting materials.Their physical and chemical properties such as high volatility and facile reactivity make them particularly useful as reagents in low temperature film growth by CVD and gas source molecular beam epitaxy GSMBE . Our initial growth experiments have yielded single crystal films with compositions SiGe SiGe SiGeand SiGe precisely matching those of the corresponding precursors SiHGeH HGe SiH HGe SiH and HGe Si.Our results demonstrate that exact control of the composition structure and strain at the atomic level can be achieved via incorporation of the entire Si Ge framework of the precursors into the film. The resulting films are of much higher quality than those previously reported using conventional sources and grow at much lower temperatures that are compatible with CMOS technology.

Within this compositional range the SiGesemiconductor system is of particular importance because it possesses the ideal lattice dimensions to integrate fully strained Si channels exhibiting high electron mobilities into metal oxide silicon field effect transistors MOSFETS . Thus these materials are ideally suited for immediate technological applications in high speed devices. However in our experiments we have observed that stoichiometric SiGe with the required device quality properties surface planarity low defect densities can only be grown near a maximum temperature of 450 C. at a growth rate of only 0.2 nm min which is too low to be practical for high throughput device fabrication. Negligible film growth was observed at lower temperatures via HGeSiH while films with rough surfaces and high dislocation densities were obtained above 500 C. due to the thermal mismatch with the substrate.

The synthesis of new compounds with increased reactivities and improved properties for device fabrication relative to HGeSiHwould be of great value in the art.

In this study we synthesize and fully characterize the butane like GeH SiH 1 compound containing highly reactive HSi SiH functionalities rather than SiH . The HSi SiHdimeric unit has been identified as the dominant reactive intermediate in high temperature CVD via decomposition of conventional Si hydrides. These species lead to highly efficient growth of homoepitaxial Si.Precursor 1 is specifically designed to incorporate these necessary HSi SiH building blocks and provide a new low temperature route for development of a broad range of Si containing materials. Here we demonstrate the utility of 1 to produce device quality SiGealloys at unprecedented low temperatures of 350 C. A 10 fold improvement in the growth rate 2.0 nm min is achieved at 350 C. relative to growth 0.2 nm minute at 450 C. via SiHGeHleading to uniformly stressed or strain relaxed thin films directly on Si with planar surfaces and remarkably reduced dislocation densities. En route to 1 we have produced the isobutane analog GeH SiH SiH 2 and have also isolated and fully characterized the Ge rich derivative GeH SiHGeH 3 . The latter is a moderately volatile liquid with potential applications in low temperature synthesis of Ge rich optoelectronic alloys.

In one aspect the present invention provides compounds comprising a silicon germanium hydride of formula I SiH GeH 

In a second aspect the present invention provides semiconductor structures comprising a substrate and an Si Ge layer formed by introducing near the surface of a substrate a gaseous precursor comprising one or more compounds according to formula I.

In further aspect the invention provides semiconductor structures comprising a substrate and an Si Ge layer comprising a backbone of one or more compounds according to formula I.

In a third aspect the present invention provides methods for synthesizing one or more silicon germanium hydrides of formula I comprising combining a compound selected from the group consisting of a nonafluorobutane sulfonic substituted disilane and a triflate substituted disilane with a compound comprising a GeHligand under conditions whereby the silicon germanium hydride is formed.

In a fourth aspect the present invention provides methods for depositing a Si Ge material on a substrate in a reaction chamber comprising introducing into the chamber a gaseous precursor comprising one or more compounds according to formula I under conditions whereby a layer comprising a Si Ge material is formed on the substrate.

In a fifth aspect the present invention provides methods for depositing an epitaxial Si Ge layer on a substrate comprising introducing at or near a surface of the substrate a gaseous precursor comprising one or more compounds of formula I and dehydrogenating the precursor under conditions whereby epitaxial Si Ge is formed on the substrate.

In a seventh aspect the present invention provides methods for synthesizing SOCF SiH comprising combining p tolyl SiH and HSOCFunder conditions whereby the SOCF SiH is formed.

All publications patents and patent applications cited herein are hereby expressly incorporated by reference for all purposes.

As used herein the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise.

In one aspect the present invention provides compounds comprising or consisting of a silicon germanium hydride of formula I SiH GeH 

As used herein the phrase to satisfy valency means to maintain tetra valency of each Si and Ge atom in the compounds of the invention.

As demonstrated herein compounds according to formula I can be used for example in controlled depositions to produce stoichiometric SiGe films possessing desired properties for semiconductor applications including perfectly crystalline and epitaxial microstructures smooth morphologies and uniformly strain relaxed states. The compounds of formula I are herein demonstrated to be remarkably stable over extended periods of time and thus represent viable molecular sources for potential industrial applications.

Thus in one embodiment of this first aspect x is 2 in an alternative embodiment x is 3 in a further alternative embodiment x is 4. In embodiments where x is 2 y can be 1 2 or 3 preferably 2 or 3 most preferably 2. In embodiments where x is 3 y can be 1 or 2 preferably 2. In embodiments where x is 4 y is 1.

In a further embodiment of this first aspect x is 2 or 3 with the proviso that if y is 1 then n2 is 0 1 or 2 and with the further proviso that if x is 2 and y is 2 then at least one of the following is true 

In a still further embodiment y is 2 or 3 and x y is 4 or 5 with the proviso that if x is 2 and y is 2 then at least one of the following is true 

Compounds according to formula I include any conformational form of the compound including but not limited n g and iso forms of the compounds and combinations thereof.

Exemplary silicon germanium hydrides according to formula I comprise or consist of those compounds listed in Table 1. All Si and Ge atoms in the compounds are tetravalent. Dashed lines represent bonds between Si and Ge atoms in the linear versions. In the isobutene and isopentane like isomers the Si and Ge atoms inside the brackets are directly bound to the Si or Ge to the left of the brackets the Si or Ge in parenthesis outside of the brackets at the far right in some of the compounds are directly bound to the last Si or Ge inside of the brackets.

For example shows compound i Si SiGeGe . As noted in Table 1 this compound is also referred to as SiH SiH GeH .

In a preferred embodiment the silicon germanium hydride is selected from the group consisting of SiH SiH GeH GeH SiH GeH SiH GeH SiH GeH GeH SiH and GeH SiH SiH GeH and SiH SiH GeH .

This first aspect also provides compositions comprising combinations of the silicon germanium hydrides. In a preferred embodiment of such combinations x is 3 and y is 1 or x is 2 and y is 2 for each of the two or more compounds. In a most preferred embodiment the combination comprises compounds selected from the group consisting of SiH SiH GeH GeH SiH GeH SiH GeH SiH GeH GeH SiH and GeH SiH SiH GeH and SiH SiH GeH .

In a further embodiment the compounds of the invention are substantially isolated. As used herein a substantially isolated compound of the invention is one compound or two or more compounds of the invention in combination that are at least 75 isolated from precursors and other contaminants and preferably 80 85 90 95 98 or more isolated.

In a second aspect the present invention provides semiconductor structures comprising a substrate and an Si Ge layer formed by introducing near the surface of a substrate a gaseous precursor comprising or consisting of one or more silicon germanium hydride compounds of formula I.

As shown herein the silicon germanium hydride compounds of formula I are especially useful for fabricating SiGe semiconductor alloys at unprecedented low temperatures that display homogeneous compositional and strain profiles low threading dislocation densities and atomically planar surfaces. Controlled depositions have produced stoichiometric SiGe films reflecting the Si Ge content of the precursor and possessing the desired properties for semiconductor applications including perfectly crystalline and epitaxial microstructures smooth morphologies and uniformly strain relaxed states.

In this aspect the substrate can be any substrate suitable for semiconductor or flat panel display use including but not limited to silicon germanium silicon on insulator Ge Sn alloys SiO sapphire quartz Si Ge alloys Si C alloys stainless steel polyimide or other polymer films such as those used in the fabrication of flexible displays. In a preferred embodiment the substrate comprises Si 100 .

In a preferred embodiment the semiconductor substrates of this aspect of the invention have an SiGe layer which comprises an SiGe film having a thickness of less than one micron more preferably a thickness in a range from 50 nm to 500 nm. In a further preferred embodiment the semiconductor substrates of this second aspect have an SiGe layer comprising an SiGe film having a density of threading defects of 10 cmor less. In a further preferred embodiment the semiconductor substrates of this aspect of the invention comprise an SiGe film having a substantially atomically planar surface morphology.

In various embodiments the gaseous precursor comprises or consists of one or more of the compounds listed in Table 1 each in n or g forms and stereoisomers thereof.

In a preferred embodiment of the semiconductor substrates of the second aspect the gaseous precursor comprises or consists of a compound selected from the group consisting of SiH SiH GeH GeH SiH GeH SiH GeH SiH GeH GeH SiH GeH SiH SiH GeH and SiH SiH GeH .

The semiconductor structure may further comprise other features as desired including but not limited to the inclusion of dopants such as boron phosphorous arsenic and antimony. These embodiments are especially preferred for semiconductor substrates used as active devices. Inclusion of such dopants into the semiconductor substrates can be carried out by standard methods in the art.

In a further embodiment the semiconductor structure may further comprise varying quantities if carbon or tin as desired for a given application. Inclusion of carbon or tin into the semiconductor substrates can be carried out by standard methods in the art. The carbon can be used to reduce the mobility of the dopants in the structure and more specifically boron. Incorporation of Sn can yield materials with novel optical properties such as direct emission and absorption leading to the formation of Si based lasers and high sensitivity infrared photodetectors.

In further aspect the invention provides semiconductor structures comprising a substrate and an Si Ge layer comprising or consisting of a backbone of one or more compounds according to the formula I. Preferred embodiments are as described above.

In a further aspect the invention provides a composition comprising one or more compounds according to formula 1 in an inert gas. Such inert gases include but are not limited to H He N and argon. Preferred embodiments are as described above.

By using the compounds of formula I as precursors for preparing semiconductor substrates the semiconductor substrate will comprise an Si Ge layer comprising or consisting of a backbone of the compounds of the invention. By using the compounds of the invention as opposed to the separate use of Si and Ge sources for deposition the resulting Si Ge layer comprises highly defined and uniform bonding arrangements and strain compensated Si Ge atomic patterns as opposed to the random nature of prior Si Ge films in which the Si and Ge atoms can exist as an intimate mixture of several or multi atom Si and Ge clusters leading to inhomogeneous bonding and locally stressed configurations. In mismatched heteroepitaxy applications these materials exhibit copious dislocations at levels unacceptable for most device applications strain non uniformities and high surface roughness. A distinct and important advantage of our compounds films and methods over conventional ones is that the incorporation of the entire Si Ge molecular core promotes the formation of exceptionally uniform bonding arrangements over the entire crystal leading to relaxed or uniformly stressed films with planar surface morphology no surface ripples . A crucial advantage is the unprecedented low growth temperatures which reduce surface mobility of the Si and Ge atoms and prevent mass segregation thereby resulting in highly uniform compositional and strain profiles at the atomic level.

The intact incorporation of the massive Si Ge cores into the film also leads to low surface diffusion and high sticking coefficients compared to the conventional low mass compounds. The high reactivity permits promotes high growth rates which increase systematically with the mass of the precursors

Furthermore the incorporation of the entire Si Ge framework of the gaseous precursor into the lattice is particularly important in the formations of SiGe nanoscale systems quantum dots and wires because it allows precise control of morphology tunable composition and structure that cannot be accomplished by vapor deposition of separate silanes and germanes or by molecular beam epitaxy of solid Si and Ge sources. The precise control of composition and corresponding morphology both of which ultimately determine the physical properties of these nanoscale materials is a crucial issue. Any compositional variations that exist within and among individual nanostructures will have a significant impact on the optical and electronic properties and on the performance of devices. In the MBE case an average concentration is assigned on the basis of the flux ratio utilized to grow the materials. In the CVD approach the local stoichiometry on the scale of the nanostructure size is even less certain because reactions of various molecular sources cannot be simultaneously controlled at every site throughout the sample. Thus neither technique can guarantee systematic growth of Si Ge nanoscale structures with controllable composition strain and size.

Such highly defined patterns can be determined using standard methods in the art such as neutron diffraction

An example of an Si Ge layer comprising a backbone of the compounds of the invention can be found in which shows an exemplary sequence of macromolecular polymeric units of the invention based on interconnected GeH SiH monomers a d en route to a diamond cubic Si Ge lattice with concentration GeSi SiGe e . This material incorporates the Ge Si Si Ge molecular core of GeH SiH as the structural and compositional building block.

Thus the compounds of the invention can be used to form a random alloy with intimate mixing of the elements using the GeSiSiGe precursors of formula I. The resulting Si Ge backbone structure consists of polymerized units of the starting compound of the invention wherein polymerization requires dehydrogenation.

As will be understood by those of skill in the art other macromolecular polymeric units of the invention based on one or more other polymerized compounds of the invention can also lead to Si Ge lattices with a desired concentration of Ge and Si based on the concentration of each in the compound used.

In a third aspect the present invention provides methods for synthesizing one or more silicon germanium hydrides of formula I SiH GeH wherein the method comprises combining one or more perfluoroalkyl sulfonate substituted disilane with a compound comprising a GeHligand under conditions whereby the silicon germanium hydride is formed. In a preferred embodiment the perfluoroalkyl sulfonate substituted disilane is selected from the group consisting of a nonafluorobutane sulfonic substituted disilane and a triflate substituted disilane

Thus this aspect provides methods for making the compounds of formula I. The synthetic routes described herein utilize high yield single step substitution reactions to yield semiconductor grade materials suitable for industrial application and manufacturing processes.

In one embodiment of this third aspect the compound comprising a GeHligand is selected from the group consisting alkali and alkaline earth germanides. In a preferred embodiment the alkali or alkaline earth germanides are selected from the group consisting of KGeH NaGeH and MRGeH wherein M is a group IV element and R is an organic ligand.

In a further embodiment of this third aspect the method comprises combining the compound comprising a GeHligand with a nonafluorobutane sulfonic substituted disilane wherein the nonafluorobutane sulfonic substituted disilane comprises SOCF SiH . In other embodiments entire families of perfluoroalkyl sulfonyl and alkyl sulfonyl substituted silanes or germanes can be used. More preferably the compound comprising a GeHligand is KGeH and the silicon germanium hydride is formed according to the equation SOCF SiH 2KGeH HGe SiH 2KSOCF. Even more preferably the method comprises 

 a adding SOCF SiH to a slurry of KGeHin solvent at between 50 C. and 30 C. more preferably about 40 C. to form a mixture 

In an alternative embodiment of this third aspect the method comprises combining the compound comprising a GeHligand with a triflate substituted disilane and wherein the triflate substituted disilane comprises SOCF SiH . More preferably the compound comprising a GeHligand is KGeH and the silicon germanium hydride is formed according to the equation SOCF SiH 2KGeH HGe SiH 2KSOCF. Even more preferably the method comprises

 a adding SOCF SiH to a slurry of KGeHin solvent at between 40 C. and 10 C. more preferably about 30 C. to form a mixture 

In this embodiment low temperature T 10 C. reactions of SOCF SiH with KGeHafforded predominately HGe SiH and impurity levels of GeH SiHGeH . These species can be separated by distillation. In contrast to the low temperature pathways the reaction of SOCF SiH with KGeHat T 22 C. yields predominately combinations of the positional isomers GeH SiH and GeH SiH SiH in varying proportions a small amount of GeH SiHGeH is also produced but this is readily separated form the bulk via fractional distillation from the SOCF SiH and GeH SiHGeH mixture.

In a fourth aspect the present invention provides methods for depositing a Si Ge material on a substrate in a reaction chamber comprising introducing into the chamber a gaseous precursor comprising or consisting of one or more compounds according to formula I under conditions whereby a layer comprising a Si Ge material is formed on the substrate.

In a fifth aspect the present invention provides methods for depositing an epitaxial Si Ge layer on a substrate comprising introducing near a surface of the substrate a gaseous precursor comprising or consisting of one or more compounds according to formula I and dehydrogenating the precursor under conditions whereby epitaxial Si Ge is formed on the substrate.

In this aspect the substrate can be any substrate suitable for semiconductor or flat panel display use including but not limited to silicon germanium silicon on insulator Ge Sn alloys SiOsapphire quartz Si Ge alloys Si C alloys stainless steel polyimide or other polymer films. In a preferred embodiment the substrate comprises Si 100 .

Embodiments of the gaseous precursors are as described above for previous aspects of the invention. For example the methods may further comprise adding a dopant on the substrate including but not limited to the inclusion of dopants such as boron phosphorous arsenic and antimony. These embodiments are especially preferred for semiconductor substrates used as active devices. Inclusion of such dopants into the semiconductor substrates can be carried out by standard methods in the art.

In another embodiment the methods comprise adding varying quantities if carbon or tin to the semiconductor substrate. Inclusion of carbon or tin into the semiconductor substrates can be carried out by standard methods in the art. The carbon can be used to reduce the mobility of the dopants in the structure and more specifically boron. Incorporation of Sn can yield materials with novel optical properties such as direct emission and absorption leading to the formation of Si based lasers and high sensitivity infrared photodetectors.

As demonstrated herein the silicon germanium hydrides of the invention were used to deposit device quality layers on substrates that display homogeneous compositional and strain profiles low threading dislocation densities and atomically planar surfaces.

In a preferred embodiment of the fourth and fifth aspects of the invention the step of introducing the gaseous precursor comprises introducing the gaseous precursor in substantially pure form. In a further preferred embodiment the step of introducing the gaseous precursor comprises introducing the gaseous precursor as a single gas source.

In another embodiment of the fourth and fifth aspects the step of introducing the gaseous precursor comprises introducing the gaseous precursor intermixed with an inert carrier gas. In this embodiment the inert gas can be for example He argon Hor N.

In these aspects the gaseous precursor can be deposited by any suitable technique including but not limited to gas source molecular beam epitaxy chemical vapor deposition plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition laser assisted chemical vapor deposition and atomic layer deposition.

In a preferred embodiment of the fourth and fifth aspects the gaseous precursor is introduced at a temperature of between 300 C. and 450 C. more preferably between 350 C. and 450 C. Practical advantages associated with this low temperature rapid growth process include i short deposition times compatible with preprocessed Si wafers ii selective growth for application in high frequency devices and iii negligible mass segregation of dopants which is particularly critical for thin layers.

In various further embodiments of the fourth and fifth aspects the gaseous precursor is introduced at a partial pressure between 10Torr and 1000 Torn In one preferred embodiment the gaseous precursor is introduced at between 10Torr and 10Torr corresponding to UHV vertical furnace technology . In another preferred embodiment the gaseous precursor is introduced at between 10Torr and 100 Torr corresponding to LPCVD conditions.

In various other preferred embodiments the Si Ge material is formed on the substrate as a strain relaxed layer having a planar surface the composition of the Si Ge material is substantially uniform and or the entire Si and Ge framework of the gaseous precursor is incorporated into the Si Ge material or epitaxial Si Ge.

In a sixth aspect the present invention provides a compound comprising or consisting of SOCF SiH as well as methods for making the compound. As disclosed herein SOCF SiH is useful as an intermediate in the synthesis of the silicon germanium hydrides of the invention. In one embodiment methods for synthesizing SOCF SiH comprise combining R SiH and HSOCFunder conditions whereby the SOCF SiH is formed where R is an aryl substituent. Such aryl substituents include but are not limited to p tolyl and benzyl.

In a preferred embodiment methods for synthesizing SOCF SiH comprise combining p tolyl SiH and HSOCFunder conditions whereby the SOCF SiH is formed. Preferably the SOCF SiH is formed according to the equation tolyl SiH 2HSOCF SOCF SiH 2 toluene 

 a combining HSOCF p tolyl SiH and solvent in a reaction chamber at between 50 C. and 0 C. to form a mixture 

The synthesis of butane like GeH SiH Referred to above as GeH SiH SiH GeH 1 GeH SiH SiH referred to above as SiH GeH SiH 2 and GeH SiHGeH also referred to as GeH SiH GeH GeH 3 Si Ge hydrides with applications in low temperature synthesis of Ge rich SiGeoptoelectronic alloys is herein demonstrated. The compositional vibrational structural and thermochemical properties of these compounds were studied by FTIR multinuclear NMR mass spectrometry Rutherford backscattering and density functional theory DFT simulations. The analyses indicate that the linear GeH SiH 1 and GeH SiHGeH 3 compounds exist as a mixture of the classic normal and gauche conformational isomers which do not seem to interconvert at 22 C. The conformational proportions in the samples were determined using a new fitting procedure which combines calculated molecular spectra to reproduce those observed by varying the global intensity frequency scale and admixture coefficients of the individual conformers. The GeH SiH 1 species was then utilized to fabricate SiGesemiconductor alloys reflecting exactly the Si Ge content of the precursor. Device quality layers were grown via gas source MBE directly on Si 100 at unprecedented low temperatures 350 450 C. and display homogeneous compositional and strain profiles low threading dislocation densities and atomically planar surfaces. Low energy electron microscopy LEEM analysis has demonstrated that the precursor is highly reactive on Si 100 surfaces with Hdesorption kinetics comparable to those of GeH despite the presence of strong Si H bonds in the molecular structure.

The synthesis of the main product 1 2 digermyldisilane HGe SiH 1 was accomplished via reactions of KGeHwith the nonafluorobutane sulfonic and triflate substituted disilanes CFSO SiH 4 and SOCF SiH 5 as illustrated by Eq 1 and 2 respectively. The starting materials 4 and 5 were prepared via reactions of the corresponding sulfonic acids HSOCFand HSOCFwith 1 2 p tolyl SiH Eq 3 and 4 respectively . SOCF SiH 2KGeH HGe SiH 2KSOCF 1 SOCF SiH 2KGeH HGe SiH 2KSOCF 2 tolyl SiH 2HSOCF SOCF SiH 2 toluene 3 tolyl SiH 2HSOCF SOCF SiH 2 toluene 4 The route described by Eq 1 consistently produces pure single phase HGe SiH 1 as a colorless pyrophoric liquid. Here the replacement of SOCFby GeHoccurs exclusively at the 1 2 substitution sites of SOCF SiH 4 as expected. However the route described by Eq 2 yields a mixture of products including GeH SiH 1 the isobutane analog GeH SiH SiH 2 and the Ge rich derivative GeH SiHGeH 3 depending on reaction conditions. Specifically low temperature T 10 C. reactions of SOCF SiH 5 with KGeH Eq 2 afforded predominately 1 and impurity levels of 3 . These species are separated by distillation and the minor low volatility fraction vapor pressure of 1 Torr at 22 C. was characterized by a variety of spectroscopic methods as the Ge rich derivative 3 possessing a heteronuclear HSi GeHcore . In contrast to the low temperature pathways the reaction of SOCF SiH 5 with KGeHat T 22 C. yields predominately combinations of the positional isomers 1 and 2 in varying proportions a small amount of 3 is also produced but this is readily separated form the bulk via fractional distillation from the 1 and 2 mixture . In this case the replacement of SOCFby GeHinitially occurs at the 1 substitution site of SOCF SiH 5 as expected. The second replacement likely produces germyl disilane SiHSiHGeH and a stable germylene intermediate GeH rather than the 1 2 digermyldisilane HGe SiH 1 . Insertion of GeHinto SiHSiHGeHthen may yield GeH SiH SiH 3 as shown in Eq 6. A similar insertion mechanism discussed in detail in subsequent sections has been observed in the photochemical generation of gas phase i SiHfrom SiHinsertion into trisilane SiH SiH SiH Eq 7 SiH SiH GeH GeH SiH SiH GeH GeH GeH SiH SiH 6 SiH SiH SiH SiH SiH SiH SiH 7 

The synthesis of 5 is described by Eq 4 and has been previously demonstrated elsewhere. Its p tolyl SiH starting materials has been produced via coupling reactions of p tolyl SiHCl with powdered lithium.In the present work we adopt a more convenient analogous approach using readily available sodium fragments as the coupling agent. Compound 5 is obtained as a highly reactive liquid which is difficult to fully handle and purify. Consequently its reactions with KGeHare complex and produce mixtures of products as described above. In contrast the newly prepared compound 4 is readily crystallized as a robust molecular solid that is completely isolated from the reaction byproducts and other contaminants thereby leading to high purity HGe SiH in subsequent steps according to Eq 1 . The compositional vibrational and structural properties of the newly synthesized compounds 1 2 3 and 4 are presented below.

The HGe SiH 1 species is prepared as described by the reactions depicted in Eq 1 2 and was isolated and purified by fractional distillation vapor pressure of 8 10 Torr at 22 C. . The FTIR Si NMR proton coupled and mass spectra indicate a 1 2 digermyldisilane with a butane like structure as shown in . The IR spectrum shows the Si H and Ge H stretching modes at 2147 and 2073 cm respectively and a set of absorption bands between 910 and 442 cmcorresponding to the bending modes of the molecule. These assignments are consistent with those made previously for the HGe SiH x 1 4 family of silyl germanes.A more detailed interpretation of the full IR spectrum is obtained from quantum chemical calculations and the data show fixed combinations between the butane like normal and gauche conformers of 1 see section below for details . The H NMR spectra reveals a quartet at 3.29 ppm and a triplet at 3.11 ppm corresponding to the SiH and GeH protons respectively which is consistent with a HGe SiH SiH GeHmolecular structure. This structure is further confirmed with 2D H COSY and H Si HMQC NMR experiments. The 2D H COSY spectrum showed cross peaks that correlate to Si H and Ge H resonances at 3.29 and 3.11 ppm respectively indicating the H Si Ge H connectivity. A proton decoupled H Si HMQC spectrum showed that the H atoms at 3.29 ppm are directly attached to Si atoms at 105 ppm. The mass spectra revealed an isotopic envelope at 210 196 amu as the highest mass peak corresponding to the parent ion SiGeH . The associated fragmentation pattern is consistent with the proposed structure. The existence of 1 was further corroborated by Rutherford backscattering RBS analysis of monocrystalline films produced by single source MBE depositions of the compound at 350 C. Eq 8 . The Si Ge elemental content of the films was consistently 1 1 reflecting precisely the composition of the SiGecore of the molecule. HGe SiH gas 2SiGe film 5H gas 8 GeH SiH SiH 2 

The isobutane like structure of 2 was determined by Si and H NMR studies. The proton NMR resonances are present as a multiplet centered at 3.049 ppm due to SiH and two doublets centered at 3.213 and 3.404 ppm corresponding to the GeH and SiHprotons respectively. The integrated peak intensity ratios of the SiH GeH and SiHare 1 6 3 respectively as expected. The peak intensities the coupling patterns and the position of the peaks in the spectrum collectively point to the isobutane like structure in which an Si center is terahedrally bonded to two GeHgroups one SiHgroup and an single H atom. This structure is further confirmed by 2D H COSY and H Si HMQC NMR measurements. The 2D H COSY spectrum showed cross peaks that correlate to the central SiH and terminal GeHand SiHresonances at 3.049 3.213 and 3.404 ppm respectively indicating a HSi SiH GeH connectivity which is consistent with the proposed isobutane structure. A proton decoupled H Si HMQC spectrum showed that the H atoms at 3.049 and 3.404 ppm are directly bonded to Si atoms at 121 and 93 ppm respectively. The Si chemical shift 121 ppm in CD due to the central Si atom in this molecule is similar to those found for SiH GeH 113 ppm in CDCl and Si GeH 128 ppm in CDCl . A close correspondence is also found between the Si chemical shift 93 ppm due to the terminal Si atom and those of the terminal SiHgroups 92 ppm for HSiGeH.

Gas chromatography mass spectrometry experiments GCMS of samples containing 1 HGe SiH and GeH SiH SiH 2 indicated the presence of two major fractions that displayed slightly different retention times in the GC column which is consistent with a mixture of 1 and 2 possessing slightly different boiling points. Furthermore these fractions displayed essentially identical mass spectra. The highest mass peak is observed in the 210 196 amu range corresponding to the SiGeH parent ions of 1 and 2 . Samples of the mixture were further characterized using IR spectroscopy. The spectra are essentially a simple admixture of the individual 1 and 2 components. The spectrum of 2 was theoretically determined since the compound could not be completely separated in pure form from 1 via our distillation method due to the similarity in their boiling points. The contributions of the each compound in the experimental IR spectra were then determined using a fitting procedure involving both the observed and the calculated spectra.

Compound 3 is a byproduct of the reaction described by Eq 2. Its gas phase IR spectrum shows the Si H and Ge H stretching bands centered at 2145 and 2073 cm respectively. The intensity of the Ge H peak in the spectrum is significantly stronger than the Si H due to the greater number of Ge H bonds relative to Si H bonds. The H NMR spectra showed a set of two sextets at 3.30 and 3.03 ppm ensconcing two triplets at 3.23 3.13 ppm. The integrated peak intensity ratios of the sextet triplet triplet sextet sequence are 2 3 3 2. The integrated intensities the coupling patterns and the position of the peaks in the NMR spectrum collectively point to a HGe SiH GeH GeHmolecular structure in which a central SiHGeHcore is bonded with two terminal GeHmoieties. In particular the sextets at 3.30 and 3.03 ppm can be associated respectively with the SiHand GeHprotons of the central SiHGeH while the triplets at 3.23 3.13 ppm correspond to terminal GeHprotons. The SiHand GeHNMR frequencies in this case correlate well with those in the previously reported HGe SiHand GeHGeHSiHcompounds.The assignment of the sextet at 3.30 ppm to the SiHprotons was further corroborated by a H Si HMQC NMR spectrum which indicates a direct coupling to a single Si resonance found at 98.2 ppm. In addition a 2D H COSY NMR spectrum was used to unequivocally establish the specific ordering of the Ge Si Ge Ge backbone constituents. Cross peaks correlate an Si H and three Ge H resonances at 3.30 3.23 3.13 and 3.03 ppm. These correspond respectively to SiH GeH terminal connected to GeH Ge H terminal connected to SiH and GeH. The mass spectra showed an isotopic envelope at 256 238 amu as the highest mass peak corresponding to the parent ion SiGeH and a fragmentation pattern consistent with the molecular structure.

Compound 4 is isolated at 95 yield as a colorless pyrophoric solid with a melting point of 68 C. It is readily soluble in ethers CHCl CHCland slightly soluble in toluene. The H NMR spectrum showed a singlet centered at 5.08 ppm Si H due to SiHand Si satellite peaks. These exhibit a triplet of triplets with a 1 bond Si H coupling of 272 Hz and a H H 3 bond coupling of 3.6 Hz. This indicates the presence of a second SiHgroup consistent with the SiHSiH core. Furthermore a proton decoupled H Si HMQC showed that the proton resonance at 5.08 ppm is directly attached to a Si atom at 30.1 ppm. These values are consistent with those observed for the triflate analog SOCF SiH 5 .Compound 4 was further characterized by FTIR mass spectrometry and C H F elemental analysis and the data are fully consistent with the proposed structure see experimental section .

In order to corroborate the identification of the GeH SiH GeH SiH SiH and GeH SiHGeH described above we simulated the structural energetic and vibrational trends of these compounds. In prior studieswe demonstrated that B3LYP hybrid density functional theory DFT simulations provide an excellent account of the ground state structural thermochemical and vibrational properties of the HGe SiHfamily of molecular hydrides. In particular use of the 6 311G 2d 2p basis set yielded small typical bond length and frequency discrepancies on the order of 0.4 and 1.4 respectively . Accordingly our first attempt at reconciling the observed IR spectra with those calculated was based on the same procedure and on the assumption that the fundamental structures are n butane like. Although this approach provided a close match to most of the main spectral features observed several strong low frequency features remained unaccounted for in the calculated IR pattern. In view of the prior success of B3LYP approach we concluded that n butane like molecular structures alone could not account for the spectrum of the synthesized compounds. We therefore expanded our calculations to include the gauche conformational isomers in which a terminal GeHgroup is rotated out of the Ge Si Si Ge or Ge Si Ge Ge skeletal plane as well as the iso butane like positional isomer i Si SiGeGe . These isomers are completely analogous to those previously reported in tetrasilane and related molecules and in subsequent discussion we simply refer to them as n GeSiSiGe g GeSiSiGe n GeSiGeGe and g GeSiGeGe and i Si SiGeGe as shown in . Our results indicate that the observed spectra of both the primary products and the minor impurity compounds are completely accounted for by a linear admixture of the n g and i type conformations.

Initial basis set convergence tests showed that a full resolution of differences in the calculated properties of the conformational positional isomers requires an even more stringent treatment than that used in the prior studies on HGe SiHhydrides particularly with regards to calculated vibrational properties. Accordingly all of the calculations described in the present work were carried out at the B3LYP 6 311G 3df 2pd level as implemented in the Gaussian03 code.

The results of the structural optimizations obtained using tight convergence criteria are presented in . The figure lists the bond length bond angle and bond torsion data for n GeSiSiGe g GeSiSiGe n GeSiGeGe g GeSiGeGe and i Si SiGeGe . In all molecules the skeletal structure exhibits typical Si Si and Si Ge bonds with the gauche conformations exhibiting slightly 0.002 longer shorter Si Si Si Ge bonds than their linear counterparts. In the iso butane like isomer i Si SiGeGe the Si Si bond lengths 2.351 are found to be intermediate to those in the other isomers while the Si Ge bond is dilated to a value 2.400 . All the Si Si values 2.350 2.352 correspond closely 0.1 to that found in bulk silicon square root over 3 4 2.352 where 5.431 is the lattice constant of crystalline Si in the diamond structure. The Ge Ge values found in n GeSiGeGe and g GeSiGeGe 2.446 is also close to that of bulk germanium 2.449 . The heteronuclear skeletal Si Ge bond lengths exhibit a distribution in the range 2.396 2.400 and represent an average of the Si Si and Ge Ge values 2.399 .

The Si H and Ge H bond lengths occur exclusively as central SiHmoieties and terminal GeHgroups in the n and g GeSiSiGe isomers with values of 1.486 and 1.539 respectively. In the corresponding GeSiGeGe isomers the Si H bonds associated with the SiHmoiety has essentially the same value 1.485 while the GeHmoiety exhibits a slightly longer Ge H bond 1.542 1.548 than in a GeHterminal group as expected. Due to its unique structure the i Si SiGeGe isomer possesses both terminal SiHand GeHgroups and a single SiH moiety. Here the Ge H bond lengths associated with the terminal GeHgroups have the same value 1.539 as in GeHgroups of other isomers while the corresponding terminal group Si Hbond lengths are slightly contracted 1.483 . The longest Si H bond length is associated with the central SiH moiety and has a value 1.488 . Collectively these bond length trends are consistent with those found previously in the heaviest members of the HGe SiH N 3 4 family of molecules.

The data presented in also shows that the inter metallic skeletal bond angles as well as those involving hydrogen metal bonds are essentially unchanged between all isomers studied. The only exception is found in the H Ge Si bond distributions which possess several values in the linear n GeSiSiGe isomer and a unique value in all of the others. The Ge Si Si Ge bond torsion in the linear molecules is 180 indicating that the metal atoms are confined to a common plane while the gauche conformations exhibit torsion angles of 66 and 64 in Ge Si Si Ge and Ge Si Ge Ge respectively. It is also evident from the data that the inter metallic and metal hydrogen bond lengths in the i Si SiGeGe isomer are on average closer to ideal tetrahedral values than those predicted for the other conformational positional isomers.

In order to facilitate the interpretation of the observed FTIR spectra we calculated the vibrational frequencies and intensities of the conformational isomers n GeSiSiGe and g GeSiSiGe and positional isomer i Si SiGeGe of the primary product as well as those of the minor species n GeSiGeGe and g GeSiGeGe using the B3LYP DFT functional at the B3LYP 6 311G 3df 2pd level. No symmetry was imposed in the calculation of the frequency spectra and all molecules studied exhibited a positive definite spectrum of harmonic frequencies indicating that the ground state structures are dynamically stable.

The low frequency non skeletal vibrational structure also shown in is considerably more complex and involves in and out of plane symmetric and antisymmetric Si H Ge H wagging vibrations. The most striking difference between the spectra of n GeSiSiGe and g GeSiSiGe parts a and b of respectively is that four distinct features n n of the linear isomer are effectively split in its gauche counterpart. For example the strongest band in n GeSiSiGe n corresponding to highly symmetric Si H wagging vibrations parallel with the molecular backbone is split into three bands denoted by g gand gin the gauche isomer exhibiting very strong Si H wagging parallel to the Si Si bond. Among these ginvolves the least crowded protons in the molecule and accordingly exhibits the greatest intensity. The weak shoulder indicated by gin the g GeSiSiGe spectrum is the anti symmetric counterpart to mode g. Finally the distinct feature near 925 cmin the n GeSiSiGe n corresponds to Si H wagging vibrations perpendicular to the Si Si axis involving symmetric H Si H bending motion. In the gauche isomer this band is split into symmetric and anti symmetric counterparts denoted by gand g. Only a few bands appear to be common to both isomers. In particular features n g near 430 cm asymmetrical wagging of the terminal Ge H protons n g near 800 cm symmetrical terminal Ge H wagging parallel to the Si Si bond and n g near 876 cm terminal Ge H wagging perpendicular to the Si Ge bonds . The weak band designated gin the involves symmetrical terminal Ge H wagging and has a silent counterpart in the n GeSiSiGe molecule.

The low frequency spectrum of i Si SiGeGe shown in has a slightly simpler structure due the molecule s higher symmetry. The lowest frequency wagging modes found in the g GeSiSiGe g g are effectively split into asymmetrical pairs i i and i i respectively in i Si SiGeGe . The dominant features near 800 cm iand i correspond to in phase and anti phase symmetrical Ge H wags of the terminal GeHgroups while feature iis the asymmetrical analog to these vibrations. In the SiHterminal group the Si H wagging vibrations i occur at 951 cm. Finally features iand iare unique to the i Si SiGeGe molecule and involve perpendicular Si H wags of the SiH moiety.

For the n and g GeH SiHGeH isomers we corroborate the NMR characterization by directly comparing the observed IR spectrum with that calculated for a 1 3 mixture of n GeSiGeGe and g GeSiGeGe conformations a detailed explanation is given in the following section . The calculated IR spectra for both the n and g isomer convoluted with a Gaussian of width 20 cmto simulate experimental broadening are given in . Both the high and low frequency regions are shown no frequency scaling has been applied . Peaks in the simulated spectrum originating from n GeSiGeGe or g GeSiGeGe conformations are denoted by Nand G respectively.

The high frequency Si H stretching bands are similar to those found in the GeSiSiGe analogs exhibiting calculated splitting of 13 14 cmbetween the symmetric and anti symmetric bands and a systematic overall 4 5 cmshift to lower frequency in the gauche isomer. Here N G and N G correspond to asymmetric and symmetric Si H stretches respectively. However a simple comparison for corresponding Ge H stretching vibrations for these isomers is vitiated by the lower symmetry of GeSiGeGe isomers. For example the asymmetrical Ge H stretch N in n GeSiGeGe is split into contributions G Gand Gin the gauche isomer while the symmetric Ge H stretch Nin the n GeSiGeGe is split into bands Gand G.

In the low frequency range of the spectrum we find a strong correspondence between mode assignments of the n and g isomers above 700 cm. Specifically the asymmetrical H Si H wagging vibrations Nin n GeSiGeGe appears as Gin g GeSiGeGe with a frequency near 731 cm. As in our earlier discussion we designate such corresponding pairs between isomer conformations as N G . Intense Ge H wagging vibrations N G associated with terminal GeHgroups appear near 808 cm. Similarly H Ge H scissor modes at 866 cmare designated as N G while their H Si H counterparts N G appear at 936 cm the frequency of the corresponding mode in the GeSiSiGe isomers was 925 cm . The features denoted N G consist of asymmetrical scissor like vibrations associated with the terminal GeHgroups.

The most significant differences between the IR spectra of the n and g isomers are found below 700 cm. The most intense spectral feature in n GeSiGeGe N is associated with a highly symmetric wagging of the protons bound to the GeHmoiety parallel to the molecular backbone. In the gauche isomer this mode is split into three features denoted G Gand G corresponding to asymmetrical Ge H wagging of combinations of individual protons in the GeHmoiety. Finally the mode Nin the n isomer consisting of concerted symmetrical wagging of terminal GeHprotons at both ends of the molecule is split into two modes Gand Gin the gauche isomer in which symmetrical wagging occurs independently in the two GeHterminal groups.

To estimate the molar concentration of the comformational and positional isomers in the observed spectra we adopt an approach commonly employed in multi phase fitting of x ray spectra in which a normalized admixture of known pure phase candidate spectra is fitted to an unknown observed spectrum of the combined molecules. Using the same procedures as in our prior studies on Si Ge hydrides we have calculated the spectra of 10 digermyl disilyl positional conformational isomers to be described elsewhere . These calculated spectra serve as a proxy for the unknown pure isomer candidate spectra normally supplied by experiment. A comparison of our calculated spectra with that of the synthesized compounds suggests the presence of simple admixtures of conformational n GeSiSiGe g GeSiSiGe and positional i Si SiGeGe g GeSiSiGe isomers for the SiGeHfamily. To proceed with the analysis all of the required theoretical spectra n g and iso isomers see are first calculated on a fine frequency grid 1 cmspacing and then partitioned into low frequency 0 1600 cm and high frequency 1600 2600 cm regions. We denote the low frequency spectra of the n GeSiSiGe g GeSiSiGe pair by I I and those of i Si SiGeGe g GeSiSiGe by I I . The corresponding observed spectrum of the synthesized compound I w produced on a discrete frequency grid by the spectrometer is then used to construct an objective function Eq 9 . For example in the case of the n GeSiSiGe g GeSiSiGe admixture 

The corresponding results for the GeSiGeGe impurity compound are shown in . A completely analogous fitting procedure to that above yields in this case an admixture parameter 0.235 i.e. 23.5 n GeSiGeGe indicating that the gauche conformation g GeSiGeGe is dominant in the gas phase. As in the GeSiSiGe analysis we find that fitting parameters obtained from the low frequency spectrum 

We have observed that the proportions derived for the conformational isomers are essentially constant between different samples. To elucidate this observation we calculated the potential energy surface PES of the butane like GeSiSiGe as a function of the Ge Si Si Ge backbone torsion angle. The linear conformation corresponds a torsion angle of 180 while the gauche modification occurs at 66 see . For each fixed value of the torsion angle all remaining structural degrees of the freedom are optimized resulting in a relaxed PES. compares the torsional PES for butane tetrasilane and GeSiSiGe at the DFT B3LYP 6 311G 3df 2pd and ab initio CCSD LANL2DZ levels of theory. In all cases the value of the linear or trans configuration is chosen as the reference energy. The plots reveal that all three molecules exhibit very similar energy torsion profiles with a global minimum at 180 a n g barrier E at 120 a local minimum at the gauche configuration E near 66 and a maximum value corresponding to the eclipse saddle point E . Using the DFT B3LYP 6 311G 3df 2pd description we obtain E 0.942 E 0.362 and E 1.628 kcal mol for GeSiSiGe while the corresponding tetrasilane values are 0.895 0.360 and 1.591 kcal mol respectively. At this level of theory the conformational energy structure of GeSiSiGe and butane like tetrasilane is essentially identical. This is not unexpected in view of their very similar bond character. At the same level of description we find that the analogous PES for butane shares the same qualitative form as that of tetrasilane and GeSiSiGe but with significantly larger rotational barriers E 3.235 E 0.884 and E 5.713 kcal mol.

It should be noted that our B3LYP 6 311G 3df 2pd tetrasilane values for Eand Eare qualitatively different from those calculated by Albinsson et alat the MP2 6 31 level for the same molecule. In particular the latter authors predict a symmetric n g barrier and a near identity of gauche and linear conformation energy E 0.588 E 0.04 and E 1.236 kcal mol . Unfortunately because the basis set levels and model chemistries in our two approaches both differ the origin of this discrepancy is ambiguous. We therefore carried out a series of coupled cluster calculations at the CCSD LANL2DZ level for the sequence butane tetrasilane and GeSiSiGe. The results shown as solid lines in are remarkably consistent with the B3LYP based DFT calculations dashed lines in the figure and indicate that the linear butane like conformation is the ground state structure with a gauche value of E 0.2 0.4 kcal mol. Furthermore the magnitude of the barrier connecting the gauche and linear conformations in GeSiSiGe is reduced to 0.36 kcal mol 188 K in the CCSD LANL2DZ calculations. This small value of the torsional barriers in tetrasilane and GeSiSiGe is consistent with the facile low temperature conformational interconversions observed experimentally.

It should be noted that the 68 value obtained for the positional isomeric spectrum shown in is characteristic of one particular sample. Unlike the conformational isomers which exhibited a constant proportion between samples the proportions of the positional isomers sensitively depend on the specific reaction conditions. This suggests that once the i Si SiGeGe g GeSiSiGe mixture has been isolated no inter conversion between positional isomers occurs. Chain cleavage and spontaneous isomerization are observed in the closely related tetrasilane SiHsystem during photochemical matrix isolation experiments producing trisilane SiH and silylene SiH .The formation i SiHobserved as a mixture with n SiHis then believed to follow from SiHinsertion into the Si H bonds of trisilane. As discussed in detail by Jasinski et al. this insertion reaction is one of the characteristic mechanisms in gas phase polysilane chemistry possessing a slight negative activation energy and a very high collisional efficiency.We surmise that an analogous low energy germylene insertion reaction channel is present in our synthesis route see Eq. 2 involving the triflate substituted disilanes at T 22 C. leading to the condensation of i Si SiGeGe . One plausible mechanism could involve the replacement of SOCFby GeHat the 1 substitution site of SOCF SiH 5 followed by insertion of GeHin the Si H bonds of the central SiHsite in the SiH SiH GeHintermediate.

The deposition experiments were conducted on a clean Si 100 substrates in ultra high vacuum system equipped with a low energy electron microscope LEEM that allowed in situ real time observation of the growth process. The HGe SiH gaseous precursor reacted on the Si surface via complete Helimination at partial pressures in the range of 10 10Torr. Initially the reaction growth kinetics was investigated using LEEM and the activation energy E of the compound with respect to Hdesorption from the Si surface was measured. It is known that for conventional silanes and germanes the Eis much lower on a Ge containing surface including SiGe than on pristine Si. Thus an accurate determination of Ecan only be obtained from measuring the growth rate of the first monolayer which grows directly on pure Si and not that of subsequent layers which grow on Ge containing surfaces and have higher growth rates. In this regard LEEM is particularly unique because its dynamic imaging differentiates the Si 001 2 1 surface from the SiGeepilayer and thus provides unambiguous means for the correct determination of Eon Si by measuring the growth rate of the first SiGemonolayer vs. temperature.

For comparison the growth rates of GeHand HGeSiHwere also determined using the same method. For these and for HGe SiH the first monolayer took longer to complete on pristine Si than subsequent monolayers. is a graph showing plots of the temperature dependence of the first layer growth rates. The activation energies were determined using the relation R exp E kT . The data are consistent with the first order Hdesorption kinetics and yield Eof 1.95 1.66 and 1.42 eV for HGeSiH GeHand HGe SiH respectively. This indicates that the latter it is not only more reactive than HGeSiH but is also more reactive than pure GeHdespite the presence of strong Si H bonds in the molecular structure. Accordingly it represents a unique high reactivity species suitable for low temperature 300 400 C. rapid growth of thick layers 100 500 nm with stoichiometry SiGereflecting that of the corresponding precursor. Below we describe the deposition procedure and key results regarding morphology microstructure composition and strain for the films.

The synthesis of SiGefilms was investigated in the 350 C. 500 C. range via dehydrogenation of HGe SiH . The highest temperature that yields planar layers is 450 C. The growth rate is 4 nm min and decreases to 2 nm min at 350 C. No appreciable growth was observed below 300 C. 1 10Torr due to the reduced reactivity of the compound. Thick films with rough surfaces and defective microstructures were produced at 500 C. with growth rates as high as 15 nm min. The composition and heteroepitaxial character of the films were investigated by random and channeling Rutherford backscattering RBS which in all cases indicate a highly stoichiometric material aligned with the substrate. The ratio of the aligned versus the random peak heights which measures the degree of crystallinity decreases from 15 at the interface to 6 at the surface indicating a dramatic reduction in dislocation density across the thickness of the film. This is confirmed by high resolution XTEM which revealed commensurate SiGe Si interfaces and perfectly monocrystalline layer microstructures. A survey of TEM samples showed no defects penetrating through the layers within a field of view of 2.5 m in the micrographs indicating an upper limit in the threading dislocation density of 10 cm . Most of the defects due to the lattice mismatch are concentrated near the interface region. In fact a number of these appear to originate at the SiGe Si interface and show a propensity to propagate downward into the substrate . Occasional edge dislocations spaced by 150 nm are also observed in the vicinity of steps on the Si surface . These are parallel to the interface plane and may provide stress relief between the film and the substrate. The presence of edge dislocations is unusual since SiGe based materials typically display 111 threading dislocations and stacking faults. X ray diffraction XRD revealed highly aligned layers with mosaics spreads as low as 0.1 degrees and relatively strain free microstructures. Raman scattering experiments conducted with several Ar laser lines revealed a high degree of vertical uniformity in concentration and strain.The Raman analysis indicated that the composition agrees well with the RBS value and that the strain relaxation is 75 and 95 for films with thickness of 200 and 500 nm respectively which similar to those obtained by XRD.

Atomic force microscopy AFM studies show that films with thickness of 50 and 750 nm display RMS values of 0.5 and 1.5 nm respectively for 10 10 mareas indicating highly planar surfaces for samples grown at T450 C. the AFM images show a classic cross hatched surface pattern caused by misfit dislocations produced during strain relaxation. It has been shown that both defect induced interface and bulk alloy scattering considerably reduces the electron mobililties in these samples and degrades the device performance.Nevertheless conventional CVD at ultra low pressure is known to produce SiGematerials with significantly lower cross hatching patterns leading to higher quality electrical properties. In contrast to these methodologies which typically involve low order silanes and germanes SiH SiH GeH GeH the present route utilizes the highly reactive and more massive HGe SiH compound. The direct incorporation of the SiGemolecular unit into the film leads to low surface diffusion compared to the conventional low mass compounds. Furthermore the high reactivity permits low growth temperature and promotes high growth rates at pressures of 10Torr leading to device quality films devoid of cross hatched surface morphologies.

The thermal properties of the films were investigated between 450 C. and 750 C. a range well within device processing temperatures. The XRD lattice constant the RBS values and the AFM roughness were measured for the annealed samples and compared with the corresponding values of the as grown materials. Samples with a thickness as low as 200 nm did not show any increase in surface roughness even after annealing at 750 C. indicating that the surface planarity of our samples is thermally robust. The XRD and RBS aligned spectra were essentially identical before and after annealing. This result also confirms full relaxation in the as grown layers at T

We have demonstrated the synthesis of the butane like compounds with molecular formulas GeH SiH 1 GeH SiH SiH 2 and GeH SiHGeH 3 and their conformational isomers. Detailed characterization of the products was conducted via a range of spectroscopic and analytical methods including quantum chemical simulations. A new fitting procedure was developed based on the admixture of normal and gauche calculated spectra to obtain the proportions of the individual conformers in the product sample at 22 C. Controlled depositions of 1 have produced stoichiometric SiGe films possessing the desired properties for semiconductor applications including perfectly crystalline and epitaxial microstructures smooth morphologies and uniformly strain relaxed states. Unique practical advantages associated with this low temperature 350 450 C. rapid growth include i short deposition times compatible with preprocessed Si wafers ii selective growth for application in high frequency devices and iii negligible mass segregation of dopants which is particularly critical for thin layers. Finally we have found that these compounds are remarkably stable over extended periods of time with evidence of decomposition and thus represent viable molecular sources for potential industrial applications.

All manipulations were carried out under inert conditions using standard Schlenk and drybox techniques. Dry air free solvents were distilled from either anhydrous CaClor sodium benzophenone ketyl prior to use. All NMR spectra were collected either on a Varian INOVA 400 spectrometer operating at 400 MHz or a Gemini 300 spectrometer. Samples were dissolved in CDClor CDand all nuclei were referenced either directly or indirectly to the proton signal of TMS or the residual solvent peak as indicated. IR spectra were recorded using a 10 cm gas cell with KBr windows. Elemental analyses were performed by Desert Analytics Tucson Ariz. . Gas chromatography mass spectrometry GCMS data were obtained using a JEOL JMS GC Mate II spectrometer. Powdered lithium Aldrich lithium tetrahydroaluminate Aldrich trichloro p tolyl silane Gelest trifluoromethane sulfonic acid Alfa Aesar nonafluorobutane 1 sulfonic acid Aldrich and electronic grade germane gas Voltaix Inc. were used as received. The starting materials p tolylsilane chloro p tolyl silane 1 2 bis p tolyl disilane and 1 2 bis trifluoromethylsulfonyloxy disilane were prepared according to literature procedures and their purity checked by NMR spectroscopy. Potassium germyl was synthesized in monoglyme using sodium potassium 80 K alloy. The coupling reactions using powdered lithium were performed in a helium environment rather that in an Natmosphere to prevent formation of lithium nitride.

A solution of monochloro p tolyl silane 10.0 g 63.8 mmol in di n butyl ether 120 mL and toluene 40 mL is stirred with sodium pieces 1.68 g 146.2 mmol for 5 h at 125 C. The mixture is filtered and the filtrate is distilled to remove the solvents and other impurities. The remaining colorless liquid product 4.40 g 60 was examined by NMR to determine its identity and purity and was subsequently used without purification.

A sample of CFSOH 7.9 g 26.3 mmol was added to a 15 mL solution of 1 2 p tolyl disilane 3.18 g 13.1 mmol in toluene at 40 C. A colorless precipitate was immediately formed at low temperatures. The reaction flask was warmed to 23 C. and stirred for 1 2 h. The colorless solid was filtered and dried in vacuo. Repeated concentration and cooling of the toluene filtrate at 20 C. yielded additional product. Yield 7.9 g 95 . Mp 68 C. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 5.078 s J 272 Hz Si H J 3.6 Hz . Si NMR 79.5 MHz CDCl 30.1. Anal. Calcd for CFSOSiH C 14.59 H 0.61 F 51.95. Found C 14.27 H 0.87 F 51.74.

A 20 mL solution of CFSO SiH 4.67 g 9.5 mmol was added to a slurry of KGeH 2.00 g 20.9 mmol in diethyl ether 15 mL at 40 C. The reaction was then warmed to 10 C. and stirred under nitrogen for 12 h after which it was heated at 35 C. for an additional 1 h. The volatiles were fractionally distilled several times through U traps held at 20 50 and 196 C. The 50 C. trap retained pure HGe SiH 260 mg 26 Yield while the 196 C. trap contained solvent and traces GeHand SiH. Vapor pressure 7.0 Torr 23 C. . IR gas cm 2147 s 2073 vs 910 w 879 w 799 s 740 vw 682 s 651 m 442 vw . H NMR 400 MHz CD 7.15 ppm 3.106 t J 4.1 Hz 6H Ge H 83.290 q J 3.9 Hz 4H SiH . Si NMR 79.5 MHz CD 105.0 this value is close to that observed for HGe SiHat 102.45 GCMS m z 210 196 SiGeH 180 170 SiGeH 152 143 GeH 140 126 SiGeH 107 98 HSiGeH 77 72 GeH 62 58 SiH 32 28 SiH .

A sample of CFSO SiH 3.39 g 9.5 mmol was added to a slurry of 2.40 g 20.9 mmol of KGeHin diethyl ether 30 mL at 30 C. The mixture was then warmed to 23 C. and stirred under nitrogen for 5 h. The volatiles were fractionally distilled and the HGe SiH product in its pure form was collected at a 50 C. trap 0.250 g 13 yield .

The compound is obtained as a byproduct in the synthesis of HGe SiH and was isolated by repeated distillation through U traps under static vacuum maintained at 20 and 50 C. to collect SiHGeH GeH and HGe SiH respectively. Vapor pressure 1.0 Torr 22 C. . IR gas cm 2145 m 2073 vs 910 w 878 w 793 vs 723 w 679 w 615 s 443 vw . H NMR 400 MHz CD 7.15 ppm 3.30 sept J 3.9 Hz 2H Si H 3.23 t J 4.6 Hz 3H Ge H 3.13 t J 3.90 Hz 3H Ge H 3.03 sept J 4.0 Hz 2H Ge H . Si NMR 79.5 MHz CD 98.2. GCMS m z 256 240 SiGeH 230 212 SiGeH 184 169 SiGeH 154 141 GeH 136 128 SiGeH 108 98 SiGeH 77 70 GeH 32 28 SiH .

