---

title: Nano-hybrid structured regioregular polyhexylthiophene (RRPHTh) blend films for production of photoelectrochemical energy
abstract: The novel photoelectrochemical nano-hybrid film fabricated by blending regioregular polyhexylthiophene (RRPHTh) with titanium oxide (TiO), Zinc oxide (ZnO) and nanodiamond (ND) nanoparticles on ITO coated glass plate, n-type silicon, and gold coated glass surfaces. The photoelectrochemical study reveals photoinduced electron transfer in nano-hybrid RRPHTh with donor and ND as acceptor providing a molecular approach to high-efficiency photoelectrochemical conversion properties. The ND-RRPHTh has shown promising morphological and photoelectrochemical properties than RRPHTh as well as TiO-RRPHTh and ZnO-RRPHTh nano-hybrid films.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09416456&OS=09416456&RS=09416456
owner: University of South Florida
number: 09416456
owner_city: Tampa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120521
---
This nonprovisional application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 488 446 entitled Novel Nano Hybrid Structured Regioregular Polyhexylthiophene RRPHTh Blend Films for Photoelectrochemical Energy Application filed by the same inventors on May 20 2011 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant No. ECCS 1066643 awarded by National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to methods of using nano hybrid structured regioregular polyhexylthiophene for photoelectrochemical energy application.

In recent years the photoelectrochemical organic light emitting diodes optoelectronic and solar cell devices based on conjugated polymer p type and inorganic nanomaterials n type have been studied due to their high electron mobility chemical and physical stability of inorganic nanoparticles and by large ease in fabrication and the flexibility in fabrication of larger cells at low cost. G nes S. Neugebauer H. Sariciftci N. S. 2007 107 1324 1338 Kim J. S. Kim W. J. Cho N. Shukla S. Yoon H. Jang J. Prasad P. N. Kim T. D. Lee K. S. J. Nanosci. Nanotech. 2009 9 6957 6961 .

The promising photo conversion efficiencies in photovoltaic systems with PbSe CdS CdSe and nanocrystals in hybrid structures with conjugated polymer in multilayered systems have been studied at large Huynh W. Dittmer J. J. Alivisatos A. P. 2002 295 2425 2427 Cui D. Xu J. Zhu T. Paradee G. Ashok S. Gerhold M. 2006 88 183111 Biju V. Kanemoto R. Matsumoto Y. Ishii S. Nakanishi S. Itoh T. Baba Y. Ishikawa M. J. Phys. Chem. C. 2007 111 7924 7932 McCumiskey E. J. Chandrasekhar N. Taylor C. R. 2010 21 225703 Abken A. E. Halliday D. P. Durose K. 2009 105 064515 . Quantum materials e.g. polymer nanocrystal systems appear promising but the use of a toxic precursor e.g. Cd Pb etc. remains a limitation to their development as an alternative to inorganic devices on a large scale fabrication. In this context TiOand ZnO nanomaterials which are non toxic offer physical and chemical stability and are promising candidates for hybrid heterojunction photovoltaic cells Boucle J. Chyla S. Shaffer M. S. P. Durrant J. R. Bradley D. D. C. Nelson J. Adv. Funct. Mater. 2008 18 4 622 633 Lin Y. Y. Chu T. H. Li S. S. Chuang C. H. Chang C. H. Su W. F. Chang C. P. Chu M. W. Chen C. W. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2009 131 10 3644 3649 Mane R. S. Lee W. J. Pathan H. M. Han S. H. 2005 109 24254 24259 .

Recently reports have been devoted to TiOnanocrystal nc polymer blends mainly because of a strong incompatibility of the polar nanoparticles with common organic solvents. The use of higher hole mobility polymer such as poly 3 hexylthiophene blends with commercial nc TiObased photovoltaic device has shown external quantum efficiencies up to 15 in an overall AM1.5 solar power conversion system Breeze A. J. Schlesinger Z. Carter S. A. Tillmann H. Horhold H. H. Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells. 2004 83 263 271 Wu M. C. Liao H. C. Lo H. H. Chen S. Lin Y. Y. Yen W. C. Zeng T. W. Chen C. W. Chen Y. F. Sua W. F. Sol. Energy Mater. Sol. Cells. 2009 93 961 965 Shim H. S. Kim J. W. Kim W. B. J. 2009 9 4721 6 . More recently the blends of conjugated polymers and inorganic nanocrystals have offered high electron mobility with improved spectral coverage for energy applications Stavrinadis A. Xu S. Warner J. H. Hutchison J. L. Smith J. M. Watt A. R. Nanotechnology. 2009 20 445608 Zhao L. Wang J. Lin Z. 2010 5 33 44 . The effective conduction path for charge transport in conjugated polymer blends with metal oxide or quantum dot still remains a challenge Selmarten D. Jones M. Rumbles G. Yu P. Nedeljkovic J. Shaheen S. J. Phys. Chem. B. 2005 109 15927 15932 . The RRPHTh has a structure similar to hairy rod polymers which could be used for blending with inorganic particles and form semicrystalline films with crystalline domains embedded in an amorphous matrix Li G. Shrotriy V. Yao Y. Huang J. Yang Y. 2007 17 3126 3140 Iovu M. C. Zhang R. Cooper J. R. Smilgies D. M. Javier A. E. Sheina E. E. Kowalewski T. McCullough R. D. 2007 28 1816 1824 Yazawa K. Inoue Y. Shimizu T. Tansho M. Asakaw N. 2010 114 1241 1248 . The high degree of crystallinity and strong inter chain interactions in RRPHTh would lead to higher charge mobility since the carriers are no longer confined to a single chain Loewe R. S. McCullough R. D. 1999 40 852 853 Ramajothi J. Ochiai S. Kojima K. Mizutani T. 2008 47 8279 8283 Reyes Reyes M. Kim K. Carroll D. L. 2005 87 8 083506 .

Recently nanodiamond ND particles have gained attention due to facile surface functionalization biocompatibility quantum information processing magnetotometry novel imaging and IR fluorescence application and have been shown to enhance the optical and electrochemical properties of conducting polymers Gomez H. Ram M. K. Alvi F. Stefanakos E. Kumar A. 2010 114 18797 18804 . These and all other referenced publications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Furthermore where a definition or use of a term in a reference which is incorporated by reference herein is inconsistent or contrary to the definition of that term provided herein the definition of that term provided herein applies and the definition of that term in the reference does not apply.

Accordingly what is needed is a nano hybrid film having enhanced photoelectrochemical properties. However in view of the art considered as a whole at the time the present invention was made it was not obvious to those of ordinary skill how the art could be advanced.

While certain aspects of conventional technologies have been discussed to facilitate disclosure of the invention Applicants in no way disclaim these technical aspects and it is contemplated that the claimed invention may encompass one or more of the conventional technical aspects discussed herein.

The present invention may address one or more of the problems and deficiencies of the prior art discussed above. However it is contemplated that the invention may prove useful in addressing other problems and deficiencies in a number of technical areas. Therefore the claimed invention should not necessarily be construed as limited to addressing any of the particular problems or deficiencies discussed herein.

In this specification where a document act or item of knowledge is referred to or discussed this reference or discussion is not an admission that the document act or item of knowledge or any combination thereof was at the priority date publicly available known to the public part of common general knowledge or otherwise constitutes prior art under the applicable statutory provisions or is known to be relevant to an attempt to solve any problem with which this specification is concerned.

The long standing but heretofore unfulfilled need for an improved more effective and more efficient nano hybrid film is now met by a new useful and nonobvious invention.

The present invention provides a nano hybrid film of nanodiamond ND RRPHTh TiO RRPHTh and ZnO RRPHTh on indium tin oxide ITO coated glass plate n type Si and gold coated glass surface. It is also characterized using a combination of physical and electrochemical techniques.

The RRPHTh may also be blended with poly 3 octylthiophene 2 5 diyl P3OT and ND to exploit hybrid structures. Thus the electrochemical optical surface and photochemical properties of ND RRPHTh and ND P3OT hybrid can be investigated in different electrolytes. The photoelectrochemical studies presented unexpected photo conversion properties.

The present invention also provides a method of using of small quantities of nanodiamond to enhance photoconductivity RRPHTh polymers. Promising photoelectrochemical properties of blend ND RRPHTh nano hybrid film has been demonstrated. The photoelectrochemical properties of ND RRPHTh deposited on either n type silicon or ITO coated glass plate in TBATFB electrolyte is around 8 to 10 times higher in current density and energy conversion efficiencies as compared to simple RRPHTh TiO RRPHTh and ZnO RRPHTh nano hybrid films.

In an embodiment the current invention comprises a nano hybrid film including a regioregular polythiophene blending substantially uniformly with nanoparticles. The nanoparticles include nanodiamonds and the blending is achieved in a working electrode counter electrode and reference electrode arranged in an electrolyte. The addition of nanodiamond to the polythiophene unexpectedly and synergistically enhances the photoconductivity of the nano hybrid film.

The working electrode can be an ITO coated glass plate. In a further embodiment the counter electrode can be an n type silicon coated glass surface. In yet a further embodiment the reference electrode can be a gold coated glass surface.

The nano hybrid film can be arranged in a photoelectrochemical cell or photovoltaic cell for use in photoelectrochemical applications.

The nanoparticles may have a blended particle size of about 20 nm to about 100 nm. This is larger than each nanoparticle when blended and thus the nanoparticles likely aggregate prior to blending with the polythiophene.

The film may further include poly 3 octylthiophene 2 5 diyl polymers blended into the regioregular polythiophene to form the film.

In a separate embodiment the current invention comprises a nano hybrid film including any one or all of the foregoing limitations.

In a separate embodiment the current invention includes a method of fabricating a photoelectrochemical cell with enhanced photoconductivity. The method includes the steps of blending nanoparticles into a regioregular polyhexylthiophene polymer on a substrate containing a working electrode a counter electrode and a reference electrode arranged within an electrolyte. The nanoparticles include nanodiamonds.

Zinc oxide and or titanium oxide may also be blended into the polyhexylthiophene polymer with nanoparticles.

The working electrode may be an indium tin oxide coated glass plate. The reference electrode may be an n type silicon coated glass surface. The reference electrode may be a gold coated glass surface.

A poly 3 octylthiophene 2 5 diyl polymer may also be blended into the polyhexylthiophene polymer with nanoparticles.

These and other important objects advantages and features of the invention will become clear as this disclosure proceeds.

The invention accordingly comprises the features of construction combination of elements and arrangement of parts that will be exemplified in the disclosure set forth hereinafter and the scope of the invention will be indicated in the claims.

In the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and within which are shown by way of illustration specific embodiments by which the invention may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the scope of the invention.

In the broadest aspect the present invention provides a nano hybrid film of ND RRPHTH TiO RRPHTh and ZnO RRPHTh on ITO coated glass plate n type Si and gold coated glass surface. The film is fabricated and characterized using a combination of physical and electrochemical techniques.

The present invention provides the method of blending RRPHTh with TiO ZnO and nanodiamond ND nanoparticles using chloroform as a solvent. The morphology structure optical electrochemical and photoelectrochemical properties of nano hybrid blend RRPHTh film on different substrates are also provided. The ND RRPHTh has shown unexpected morphological and photoelectrochemical properties. The RRPHTh chains with ND show crystallinity due to diffusion of nanoparticles molecules to nucleation sites to form hexagonal aggregation.

The electrochemical and photochemical characteristics of RRPHTh hybrid film deposited on ITO coated glass plate gold and n type silicon substrates and gold coated glass surfaces in different electrolytes e.g. acetonitrile ACN lithium perchlorate LiClO ACN TBAFFBF camphor sulfonic acid CSA deionized water hydrochloric acid HCl and sulfuric acid HSO are provided. The nano hybrid diamond film accepts the electrons from electron hole pairs which are generated due to excitons then move into the another electrode such as a platinum electrode. Subsequently the electron is moving from electrolyte to the other electrode. The ND RRPHTh nano hybrid film on n type Si displays maximum photo conversion efficiency. This simpler system the conjugated polymer blending with nanomaterials presents photo conversion properties that can be exploited for a variety of photo energy applications.

RRPHTh TiO 2 10 nm ZnO av. 30 40 nm LiClO Camphor sulfonic acid hydrochloric acid 37 Acetonitrile chloroform were all ACS grade and purchased from Sigma Aldrich USA . The diamond nanoparticles 99 dia 5 10 nm were purchased from International Technology Center. All these chemicals and materials were employed as purchased without any further purification unless otherwise specified.

The RRPHTh and nanoparticles e.g. TiO ZnO and ND were mixed at 1 1 ratios in chloroform solvent. The RRPHTh was first dissolved and later equal ratio by weight of TiO ZnO and ND separately dispersed in the solution and stirred for 48 hrs. Care must be taken as longer stirred solution shows better blending properties. The resulting solution containing RRPHTh with nanoparticles were deposited on indium tin oxide ITO coated glass plates n type silicon and gold coated glass substrates using solution cast and spin coating techniques in a thickness range varying from 500 nm 1 m in average measured by stylus profiler.

Optical spectroscopy is well known technique for characterizing conducting polymer to understand the absorption bands of inter and or intra gap states. FTIR Raman and UV vis optical studies on RRPHTh hybrid with TiO ZnO NDs polymers is a preferred tool to derive information regarding the vibrational bands Raman Shift and absorption bands of the film.

The vibrational bands of the nano blend film deposited on 100 n type silicon single crystal were measured by Fourier transform infrared FTIR spectrophotometer Perkin Elmer spectrum 1 . The sample chamber of the spectrophotometer was continuously purged with nitrogen for 10 15 minutes before the data collection as well as during the measurements for the elimination of the water vapor absorption. For each sample eight 8 interferograms were recorded averaged and Fourier transformed to produce a spectrum with a nominal resolution of 4 cm. FTIR spectra of nano blend films were obtained after proper subtraction from substrate silicon base line. UV Vis spectra of RRPHTh blend film deposited of glass were made using a UV Vis Spectrometer Jasco V 530. The Raman spectra deposited on n type Si substrates were obtained by a visible Raman spectrometer Renishaw 1000 with an Ar laser at a wavelength of 514.5 nm a laser spot of 1 m using a laser power of 25 mW.

The morphology and size of the nano hybrid RRPHTh films were investigated by field emission scanning electron microscopy Hitachi S4800 at 5 kV and the molecular level morphology was explored using high resolution transmission electron microscopy JEOL 3011 at 300 kV. The electrochemical measurements were carried out using a Potentiostat Galvanostat instrument Radiometer Analytical VoltaLab 40 PGZ301 . A standard three electrode configuration was employed where a glass ITO nano hybrid RRPHTh film acted as a working electrode a platinum wire as the counter electrode and Ag AgCl as the reference electrode. The reference for the absorbance was a bare ITO coated glass plate in the corresponding electrolyte. A standard electrochemical cell with a three electrode system was employed for the photoelectrochemical photocurrent response for the RRPHTh blend films Ding H. Ram M. K. Nicolini C. 2001 118 81 88 Valter B. Ram M. K. Nicolini C. 2002 18 1535 1541 Ram M. K. Sarkar N. Bertoncello P. Sarkar A. Narizzano R. Nicolini C. 2001 122 369 378 Ding H. Ram M. K. Nicolini C. 2001 1 207 213 Ding H. Ram M. K. Zheng L. Nicolini C. 2001 36 5423 5428 . The electrochemical studies were performed in electrolytes 0.1 M HCl 0.1 M HSO 0.1 M LiClOin propylene carbonate 0.1 M CSA water and 0.1 TBATFB in ACN. The electrochemical cell contained films coated on the discussed substrates acting as working electrodes platinum as a counter electrode and Ag AgCl as a reference electrode for water based electrolytes whereas silver wire was used as a reference electrode for non aqueous electrolytes. The photoelectrochemical properties of the nano hybrid films ND RRPHTh ZnO RRPHTh and TiO RRPHTh in different electrolytes were studied using a 60 watt lamp illuminated from a distance of approximately 5 cm away from the working electrode. The switching on off action from the visible light was controlled manually.

The UV visible absorption spectra of RRPHTH curve 1 ND RRPHTh curve 2 ZnO RRPHTh curve 3 and TiO RRPHTh curve 4 are shown in . The RRPHTh curve 1 shows the absorption bands at 525 and 610 nm the ND RRPHTh curve 2 shows the bands at 531 563 and 611 nm the ZnO RRPHTh curve 3 has the characteristic bands 525 and 610 nm and the TiO RRPHTh curve 4 blend observes the bands at 365 495 and 600 nm Boland P. Sunkavalli S. S. Chennuri S. Foe K. Abdel Fattah T. Namkoong G. 2010 518 1728 1731 Ram M. K. Yavuz O. Aldissi 2005 151 77 84 . The optical absorption of the blends corresponds transition at the range 400 650 nm Rikukawa M. Nakagawa M. Ishida K. Abe H. Sanui K. Ogata N. 1996 284 285 636 639 . There is shift of the RRPHTh band while blending with TiO ZnO or ND as compared to pristine RRPHTh suggesting that the polymer chain packing is perturbed by the incorporation of the nanoparticles.

It can be seen in curves 2 4 that the peak position corresponding to the symmetric C C stretching deformation is shifted to a higher wave number cm for the RRPHTh polymer when the polymer is blended with ND whereas no shift is observed when the polymer was blended with TiOand ZnO nanoparticles. A shift in the wave number generally indicates an increase in the crystallinity of RRPHTh polymers and the extension of the effective conjugation length along the polymer backbone for ND RRPHTh film.

The hybrid morphology and size of the RRPHTh films blended with nanomaterials were investigated by field emission scanning electron microscopy FESEM JEOL 6340F operated at 5 kV . Molecular level morphology was investigated using high resolution transmission electron microscopy HRTEM JEOL 3011 operated at 300 kV .

The film of hybrid morphology of the RRPHTh alone and RRPHTh with nanomaterials fabricated on SEM was used to measure the SEM studies. shows the SEM pictures of RRPHTh ND RRPHTh ZnO RRPHTh and TiO RRPHTh respectively. It is well known that both the processing methods and the type of solvent used play a critical role both on the degree of organization of conjugated polymer. The SEM analysis does not provide any information on the topography i.e. height and phase images of the samples. The RRPHTh picture shows the simple aggregation of the RRPHTh polymer when chloroform was evaporated. The larger scale roughness may reflect the formation of a gel phase during solvent removal that subsequently collapses to an extent governed by the final polymer content of the film. The hexagonal arrangement of RRPHTh with ND can been observed in Motaung D. E. Malgas G. F. Arendse C. J. Malwela T. 2010 124 208 216 . This observation suggests that the relative roughness of the nano hybrid films is attributed to the influence of a strong ND interaction with RRPHTh ZnO RRPHTh blend has also shown some degrees of arrangement whereas as more agglomeration would be expected for blends of TiOin RRPHTh. Moreover no sequential arrangement with TiOnanoparticles intermixing is achieved independently as was evidenced on the scanning electron microscopy SEM . Nevertheless the SEM investigations suggest that a reasonable polymer nanoparticles intermixing is achieved independently of the blend roughness fir all type of nanoparticles.

The nanostructural characterization of the nanocrystalline films has therefore been employed here to elucidate film morphology using transmission electron microscopy TEM . TEM micrographs of the RRPHTh films are shown in and TEM micrographs of the ND RRPHTh nano hybrid films are shown in . show TEM images of the simple aggregation and crystallization of the RRPHTH polymer after chloroform was evaporated from which the measured average crystallite size was found to be between 7 and 12 nm in the lattice. are bright field transmission electron micrographs of a film with a uniform distribution of ND nanoparticles in the RRPHTh conducting polymer at two different scales. Although lattice images reveal individual crystallites at atomic resolution further TEM analysis of the ND RRPHTh evidenced that the ND nanoparticles are encapsulated within the RRPHTh polymeric structures. The ND RRPHTh particle size of 20 100 nm is larger than the ND nanoparticles precursor indicating that hybrid occurs by aggregation of few nanoparticles of ND. shows a high resolution TEM of ND RRPHTH nanocomposite where aggregated individual ND particles have been characterized.

The electrochemical measurements were carried out using a Potentiostat Galvanostatic Voltalab . A standard three electrode configuration was employed where a glass ITO nano hybrid films acted as a working electrode a platinum wire as the counter electrode and Ag AgCl as the reference electrode. The reference for the absorbance was a naked ITO coated glass plate in the corresponding electrolyte.

To understand that the electrochemical properties are diffusion controlled systems the CVs of RRPHTh ND RRPHTh ZnO RRPHTh and TiO RRPHTh at different scan rate 5 10 20 50 100 mV sec in TBATBF tetra butyl ammonium tetrafluoroborate electrolyte are shown in respectively. The CV is reversible regardless of the presence of different types of nanoparticles blending with RRPHTh. Since polythiophenes typically undergo chemical and electrochemical oxidation to accept one electron oxidation per about 5 units of the thiophene ring the linear correlation between maximum redox peak current ipa and square root of potential v not shown in figure suggests that diffusion of the RRPHTh molecule to the surface area of the platinum electrode is an important factor to determine ipa similar to cases of electrochemical reactions of low molecular compounds. A linear relationship was observed between the anodic peak current and the scan rate not shown in figures . The characteristic of an electro active polymer film is a diffusion controlled system.

Further photoelectrochemical studies were performed in an electrolyte containing salt such as TBATFB. shows the photoelectrochemical current obtained from RRPHTH ND RRPHTh ZnO RRPHTh and TiO RRPHTH nano hybrid film respectively deposited on ITO coated glass plate as working electrode Pt as a counter electrode and Ag wire as reference electrode in TBATFB electrolyte. The electrochemical photo response was switched on off by a 60 W lamp. The excitons in RRPHTh undergo charge separation and the electrons and holes are driven in the opposite direction for their collection at the electrode surface. The nano hybrid ND RRPHTh film accepts the electron as soon as the electron hole pairs are generated due to excitons leaving the hole and moving to another electrode. Subsequently the electron moves from the electrolyte to the other electrode.

The ND RRPHTh nano hybrid film on n type Si shows maximum photo conversion efficiency. The photoelectrochemical properties of ND RRPHTh deposited on either n type silicon or ITO coated glass plate in TBATFB containing electrolyte is around 8 to 10 times higher in current density and energy conversion efficiencies as compared to RRPHTh ZnO RRPHTH and TiO RRPHTh nano hybrid films. The ND RRPHTh hybrid provides percolating channels for the holes to transport to the electrode. The ND C60 layer acts as both electron acceptor and electron transporting layer to increase the mobility for carrier transport. The devices were fabricated on ITO coated glass substrate. The ND RRPHTh film shows current around 70 A while compared to RRPHTh ZnO RRPHTh and TiO RRPHTh with approximate values of 5 A 9 A and 7 A respectively when a 60 Watt bulb was switched on and off for the films in a electrolyte containing TBATFB Pt as counter electrode in a photoelectrochemical cell and Ag wire as reference electrode.

The effect of substrate on nano hybrid RRPHTh is shown in . The film was deposited on n type Si and Ag electrodes. The CVs was studied from 2V to 1.5V showing the reversible systems. In curve 1 represents the CV without light exposition and curve 2 shows the CV when the 60 Watt bulb was illuminated and the cyclic voltammogram was observed. The increase of cyclic voltammogram current at all measured potential was unexpectedly reversible.

Nano hybrid films of ND RRPHTh ZnO RRPHTh and TiO RRPHTh on ITO coated glass plate n type Si and Ag coated glass surface were fabricated and characterized using a combination of physical and electrochemical techniques. Embodiments of the current invention show the unexpected photo electrochemical properties of blended ND RRPHTh nano hybrid films. It has been demonstrated that the incorporation of small quantities of nanodiamond synergistically enhances photoconductivity in RRPHTh polymers. The photoelectrochemical properties of ND RRPHTh deposited on either n type Si or ITO coated glass plate in TBATFB electrolyte is around 8 to 10 times higher in current density and energy conversion efficiencies as compared to conventional RRPHTh ZnO RRPHTh and TiO RRPHTh nano hybrid films.

Polymer hybrid films were created with nanodiamond for photoelectrochemical cell applications. Different ratios of nanodiamond were fabricated with RRPHTh and P3OT polymers to understand the organic photovoltaic cell. Substituted composite polythiophenes were synthesized. In order to fully exploit the advantages of polythiophenes in blend structures the blend RRPHTh with ND ZnO and TiOnanoparticles in organic solvent were made. The characterization i.e. characterization techniques such as Scanning electron microscopy Atomic force microscopy FTIR RAMAN UV Vis electrochemical were performed in nano hybrid structures of polythiophenes with nanodiamond blends. The morphology structure optical electrochemical and photoelectrochemical properties of nano hybrid RRPHTh films deposited on different substrates were investigated. The electrochemical and photochemical properties of ND RRPHTh hybrid film deposited on ITO coated glass plate n type silicon substrates and gold coated glass surfaces were investigated in different electrolytes. Enhanced photoelectrochemical properties of polythiophenes nanodiamond deposited on n type silicon were achieved in terms of current density and energy conversion efficiencies. The solid photovoltaic cell was also fabricated on ND polythiophene based structured materials. This conjugated polymer blending with nanomaterials presented unexpected photo conversion properties which can be exploited for various photo energy applications.

Nano hybrid film of conducting polymer with nanodiamond showed the regular hexagonal arrangement of RRPHTh with ND. The hybrid particle size of 20 nm 100 nm was larger than the ND nanoparticles precursor indicating that hybridization occurs by the aggregation of few nanoparticles of ND in blend structure. The UV Vis study showed that there was a shift of the RRPHTh band while blending with ND ZnO or TiOwhen compared to pristine RRPHTh suggesting that the polymer chain packing was perturbed by the incorporation of the nanoparticles. The shift in Raman band in blend showed that the extension of the effective conjugation length along the polymer backbone for nano hybrid film based on nanodiamond polythiophenes hybrid structures. The photoelectrochemical properties of ND RRPHTh deposited on either n type silicon or ITO coated glass plate in TBATFB electrolyte was around 8 to 10 times higher in current density and energy conversion efficiencies as compared to RRPHTh ZnO RRPHTh and TiO RRPHTh nano hybrid films. The ND RRPHTh nano hybrid films provided percolating channels for holes transport to the electrode. The ND RRPHTh film provided current around 70 A whereas RRPHTh ZnO RRPHTh and TiO RRPHTh provided current around 5 A 9 A and 7 A respectively when a 60 Watt bulb was switched on and off for the films in an electrolyte containing TBATFB Ag wire was used as reference electrode and Pt was used as counter electrode in a photoelectrochemical cell. Similar results were also observed for P3OT ND film. The synthesis parameters of substituted polythiophenes are understood and can be variable.

The nanoparticles ND ZnO and TiO and RRPHTh were mixed at 1 1 ratio in chloroform solvent. Initially 1 g of RRPHTh was dissolved in 100 ml chloroform for 5 6 hours and then equal weight of each nanoparticle was separately dissolved in the RRPHTh chloroform solution. Similarly 1 g of P3OT was dissolved in 100 ml chloroform 6 hours and equal weight of nanodiamond is dissolved in the P3OT chloroform solution. The mixture was stirred for 48 hours at room temperature. Care must be taken since the longest stirred solutions have shown the optimum physical properties of blend films. The resulting solution containing RRPHTh with nanoparticles were deposited on indium tin oxide ITO coated glass plates n type silicon and gold coated glass substrates using solution cast and spin coating techniques in a thickness range varying from 500 nm 1 m in average measured by stylus profiler.

Various techniques have been used for characterization of hybrid structures Ding H. Ram M. K. Nicolini C. 2001 118 81 88 Valter B. Ram M. K. Nicolini C. 2002 18 1535 1541 Ram M. K. Sarkar N. Bertoncello P. Sarkar A. Narizzano R. Nicolini C. 2001 122 369 378 Ding H. Ram M. K. Nicolini C. 2001 1 207 213 Ding H. Ram M. K. Zheng L. Nicolini C. 2001 36 5423 5428 . The electrochemical studies were performed in electrolytes 0.1 M HCl 0.1 M HSO 0.1 M LiClOin propylene carbonate 0.1 M CSA water and 0.1 TBATFB in ACN. The electrochemical cell contained films coated on the substrates acting as working electrodes Pt as a counter electrode and Ag AgCl as a reference electrode for water based electrolytes whereas silver wire was used as a reference electrode for non aqueous electrolytes. The photoelectrochemical properties of the ND RRPHTh ZnO RRPHTh and TiO RRPHTh nano hybrid films in different electrolytes were studied using a 60 W lamp illuminated from a distance of about 5 cm away from the working electrode. The switching on off action from the visible light was controlled manually.

The UV visible absorption spectra of RRPHTh ND RRPHTh ZnO RRPHTh and TiO RRPHTh are shown in . The RRPHTh curve 1 reveals the absorption bands at 525 and 610 nm ND RRPHTh curve 2 shows the bands at 531 563 and 611 nm Boland P. Sunkavalli S. S. Chennuri S. Foe K. Abdel Fattah T. Namkoong G. 2010 518 1728 1731 Ram M. K. Yavuz O. Aldissi 2005 151 77 84 . The ZnO RRPHTh shown in Figure curve 3 has the characteristic bands at 525 and 610 nm. The TiO RRPHTh blend curve 4 show the bands at 365 495 and 600 nm Boland P. Sunkavalli S. S. Chennuri S. Foe K. Abdel Fattah T. Namkoong G. 2010 518 1728 1731 Ram M. K. Yavuz O. Aldissi 2005 151 77 84 . The optical absorption of the blends corresponds to transition at the range 400 650 nm Rikukawa M. Nakagawa M. Ishida K. Abe H. Sanui K. Ogata N. 1996 284 285 636 639 . There is a shift of the RRPHTh band while blending with ND ZnO or TiOsuggesting that the polymer chain packing is perturbed by the incorporation of the nanoparticles when compared to pristine RRPHTh.

The structures of blended with nanodiamond of P3OT is shown in SEM pictures and TEM pictures . Processing methods and the type of solvent play a critical role on the degree of organization of the conjugated polymer with nanodiamond. shows the TEM images of the simple aggregation and crystallization of the P3OT conducting polymer after evaporation of the solvent.

The schematic of the photoelectrochemical cell and the energy band diagram including the possible redox process in the photoelectrochemical cell of ND RRPHTh are shown in including the schematic of the photoelectrochemical set up and the excitation of light with generation of photocurrent. In addition shows the energy band diagram of TiOand ZnO each with RRPHTh ITO in the generation of photocurrent with respect to ND Qiao Q. Lianyoung S. Beck J. McLeskey J. T. 2005 98 094906 Lyon J. E. Cascio A. J. Beerbom M. M. Schlaf R. Zhu Z. Jenekhe S. A. 2006 88 222109 Huang Z. Zhang J. Yang X. Cao W. 2010 20 161 167 Huang Z. Zhang J. Yang X. Cao W. 2010 21 1137 1143 .

To understand that the electrochemical properties are diffusion controlled systems the CVs of RRPHTh ND RRPHTh ZnO RRPHTh and TiO RRPHTh at different scan rate 5 10 20 50 100 mV sec in tetra butyl ammonium tetrafluoroborate TBATFB electrolyte are shown in respectively. The CV is reversible regardless of the presence of different types of nanoparticles blended with the RRPHTh.

In conclusion nano hybrid films of ND RRPHTh ZnO RRPHTh TiO RRPHTh and ND P3OT on indium tin oxide ITO coated glass plate n type Si and gold coated glass surface were fabricated and characterized using a combination of physical and electrochemical techniques. It has been demonstrated that the incorporation of small quantities of nanodiamond synergistically enhances photoconductivity in polythiophene polymers. The photo electrochemical properties of ND RRPHTh and ND P3OT are higher than parent polymer ZnO RRPHTh and TiO RRPHTh nano hybrid films. Substituted composite polythiophenes can be fabricated and blended with ND for photoelectrochemical applications.

All referenced publications are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties to the same extent as if they were individually incorporated by reference. Furthermore where a definition or use of a term in a reference which is incorporated by reference herein is inconsistent or contrary to the definition of that term provided herein the definition of that term provided herein applies and the definition of that term in the reference does not apply.

It will be seen that the advantages set forth above and those made apparent from the foregoing description are efficiently attained. Since certain changes may be made in the above construction without departing from the scope of the invention it is intended that all matters contained in the foregoing description or shown in the accompanying drawings shall be interpreted as illustrative and not in a limiting sense.

It is also to be understood that the following claims are intended to cover all of the generic and specific features of the invention herein described and all statements of the scope of the invention which as a matter of language might be said to fall there between.

