---

title: Intelligent infrastructure management user device
abstract: An infrastructure management device comprises a processor configured to obtain port status and networking device status for each of one or more physicals networking devices in a system. The device also comprises a display unit coupled to the processor and configured to display one or more virtual networking devices, and a user input element configured to provide user input to the processor. The port status indicates that a cable is inserted into the first port and the processor obtains cable data identifying one or more characteristics of the cable inserted into the first port. The processor is configured to compare the one or more characteristics of the cable inserted into the first port with one or more characteristics defined in the work order. The processor is configured to provide a notification to a user indicating whether the one or more characteristics of the inserted cable comply with the work order.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09210049&OS=09210049&RS=09210049
owner: ADC Telecommunications, Inc.
number: 09210049
owner_city: Berwyn
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121121
---
This application is related to and claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 562 444 filed on Nov. 22 2011 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Businesses and organizations worldwide are becoming more dependent upon networks that operate over a broadly distributed physical infrastructure layer. Such networks can be comprised of a relatively large number of cables and connections. For example some such networks have up to hundreds of millions of cables and connections. The reliability or fallibility of these networks is dependent upon many factors including comprehensive and accurate status and documentation and the ability of network personnel to isolate troubleshoot and repair failures. As the number of cables and connections increases the ability of network personnel to accurately install and manage correct connections becomes increasing difficult.

In one embodiment an infrastructure management device is provided. The infrastructure management device comprises a processor configured to obtain port status and networking device status for each of one or more physicals networking devices in a system. The device also comprises a display unit coupled to the processor and configured to display one or more virtual networking devices each virtual networking device representing one of the one or more physical networking devices based on the port status and networking device status and a user input element configured to provide user input to the processor. The processor is configured to periodically update the port status of a first port and a second port associated with a work order. The port status indicates that a cable is inserted into the first port and the processor obtains cable data identifying one or more characteristics of the cable inserted into the first port. The processor is configured to compare the one or more characteristics of the cable inserted into the first port with one or more characteristics defined in the work order. The processor is configured to provide a notification to a user indicating whether the one or more characteristics of the inserted cable comply with the one or more characteristics defined in the work order.

In accordance with common practice the various described features are not drawn to scale but are drawn to emphasize specific features relevant to the exemplary embodiments.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific illustrative embodiments. However it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that logical mechanical and electrical changes may be made. Furthermore the method presented in the drawing figures and the specification is not to be construed as limiting the order in which the individual steps may be performed. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense.

In addition the infrastructure management device can be connected to the network via a wired connection or a wireless connection using techniques known to one of skill in the art. Similarly the connectivity manager can be coupled to the network via a wired connection or a wireless connection using techniques known to one of skill in the art.

Each of the networking devices includes a plurality of ports . Each port is configured to receive a connector end of a cable . Cables can be implemented using optical fiber copper wire or any other suitable medium for use in cables. Each connector end of the cables includes an embedded processor or microchip Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM which provides information regarding the respective cable such as but not limited to data regarding the cable length cable color cable type or other cable characteristics etc. For example cables can be implemented using the Connection Point Identification Technology CPID in the Quareo system produced by TE Connectivity. Additionally each of networking devices includes an embedded processor. The processor cards have a network port such as an Ethernet port that connects the networking device to other network elements such as other panels hubs switches or routers etc.

The connectivity manager connects to each of the networking devices to discover the type of device and the device configuration e.g. how many ports and type of ports and to obtain state information for each of the ports in the respective networking devices . In particular the connectivity manager includes a processor which is configured to execute middleware instructions stored on memory . The middleware instructions when executed enable the connectivity manager to communicate with and obtain the state information from the networking devices . For example the connectivity manager obtains connectivity data regarding which ports are coupled together and which cables couple each pair of ports . In addition when executed the middleware instructions cause the processor to store the connectivity data in a database . Exemplary software suites for implementing middleware instructions include but are not limited to TE Connectivity s Infrastructure Configuration Manager ICM software suite or TE Connectivity s Quareo PathManager software suite.

The infrastructure management device couples to the connectivity manager over the network to obtain connectivity data. For example the infrastructure management device can connect to the connectivity manager via a web services interface such as but not limited to an eXtensible Markup Language XML Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP based messaging interface described using Web Service Description Language WSDL files Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP or REpresentational State Transfer REST . The infrastructure management device can be implemented as a desktop computer laptop computer slate or tablet computer wireless telephone including so called smart phones or other handheld mobile device.

The infrastructure management device uses the connectivity data to display virtual networking devices on the display unit that correspond to physical networking devices. In particular the infrastructure management device periodically queries the connectivity manager such as via background processes tasks to continually update the display of virtual networking devices. In this way the virtual networking devices on the display reflect changes to the corresponding physical networking devices in approximately real time. For example if a cable is inserted into a port on the physical networking device the corresponding virtual networking device is updated to display a cable connected to the corresponding port. This enables the user to visually inspect networking devices and see if the ports are occupied or available using the virtual networking device display on the infrastructure management device .

The infrastructure management device also uses the connectivity data to provide notification to a user on whether or not an inserted cable matches the intended cable for the respective port . In particular the infrastructure management device enables a user to create a work order and monitor if the work order has been completed properly as described in more detail below. To aid in the creation and monitoring of work orders the infrastructure management device uses the connectivity data to generate a virtual representation of one or more networking devices on a display unit . The networking devices which are displayed can be selected manually by a user or automatically by the infrastructure management device .

For example in some embodiments the display unit presents the user with a choice of manual or automatic selection of networking devices. The user enters a choice of either manual or automatic selection with the user input device . The display unit can be implemented as any suitable display element capable of rendering a visual display such as but not limited to a cathode ray tube CRT display an active matrix liquid crystal display LCD or a passive matrix LCD. The user input element can be implemented with an element that is separate from the display unit such as but not limited to a keyboard electronic mouse joystick etc. Alternatively the user input element can be implemented together with the display unit via a touch screen for display and input of user data.

If the user chooses automatic selection of networking devices the infrastructure management device selects the first N discovered networking devices for display where N is the total number of networking devices to be displayed. The number of networking devices can be selected by the user in some embodiments. In other embodiments the total number of networking devices to be displayed is predetermined and or hard coded. For example the total number of networking devices to be displayed can vary based on the screen size of the display unit .

If the user chooses manual selection of networking devices the infrastructure management device displays a list of discovered networking devices on the display unit . The discovered networking devices are networking devices which the infrastructure management device determines are managed by the connectivity manager based on connectivity data received from the connectivity manager . The user is then able to select which networking devices to display from the list of discovered networking devices as well as to select the order in which to display the networking devices on the display unit . Hence prior to displaying the virtual networking devices a user is able to visually select the order of display. In addition after being displayed the displayed networking devices can be moved rearranged on the display unit via the user input element .

Examples of virtual networking device displays are shown in . In particular presents an exemplary display of patch panels for use with copper wiring and presents an exemplary display of fiber blades for use with optical fiber. The networking devices and represent the physical networking devices used in a system such as a data center. Hence the connectivity data retrieved from the connectivity manager includes but is not limited to data regarding the type of networking device number of ports light emitting diode LED states and cable information for each port which is connected to a cable.

As shown in each networking device is depicted to approximately match the actual appearance of the respective networking device. Each virtual networking device is uniquely identified by the device name and identifier ID printed on the virtual networking device as shown in . In addition each port into which a cable has been inserted displays a pattern representative of the respective cable. Although patterns are used in this example it is to be understood that in other embodiments colors can be used to depict each cable. For example the color displayed on each port can be set to approximately match the color of the cable that is inserted into the respective port. When a cable is removed the respective port on the display unit is updated so that the color pattern is removed and reflects an empty port. When a cable is inserted the respective port on the display unit is updated to display a color pattern associated with the inserted cable. If a cable is inserted that has not been configured to provide data regarding the cable the display unit depicts a color pattern reserved for such unmanaged cables. For example in the exemplary display in ports and of panel includes a V which represents an unmanaged cable for which cable data is unavailable.

In addition when cables are removed inserted the infrastructure management device is configured in some embodiments to display on the display unit a text notification such as a pop up window which includes the information regarding the cable that has been removed or added as well as the port number and networking device ID associated with the inserted removed cable. One exemplary notification of cable insertion is depicted in . It is to be understood that the notification shown in is provided by way of example only and that other formats and or information displayed can be implemented in other embodiments.

A notification such as that shown in can also be displayed when the user selects a port using the user input element . For example the notification can be displayed when a user places a mouse pointer over the port and or clicks on the port. The notification pop up screen can be closed by clicking the close button at the top right of or by selecting to hide the cable information such as from a drop down menu. If a port is empty e.g. no cable the notification screen does not appear when the port is selected. If the port has an unmanaged cable a notification screen appears indicating that the cable is unmanaged. The unmanaged notification screen can be configured to display a different color such as red to indicate that the cable is unmanaged as well.

Once both ends of a cable have been inserted into a respective port the infrastructure management device is configured in some embodiments to display end to end information in real time such as in the exemplary pop up window shown in . When a cable is removed the end to end pop up window is closed automatically if an end to end connection was present. In addition the cable information pop up window corresponding to the removed cable is also closed automatically if open. The infrastructure management device can be configured to enable or disable the automatic display of pop up windows. The pop up window notifications can also be displayed and closed on demand based on user input.

In some embodiments when a port is selected such as through a click or hovering a pointing device over the port the infrastructure management device is configured to indicate to the user in which port the other end of the selected cable is connected. For example as shown in a mouse pointer is placed over one of the ports in networking device . This user action triggers the display of arrows . The arrows indicate the ports which are coupled together via a cable. It is to be understood that in place of or in addition to arrows other symbols and or a text notification such as the exemplary notification in can be displayed to indicate which ports are coupled together. When the user deselects the port such as by moving the mouse pointer such that it is no longer hovering over the port the arrows disappear. If the user hovers the mouse pointer over a port for which the other end of the cable is not inserted in any port the arrows do not appear. Similarly if the mouse pointer is hovering over a port and one end of the connection is removed the arrows disappear.

As discussed above the infrastructure management device also enables a user to enter and monitor work orders. A work order specifies specifics of the cable to be used as well as into which ports the ends of the cable are to be inserted. For example when a user creates a work order a screen similar to the example shown in is presented on display unit . It is to be understood that the screen shown in is presented by way of example and not by way of limitation. As shown in a user is presented with options for selecting the networking device and port number for each end of the connection. In addition the user is able to select settings for the cable to be used. In this example the user is presented with pre defined options fields for the cable media type cable shielding cable polarity cable length and cable color. However it is to be understood that in other embodiments different options and or a different number of options is available for the user. In addition in this example a user selects from a predetermined set of values for each options. However in other embodiments the user is able to enter a value directly rather than select from a predefined list. The fields thus define characteristics of a cable to be inserted in the respective ports of the work order.

In some embodiments each field must be completed in order to save the work order. In other embodiments one or more fields are optional. In such embodiments if an optional field is left blank the infrastructure management device accepts any value for that field when determining if the work order has been fulfilled. In addition it is to be understood that although the options for each field are presented as a drop down menu in this example other formats such as radio button or free form text can be used in other embodiments.

Additionally in the embodiment shown in an option is presented to queue the work order. When work orders are queued the infrastructure management device processes the work orders in sequential order. That is after the first work order is fulfilled the infrastructure management device processes the next work order etc. If the work orders are not queued the infrastructure management device processes the work orders in parallel. That is the infrastructure management device processes each of the saved work orders that are not queued at the same time.

When a work order is processed by the infrastructure management device the processor instantiates a task associated with the work order. A new task also referred to as a thread is instantiated for each work order when the work order is processed. Thus if three work orders are processed in parallel for example three tasks are instantiated respectively. For each respective work order the task queries the connectivity manager for events relevant to the work order such as cable insertion cable removal networking device enable or networking device disable. In addition the task filters the events for those specific to the networking devices and ports specified in the work order. When a query returns a cable insertion event relevant to the work order the task obtains the connectivity data for the cable associated with the event e.g. cable ID cable color cable length etc. .

The processor then compares the connectivity data with the characteristics of the intended cable defined by the work order. When both ends of a cable have been inserted into the ports of the work order and the characteristics of the cable match the characteristics of the work order the processor determines that the work order has been fulfilled. In some embodiments a text notification is optionally provided to the user via the display unit which indicates that the work order has been fulfilled. In addition in some embodiments the processor can provide control signals to the actual networking devices which cause an LED associated with the respective ports to illuminate a color which indicates a correct coupling. For example the LED can be set to illuminate a green color to indicate a correct coupling. In addition in some embodiments the virtual networking devices on the display can be configured with elements representative of the physical LEDs . In such embodiments the virtual LEDs are changed to display the same color and or flashing cadence periodicity as the physical LED . In some embodiments the infrastructure management device is also configured to permit a user to manually set change the physical LEDs and or the virtual LEDs via the user input element . For example through mouse clicks on the virtual LEDs the virtual LEDs can cycle through options and the infrastructure management device sends control signals to the corresponding physical networking device such that the corresponding physical LED also changes in accordance with the virtual LED .

If the characteristics do not match the processor causes the display unit to display a notification that the inserted cable does not comply with the work order. One such exemplary notice is depicted in . In addition in some embodiments the physical LEDs and virtual LEDs can be configured to illuminate a color indicative of an incorrect coupling. For example the LEDs can be configured to illuminate a red color.

In addition when a cable has been correctly inserted into one port of a work order but the other end of the cable is inserted into the wrong port the infrastructure management device is able to detect the misplacement of the other end of the cable through the task which monitors all ports for cable insertion removal events as discussed above. Such a misplacement can be detected by comparison of the cable ID. When such a misplacement is detected a notification can be provided which indicates both the incorrect port into which the cable end is inserted as well as the port into which the cable end should be inserted. The virtual and physical LED can also be set to guide the user in locating the misplaced cable end and inserting it into the correct port. Once the cable is removed from the incorrect port the notification indicating an error is automatically removed in some embodiments.

Additional details regarding monitoring a work flow are described in more detail below. Through the use of work flows the infrastructure management device is able to alert a user in real time if an inserted cable does not comply with a predetermined work order. In some embodiments as shown in the user is also presented with an option to override the work order when the inserted cable does not match the characteristics specified in the work order. Thus the user can accept the inserted cable. When the work order is overridden the processor is configured to set the LEDs to the color indicative of a correct coupling in embodiments implementing physical and or virtual LEDs.

Additionally the infrastructure management device can be configured in some embodiments to create and monitor secure links. In particular a user can create a secure link once a link between two points has been established. For example is a block diagram depicting one exemplary link between switch and a host device . Between switch and host device are a plurality of other networking devices . In particular in this example there are four patch panels. The secure link can be configured to start and end at any point between the host device and the switch . For example the secure link can be configured to include all connections between host device and or all connections between host device and one of the patch panels . Each networking device host device and switch is coupled to another device via a cable . Each cable can be implemented using copper fiber or other conductive medium. Each cable does not need to be the same.

The infrastructure management device can be configured to discover the complete end to end connection for the link based on the received connectivity data. The end to end connection along with the intermediate connection can be displayed to a user on the display unit . After a user selects the start and end points for the secure link the processor instantiates a task which periodically queries the connectivity manager for events related to a cable removal from one of the ports associated with the secure link. In some embodiments the user manually selects the start and end points for the secure link. In other embodiments the user can select a single port along the link path and the processor automatically computes the entire span of the link. The periodicity of the queries is set high enough that the detection of a cable removal is performed approximately in real time.

If the cable is removed from one of the ports associated with the secure link the processor provides an indication of the removal to a user. For example the light of the LED can be changed a text notification can be presented on the display unit etc. Additionally in some embodiments when the secure link is created the user can enter one or more email addresses and or one or more phone numbers. When the cable removal is detected the processor causes an email to be sent to the one or more email addresses and or a phone call to be placed to the one or more phone numbers. In this way any removal of the cable from a secure link triggers an alert for the user. In order to restore the secure link in some embodiments a cable having the same unique ID as the cable removed must be inserted. In other embodiments a cable having the same characteristics but a different unique ID can be inserted to restore the secure link. In some embodiments a notification can be displayed and or sent via email or phone which indicates that the link has gone down and a separate notification can be displayed and or sent via email or phone which identifies the port. A separate notification is then sent for each port that is disconnected. In addition in some embodiments when a port is reconnected with the same or acceptable cable another notification is sent for each port indicating it is no longer down. When all ports have been acceptably reconnected another notification indicating that the secure link is back up is then provided.

It is to be understood that the processor includes or functions with software programs firmware or other computer readable instructions for carrying out various methods process tasks calculations and control functions used in the processing of work orders.

These instructions labeled as infrastructure management instructions are typically stored on any appropriate computer readable medium such as memory used for storage of computer readable instructions or data structures. The computer readable medium can be implemented as any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or processor or any programmable logic device. Suitable processor readable media may include storage or memory media such as magnetic or optical media. For example storage or memory media may include conventional hard disks Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROM volatile or non volatile media such as Random Access Memory RAM including but not limited to Synchronous Dynamic Random Access Memory SDRAM Double Data Rate DDR RAM RAMBUS Dynamic RAM RDRAM Static RAM SRAM etc. Read Only Memory ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable ROM EEPROM and flash memory etc. Suitable processor readable media may also include transmission media such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link.

At if the both the first port and second port are empty the port status is monitored for a cable insertion. For example in some embodiments a task is created which periodically queries a connectivity manager which communicates with the networking devices to determine when a cable has been inserted into a port. In addition the physical LEDs and or virtual LEDs associated with the first port and the second port can be set to a color and flash periodicity to guide the user where to insert the cables at the physical networking devices. When a cable insertion is detected at the first port the cable data such as the cable ID cable length etc. are passed to the infrastructure management device at block . If no cable data is available e.g. a standard unmanaged cable is inserted this fact is indicated to the work order processor. The infrastructure management device compares the received cable data to the characteristics defined in the work order at block .

If one or more of the characteristics do not match a notification is provided to the user at block . For example a text notification can be provided on the display unit. In some implementations the text notification includes both the cable data for the inserted cable as well as the characteristics specified by the work order. In addition in some embodiments the physical and or virtual LEDs can be set to provide a visual indication of the mismatch such as but not limited to a color and flash periodicity indicating a mismatch. For example in one embodiment a fast flashing amber light indicates a mismatch. Optionally at block an option is presented to the user on the display unit to override the detected mismatch. If the option to override is not provided then the work order cannot be completed until removal of the cable in the first port is detected and a cable matching the work order is inserted.

If the mismatch is overridden the work order is updated with the characteristics of the inserted cable at block . Additionally if the mismatch is overridden the color and flash periodicity is changed to indicate that the cable complies with the work order. If the mismatch is not overridden it is determined if the cable has been removed from the first port at block . If the cable has been removed the process returns to block where it is determined that both ports are empty. If the cable is not removed from the first port at block the process may continue to block where it is determined if a cable is inserted into the second port.

If each of the characteristics of the cable inserted in the first port matches the characteristics defined in the work order at block a notification that the cable complies with the work order is provided at block . For example a text notification can be provided on the display unit and or the physical and or virtual LEDs can be set to a color and flash periodicity indicative of a match. For example in one embodiment a solid green light indicates a match. In some embodiments only the LEDs associated with the first port into which the cable has been asserted are set for either a match or a mismatch.

At block when a cable insertion in the second port is detected the cable data such as the cable ID cable length etc. of the cable inserted into the second port are passed to the infrastructure management device at block . The infrastructure management device compares the received cable data to the characteristics defined in the work order at block . At block it is determined if the first cable complied with the work order characteristics. If the first cable complied with the work order then the cable ID of the cable inserted into the second port is compared to the cable ID of the cable inserted into the first port at block . If the cable IDs match then it is determined that it is the same cable and therefore the cable inserted into the second port complies with the work order. A notification is then provided at block that the work order has been completed. For example a text notification can be provided on the display unit and or the physical and or virtual LEDs can be set to a color and flash periodicity indicative of a completed work order. In particular the text notification indicates that the work order has been completed. Similarly the LEDs associated with both ports are set to solid green for example to indicate that the work order has been completed

If the cable IDs do not match at block it is determined when the cable inserted into the second port has been removed at block . Once the cable has been removed from the second port the method continues at block . Although not shown it is to be understood that the first port is continually monitored to determine if the cable has been removed. If it is removed the method would return to block to begin again.

If it is determined that the cable inserted in the first port did not match the work order characteristics it is determined if the cable IDs of the cable inserted into the first port and the second port match at block . If the cable IDs match an optional decision to override the work order is again provided to the user in some embodiments at block . If the work order is overridden the work order is updated and notification that work order has been completed is provided at block .

If the cable IDs do not match at block it is determined if the characteristics of the cable inserted into the second port match the characteristics defined in the work order at block . If the characteristics of the cable inserted into the second port do not match the work order notice is provided at block as described above and the method returns to block until it is determined that the cables inserted into the first and second ports are removed.

If the cable inserted into the second port matches the work order at block method proceeds to block where it is determined when the cable inserted in the first port has been removed and another cable has been inserted. When another cable has been inserted into the first port it is determined at block if the cable ID of the cable inserted into the first port matches the cable ID of the cable inserted into the second port. If the cable IDs match it is determined that the same cable which complies with the work order has been inserted into the first port and the notification is provided at block . If the cable IDs do not match at block method returns to block . Although not shown it is to be understood that the second port is continually monitored to determine if the cable inserted in the second port has been removed. If it is removed the method would return to block to begin again.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that any arrangement which is calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. For example although the infrastructure management device and connectivity manager are depicted as separate devices in the embodiment of it is to be understood that that the functions of the respective devices can be implemented in a single device in other embodiments. Therefore it is manifestly intended that this invention be limited only by the claims and the equivalents thereof.

