---

title: Systems, methods, and software for processing, presenting, and recommending citations
abstract: The present invention provides systems, methods, and software for automatically processing data included in a document and identifying and recommending citations matching the processed data. The system allows a user to select and submit text segment(s) for analysis and to select from a set of recommended citations a citation(s) that matches the text segment as well as profile data for inclusion in the document. One or more citation libraries or authority databases are queried to find citations for recommendation which best match the text segment selected and submitted by the author. The system automatically processes data submitted by an author to generate a set of recommended citations for consideration and for inclusion within a document while the document is presented by a document rendering application. A selected citation is then formatted and inserted in the document.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09218344&OS=09218344&RS=09218344
owner: Thomson Reuters Global Resources
number: 09218344
owner_city: 
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20120629
---
The field of the invention relates generally to document processing and more particularly to systems methods and software for dynamically processing data particularly text segments and identifying and recommending citation data particularly literary citations for presentation to a user and for selectively including citation data within a document rendering application such as a word processor. The invention further relates generally to information science and infometrics or informetrics and more particularly to the fields of bibliometrics and scientometrics.

With the advents of the printing press typeset typewriting machines and computer implemented word processing and storage the amount of information generated by mankind has risen dramatically and with an ever quickening pace. As a result there is a continuing and growing need to accurately collect and store identify track classify and catalogue for retrieval and distribution this growing sea of information.

In the area of scholarly and scientific research and writing a sophisticated process and convention for documenting research supporting materials and organizing fields of study has emerged called bibliographic citation. Such scientific writings include among other things books articles published in journals magazines or other periodicals manuscripts and papers presented submitted and published by society industry and professional organizations such as in proceedings and transactions publications. To facilitate the widespread distribution of information published in scholarly writings to more efficiently and effectively move bodies of study forward scholars and scientists use bibliographic citation to recognize the prior work of others or even themselves on which advancements set forth in their writings are based. Citations or cited references as included in any particular work or body of work is used herein to refer broadly to cited references bibliographic or other reference data that collectively form in text citations footnotes endnotes and bibliographies and are used to identify sources of information relied on or considered by the author and to give the reader a way to confirm accuracy of the content and direction for further study. A bibliography may refer to either of a complete or selective list or compilation of writings specific to an author publisher or given subject or it may refer to a list or compilation of writings relied on or considered by an author in preparing a particular work such as a paper article book or other informational object.

A citation briefly describes and identifies a cited writing as a source of information or reference to an authority. Citations and bibliographies follow particular formatting conventions to enhance consistency in interpreting the information. Each citation typically includes the following information full title author name s publication data including publisher identity volume edition and other data and date and location of publication. Given the formatting requirements and numerous fields associated with each citation and given that there are tens and in some cases hundreds of citations in a given paper the amount of work required of authors in accurately identifying and citing such a substantial number of citations in a given paper or project presents a substantial problem and burden in the publishing and research processes. Even when an author or collaborator of a paper or project has cited certain papers in prior documents there exists the problem of efficiently and accurately recalling such papers for citing in future papers. What is needed is a system that allows an author the ability to work in a word processor environment while providing effective access to citation information without leaving the word processor application.

In addition many fields in a citation are inherently ambiguous making it very difficult for an author to accurately represent citation in a paper or work in process. For example recalling the exact title of a paper to be cited or the author of such a paper make the process inherently problematic. Systems presently available to researchers and authors do not provide an effective means to identify and generate citations based on an author s rough or approximate citation information or even topical information in the text of a working document.

Also author names are most usually represented in a citation in an abbreviated form such as an initial rather than full first or middle names e.g. J. Smith or suffer naturally from commonality with other authors such as having either a common first or last name or both e.g. John Smith. This results in a latent ambiguity as to the actual identity of the author or the paper for which a citation is sought during the authoring process. There have been many attempts to disambiguate author and other citation information. A system and method for disambiguating information is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 953 724 issued May 31 2011 entitled Method and System for Disambiguating Information Objects which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in the entirety.

In support of the pursuits of science and research databases database management tools citation management and analysis tools research authoring tools and other powerful tools and resources have been used and developed for the beneficial use of scholars researchers and scientists. These tools and resources may be available to users in an online environment over the Internet or some other computer network and may be in the form of a client server architecture central and or local database application service provider ASP or other environment for effectively communicating and accessing electronic databases and software tools. Examples of such tools and resources are Thomson Reuters Scientific s Web of Science WoS Web of Knowledge WoK and ResearchSoft suite of publishing solutions including EndNote EndNoteWeb Reference Manager and Manuscript Central .

A longstanding problem in the authoring and publication process has been accurately entering citation information in papers during creation and the time consuming and tedious process of manually verifying the accuracy of the citation prior to publication. Small but critical errors such as incomplete information and incorrect information e.g. misspellings and typographical errors cause the author and publisher to lose credibility and cause the reader to waste effort searching for the referenced material incorrectly cited in the document. What is needed is a system that enables authors to identify select and insert accurate citation information directly into a document while in the word processor application.

One particular aspect of the authoring process that is problematic is when an author desires to present in a paper a technical or other position that is supported by prior research but does not recall the prior paper that supports the statement. Techniques for textual analysis including those based on natural language processing IDF inverse document frequency TF IDF term frequency inverse document frequency are known and have been used to help discern meaning out of the text presented and to associate such text with relationships concepts and documents based on for example a scored relevance. Such techniques may include extraction and sorting such as parsing of data from sentence or word structures performed on electronic documents to extract information from papers and citations for further processing.

 Writings manuscripts and papers as used herein shall refer to both hard documents and soft electronic documents and shall be used interchangeably and given the broadest collective meaning. Such works of authorship are now widely created edited maintained archived catalogued and researched in whole or in part electronically. The Internet and other networks and intranets facilitate electronic distribution of and access to such information. The advent of databases database management systems and search languages and in particular relational databases e.g. DB2 and others developed by IBM Oracle Sybase Microsoft and others has provided powerful research and development tools and environments in which to further advance all areas of science and the study of science. There are companies and institutions that have created electronic databases and associated services such as WoS and WoK that are specifically designed to help organize and harness the vast array of knowledge.

Reference validation tools are available within the context of manuscript creation submission approval proofing and production processes. Many citation or reference databases which may be referred to herein as authority databases have become available via web service connections. However these tools are not presently well integrated with authoring applications and require substantial manual intervention and confirmation. Thousands of papers and manuscripts are submitted to reviewers and publishers daily by authors and many of the submissions include malformed references. To catch and correct these errors the current path to publication usually includes a manual reference validation step consisting of checks for style and content accuracy. The validation task may be performed by a variety of roles most commonly by a copy editor or a production editor but also possibly by a typesetter. With papers and manuscripts commonly containing dozens or hundreds of cited references the validation process is tedious and time consuming and adds significant costs to the publication process having been estimated to account for up to 60 of a publisher s correction and formatting effort. What is needed is a system that effectively identifies and recommends citation data for inclusion by authors in papers which citations are accurate and uniformly conform to a desired style.

Existing systems are known that provide e.g. validation of XML tags and schema in a document citation and that provide enhanced data with document citation or document citation records. Such systems may provide cholarly meta data and linking e.g. separate topical fields abstract fields etc and the creation of a Digital Object Identifier DOI or unique digital identifier for a specific scholarly work for example a URL. DOI may be used to identify content objects in a digital environment. Entities operating over digital networks are assigned DOI names and have associated with them current information including address information. Name information does not change but other information e.g. address may change over time. A DOI system provides a framework for managing the following identification content metadata links and media.

Improved methods systems and software for automatically processing literary citations are needed to provided enhance user author experience and to more efficiently and effectively facilitate accuracy of inserted citations as well as identify and recommend for selection a set of recommended citations for inclusion in a document based on a limited set of textual and or citation data such as provided by an author within a document.

The present invention provides systems methods and software for automatically processing data e.g. text segment included in a document and identifying and recommending citations matching the processed data. The system allows a user e.g. author to select and submit text segment s for analysis and to select from a set of recommended citations a citation s that matches the text segment as well as profile data for inclusion in the document e.g. as a footnote or an endnote. More particularly the invention performs this process while the author is creating or editing the document in a document rendering application e.g. word processor. One or more citation libraries or other authority databases are queried to find citations for possible recommendation which best match the text segment selected and submitted by the author. More particularly the invention uses a combination of textual analysis and a profile such as a personal profile to identify rank and present the set of recommended citations. A selected citation is then inserted in the document in a properly formatted form or style.

The present invention contemplates a system for automatically processing data submitted by an author to generate a set of recommended citations for consideration of the author and for inclusion within a document while the document is presented by a document rendering application. The system of the present invention may work in combination with an authorship or citation editor or other software application or client residing on the local machine or through an online service which may include a personal library or bibliography of citations associated with the author or team of authors and which may retrieve a citation that matches a selected text segment e.g. an incomplete or unformatted citation from a citation library.

The present invention provides enhanced workflow solutions for authors e.g. researchers scientists and scholarly authors and indirectly for publishers e.g. journals and professional and technical societies by effectively identifying recommending and inserting citations from authority database s in papers and other submissions for publication or for review. The invention accelerates the time to publish or market papers journals meeting abstracts and conference proceedings and delivers significant productivity gains in the process. The invention enables users to access research and other productivity resources and solutions seamlessly while working in a word processor application. The invention provides value added information with software tools and applications that help users to identify and insert appropriate citations more efficiently. Although the invention may be described herein in the context of scientific research the invention is also applicable in other applications and environments.

In one embodiment the present invention provides an integrated or integrate able system of research and authoring productivity software for use in conjunction with databases of interest e.g. WoS WoK CrossRef and PubMed. The system of the invention may be integrated or used in conjunction with other authoring tools and solutions. By way of example Thomson Reuters Scientific applications EndNote EndNote Web Reference Manager Abstract Central Proceedings Central and Manuscript Central are commercially available systems that provide solutions used to create write publish submit and manage bibliographies papers publications and other scholarly pursuits. Many of the functions included in this system of solutions may be automated.

The invention may be used with one or more or a combination of solutions. For example Manuscript Central provides a web based database driven peer review and online submission solution for scholarly publishers. Manuscript Central automates manuscript submission to journals and allows for easy administrative editing and reviewing capabilities. EndNote and Reference Manager are desktop applications but may also be browser based applications used to publish and manage bibliographies. With these products users e.g. students writing papers professionals publishing research can for example do the following search Internet databases to build personal reference libraries import references from online and CD ROM databases and library catalogs format bibliographies automatically for hundreds of scholarly publications use Cite While You Write feature with Microsoft Word to create bibliographies instantly as references are cited. EndNote Web is a Web based tool for managing and citing references in papers and creating bibliographies. Integrated seamlessly with EndNote desktop and the Web of Knowledgeresearch platform EndNote Web provides an online collaborative environment for existing EndNote users and an entree for undergraduate students requiring a basic bibliographic solution. In one manner the invention provides a text analysis and visualization tool and works seamlessly with EndNote and Reference Manager to provide a powerful way to explore reference libraries visually for major themes and topics. The invention may be integrated with tools that allow users to quickly evaluate vast amounts of references accelerating the research process.

As part of the process a user can select from a list of databases against which the recommendation or suggestion process is to be performed or the system may default to a predefined set of one or more databases. Exemplary databases for use with the present invention include public reference databases e.g. CrossRef and PubMed commercial databases e.g. Web of Science WoS Web of Knowledge WoK and BIOSYS and privately held specialized databases.

The present invention provides the following functional features a text analysis module a personal profile module a recommendation module and may further include word processor integration module communication module source application switching Microsoft Word citation import Section bibliographies Composite citations Link from citations to bibliography Generate an organizational group in source reference management application and Manage references module.

The present invention will now be described in more detail with reference to exemplary embodiments as shown in the accompanying drawings. While the present invention is described herein with reference to the exemplary embodiments it should be understood that the present invention is not limited to such exemplary embodiments. Those possessing ordinary skill in the art and having access to the teachings herein will recognize additional implementations modifications and embodiments as well as other applications for use of the invention which are fully contemplated herein as within the scope of the present invention as disclosed and claimed herein and with respect to which the present invention could be of significant utility.

As described herein the terms writing manuscript paper and article shall be understood to refer to hard and soft documents papers writings and other publications and are all meant to each inherently refer to the other terms as the invention is intended to cover all sorts of publications papers writings articles letters editorials books chapters or other kinds of published papers or documents. The terms text segment or set of text is used broadly to refer to a selected marked highlighted extracted or otherwise indicated set of textual information such as alpha numeric characters contained or to be contained or related to text appearing in a document such as a research paper being authored by a researcher.

With reference to the figures various embodiments of the invention are presented. is a block diagram presenting one embodiment of a configuration of the hardware and software components comprising the present invention. A general purpose operating system is provided as a framework for storing data and executing applications such as to render the general purpose computing system a special purpose computing system as well as policing the flow of input and output information. Exemplary general purpose operating systems are Mac OS from Apple Computer Inc. Windows from Microsoft Corp. and various distributions of the Linux and UNIX operating systems. The present invention provides among other things software platform components that enable an application to perform several functions without leaving the document and the host application. Essentially the document could become a software platform.

In one embodiment the invention provides a computer based system including processor memory and machine readable code stored in memory and executable by processor for providing a citation recommendation. With reference to the system is in client server architecture including a set of databases a server system and a client access device . The system includes at server a citation recommendation module although aspects of this module may reside at client access device such as in the form of an add in or plug in module integrated with a local word processor application. As shown in citation recommendation module is illustrated as citation recommendation module CRM comprising text analysis module TAM personal profile module PPM and system analysis module SAM . The text analysis module the personal profile module and the recommendation module include functional components residing and executed on one or more of a local client device and a central server. In operation a user such as an author preparing a document via word processor application operating on access device identifies marks highlights or otherwise selects a portion of text or text segment from within the document. A signal received from the client device represents the selected text segment and is communicated to the citation recommendation system . TAM performs processes such as natural language algorithms heuristics statistical modeling or weighting idf tf idf co occurrence probability latent semantic indexing and other processes on the received text segment and generates a first output. For example if statistics show that certain references identified as relevant to a selected text segment are often cited popular then they are ranked higher as being more likely to be relevant based on prior authors selecting this reference for citing in their papers in the past. This may be ranked even higher in the event the reference is associated more closely with the area of research associated with the paper in process or the author such as by the PPM.

The TAM output may take the form of a set of potential or candidate citation references or documents or other form of data representation of possible citations for recommending to the user. Examples of text analysis techniques that may be applied in this operation are described for example in U.S. Published Application 2008 0033929 Al Kofahi et al. entitled SYSTEMS METHODS AND SOFTWARE FOR IDENTIFYING RELEVANT LEGAL DOCUMENTS and in U.S. Published Application 2009 0198674 entitled INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SYSTEMS METHODS AND SOFTWARE WITH CONCEPT BASED SEARCHING AND RANKING both of which are incorporated by reference herein in the entirety. Techniques related to textual analysis may include as a pre processing function clustering of documents into logical groups as described for example in U.S. Published Application 2010 0332520 Lu et al. entitled SYSTEMS METHODS AND INTERFACES FOR EXTENDING LEGAL SEARCH RESULTS which is incorporated by reference herein in the entirety. In conjunction with the present invention the clustering may be performed with consideration given to the field of research of the user based on the personal profile. Accordingly the output of TAM may be influenced by the PPM and the CRM may then further refine the results of TAM with the data associated with a personal profile.

Personal profile module receives or accesses information associated with a user or a group of users e.g. collaborators on a project or paper and generates a second output or further processes the output of the TAM. For instance where the output of the TAM is a set of candidate citations or documents the PPM may re rank filter or supplement the set based on user profile data. For instance citations included in prior papers authored by the author or a field of research associated with the author or other criteria may be used to generate an output which output may be the resulting modification to the TAM output. For example the set of results from TAM may include citations identified as in a field of research associated with the user citations identified as outside the field of research associated with the user and citations identified as in a related field of research. The CRM processes the TAM and PPM outputs to arrive at a set of recommended citations for presenting to the user. The citation recommendation module is responsive to the first output of the TAM and the second output of the PPM and generates a set of citation recommendation data.

The personal profile module associates a personal profile record with a first user and receives or accesses information relating to at least one of the following a set of first user publications a set of first user search terms a set of grants or similar funding sources a set of first user search results or saved queries a set of items stored in a personal reference library associated with the first user a set of stored history of user system interactions associated with the first user a set of personal or professional biographical data elements of the first user and a set of personal or professional biographical data elements of other system users associated or connected with the first user. The second output of the PPM may take the form of one or more of the following a list of one or more recommended references or citations from a user s personal reference library a list of one or more recommended references or citations from at least one authority database a list of one or more recommended references or citations from other system user s personal reference libraries or data representations of these items.

In one manner of implementation the PPM output and the output of the TAM delivered to and processed by the citation recommendation module to generate a final set of citation recommendation data which then may be delivered for presentation to a user. In another manner of implementation the PPM may receive or modify the output of the TAM so as to rank re rank filter supplement or otherwise adjust the output to reflect aspects of the personal profile associated with a user in the final set of recommended citation data. The output of the PPM may then be delivered to and processed by the citation recommendation module to generate a final set of citation recommendation data which then may be delivered for presentation to a user. In this manner the data processing flow follows essentially a serial path through the citation recommendation process. For instance the TAM may generate a first set of candidate citations or references or documents and the PPM may rank re rank or filter that set based on personal profile associated with the user to generate a revised or modified set of candidate records which are then further processed by the CRM to yield a set of citation recommendation data. In a further variation the PPM may include data or filter criteria that are delivered to the TAM for consideration in arriving at the first output the PPM may generate a further second output with both outputs delivered to the CRM.

The citation recommendation module may generate at least one of the following a list of one or more recommended references or reference citations a list of one or more recommended search results or saved queries a system response requesting input from the user. The set of citation recommendation data which in one manner includes at least one citation is communicated to a client device or for processing the set of citation recommendation data and for presenting for display a representation of the at least one citation. For instance the presented set of citation recommendation data may be in the form of a GUI including a list of recommended citations from which the user selects a desired citation for inclusion in the document being worked on. The system receives a signal from the client device the signal including a selection associated with the set of citation recommendation data.

The client device operates under a user account associated with a personal profile record and the personal profile module recognizes the user account and generates the second output based at least in part on data contained in the personal profile record. The personal profile module may be used to monitor user interaction and to store usage related data and for associating usage related data with a particular user and this usage data may be used in generating the second output or in modifying the TAM output. A word processing integration module may be included to integrate the text analysis module the personal profile module and the recommendation module with a word processor application. The word processing integration module may be in the form of an add in or a plug in module for installation on a local client processing device. An activation module may be used for initiating operation of the plug in module.

The local client processing device presents graphical user interfaces associated with operation of the invention which interfaces comprise user selection elements to handle user selection associated with the set of citation recommendation data. Through the add in the word processor application operating on the local client processing device processes received user selections. Based on a user selection the add in automatically includes a selected recommended citation into a document operated by the word processor.

The system may include an authority database module adapted to interface with a set of at least one authority database. The set of at least one authority database for example includes one or more of the following a set of full text files a set of meta data records a set of links connecting database elements a set of links to external source databases. The set of at least one authority database includes at least one of the following databases Web of Science Web of Knowledge National Library of Medicine PubMed CrossRef BIOSIS Dialog library OPACS Medline ProQuest Ovid Ebsco WilsonWeb ResearchGate and journal configured external database. The system may present a user interface and receive an input representing a user selection of one or more authority database for searching based on text analysis. The selection of databases may result in full text searching and or in meta data or pseudo document or surrogate searching.

A communication or an electronic mail module communicates the citation recommendation data to a destination application. A tool integration module integrates with at least one reference tool to receive citation data pertaining to at least one citation from the at least one reference tool the set of citation recommendation including at least some data from the received citation data.

One application of the present invention is described as follows. When an author of a scholarly journal article or academic researcher is writing a new paper a search for citable references usually involves a survey of known authors and journals a title search a literature search and a survey of professional societies and university repositories. The Citation Recommendation System helps authors find prior relevant work. Implementation of the CRM may involve citation networks corpus statistics text mining to extract key words and terms of art etc.

One method that is of particular interest utilizes citation loci or referencing text around incoming citations see examples below . For instance this approach may be used in a product for the legal domain that recommends case citations to attorneys as they are drafting briefs. The basic idea is that while a paper may contain several topics or findings it is often cited for only a subset of these topics. The set of referencing text or citation loci represents the reasons why a community of authors cites a paper. It captures their collective judgment why a paper is important. An added benefit to searching citation loci is that it can alleviate the impact of query document term mismatch.

The utility of citation loci in finding relevant citations represents a manner of searching referencing text as opposed to full text and may be used as an alternative to full text search as well as an extension of full text search. The citation locus for a document is ideally the body of all citing text referring to that document. For example consider an article that has been cited as shown in the following excerpts 1 3 as citation 3 with preceding sentence as the text directly related to that reference shown in italics 

Excerpt 1 The envelope of ODV is not well characterized and although it may be composed of multiple proteins the mechanism by which it facilitates the initiation of infection of insect midgut cells is unclear reviewed in 2 . In contrast BV envelopes contain an envelope fusion protein that causes the merging of the virion envelope and the membrane of cellular endocytic vesicles when exposed to low pH. Current evidence suggests that lepidopteran baculoviruses may be divided into two phylogenetic groups based on the envelope fusion proteins of budded virions 3 . One group that includes multinucleocapsid nucleopolyhedrovirus AcMNPV and MNPV OpMNPV contain GP64 in their budded virion envelopes 4 5 . 

Excerpt 2 Homologs of ld130 are found in the genomes of all the sequenced gp64 minus viruses including LdMNPV SeMNPV 8 . GV PxGV 9 and Xestia c nigrum GV XcGV 10 . In addition homologs of ld130 are also found in gp64 containing viruses although they do not appear to be capable of mediating low pH dependent membrane fusion Pearson et al unpublished . In contrast to the close relatedness of baculovirus gp64 homologs the LD130 homologs are highly variable suggesting that gp64 was recently incorporated into a baculovirus genome where it displaced the envelope fusion function of the ld130 homologs 3 . Database searches with LD130 and its homologs routinely identify not only homologous baculovirus proteins . . . 

Excerpt 3 Recently a number of complete baculovirus genome sequences have been described and were found to lack an open reading frame with homology to gp64. Analysis of the genome of the disparMNPV LdMNPV revealed a single on ld130 with predicted signal and transmembrane domains. Characterization of LD130 indicated that it localizes to the membrane of infected cells is a component of budded virions and is N glycosylated. Uninfected cells transiently transfected with a plasmid encoding LD130 showed localization of the protein to the cell membrane and low pH mediated cell fusion suggesting that LD130 is the envelope fusion protein of LdMNPV 3 .

Defining for example the citation locus to be the sentence preceding the citation the citation loci for citation 3 from this set of three reference documents would be as follows Current evidence suggests that lepidopteran baculoviruses may be divided into two phylogenetic groups based on the envelope fusion proteins of budded virions. In contrast to the close relatedness of baculovirus gp64 homologs the LD130 homologs are highly variable suggesting that gp64 was recently incorporated into a baculovirus genome where it displaced the envelope fusion function of the ld130 homologs. Uninfected cells transiently transfected with a plasmid encoding LD130 showed localization of the protein to the cell membrane and low pH mediated cell fusion suggesting that LD130 is the envelope fusion protein of LdMNPV. In this manner rather than searching the full text of article 3 the search is based on text in other articles related to the referencing text related to the citation of article 3 in other papers. In essence searching a pseudo document or surrogate document concatenated from referencing text to arrive at a match or recommendation. As an alternative the text following the citation loci while intuitively less likely to be relevant that the preceding text may be also considered in this process. The particular implementation of citation loci search for scholarly articles may be refined based on tested effectiveness.

Techniques associated with this type of referencing text search and integration with local word processing application is discussed in U.S. Published Application No. 2012 0036125 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR INTEGRATING WEB BASED SYSTEMS WITH LOCAL DOCUMENT PROCESSING APPLICATIONS the contents of which is hereby incorporated by reference in the entirety herein.

In one manner of operation a pre processing of one or more corpus of documents yields a search collection based on citation loci referencing text. The one or more corpus may be selected based on domain or field of interest. For instance using the BioMed Central open access full text corpus for text mining research. The corpus consists of roughly 120 000 articles of peer reviewed research articles in the biomedical domain.

Citation Loci Collection To build the citation loci search collection the pre processing traverses the BioMed Central corpus text. When a citation to a document is found the search database saves the citing text for the document. The result of traversing of the entire corpus will be a new document containing all citing text in BioMed Central for each document that has at least one citation in the corpus. In this manner the referencing text is concatenated to yield the citation loci search corpus.

To test the effectiveness of this approach a standard full text search may be performed on the original corpus and compared against a citation loci search performed on the citation loci corpus using the same set of queries. The results may be evaluated to determine the effectiveness of searching citation loci and to determine modifications to the technique. In one example start with defining a citation locus as a set number of words or other delimiter such as preceding sentence that occur before the citation. Selecting and reviewing e.g. several hundred examples of such loci at random may lead to modifying the definition of a citation locus i.e. number and location of words to improve effectiveness. The effectiveness of this technique may vary and depend on the nature of the original corpus and the subject field of interest. The citation loci collection may be loaded for processing on a search platform e.g. Thomson Reuters Novus search platform aspects of which are described in U.S. Published Application No. US 2005 0004898 entitled DISTRIBUTED SEARCH METHODS ARCHITECTURES SYSTEMS AND SOFTWARE the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein in the entirety.

In addition to full text and citation loci search alternative text analysis may include collaborative filtering e.g. for authors and papers citation networks e.g. co citations corpus statistics e.g. citation priors for a particular paper author institution author to author relationships co authorship etc document structure e.g. literature review vs method description citation relevancy to a document author profiles terms of arts associated with an author text mining to identify terms of art etc.

Databases includes a set of primary databases PDC a set of secondary databases RTC and a set of metadata databases and that represent resources relied on by users such as researchers students doctors lawyers and other professionals. Primary databases in the exemplary embodiment may be proprietary subscription based or internal to a service provider such as the Thomson Reuters Corporation and for example include a Wos WoK database Cortellus and a TR Innovation database s . Secondary databases which may be external or public represent further resources of interest to a group of users and may supplement authorities to those offered by the primary database. In this example the secondary databases include PubMed database an AMJUR database and a Crossref.org database . Metadata databases include for instance citation relationships abstracts links classification data and other source data. Embodiments may include databases that include legal research financial scientific or health care information.

Databases which take the exemplary form of one or more electronic magnetic or optical data storage devices include or are otherwise associated with respective indices not shown . Each of the indices includes terms and phrases in association with corresponding document addresses identifiers and other conventional information. Databases are coupled or couplable via a wireless or wireline communications network such as a local wide private or virtual private network to server .

Server which is generally representative of one or more servers for serving data in the form of webpages or other markup language forms with associated applets ActiveX controls remote invocation objects or other related software and data structures to service clients of various thicknesses. More particularly server includes a processor module a memory module a subscriber database a primary search module metadata research module and a user interface module . Processor module includes one or more local or distributed processors controllers or virtual machines. In the exemplary embodiment processor module assumes any convenient or desirable form. Memory module which takes the exemplary form of one or more electronic magnetic or optical data storage devices stores subscriber database primary search module secondary search module and user interface module .

With respect to the present invention a citation search and recommendation module includes executable code either executed in whole or in part at either of server and or client access device adapted to perform text analysis on a set of selected text received from a document and to perform analysis on a personal profile such as a record related to an individual user or group of collaborators to arrive at a set of recommended citations from which a citation may be selected for insertion in a working document such as a research paper for submission for publishing in a journal. This functionality is discussed in detail hereinbelow.

Subscriber database includes subscriber related data for controlling administering and managing pay as you go or subscription based access of databases . In the exemplary embodiment subscriber database includes one or more user preference or more generally user data structures. In the exemplary embodiment one or more aspects of the user data structure relate to user customization of various search and interface options. To this end some embodiments include user profile information such as biographical information institution association e.g. university corporation society etc. area of practice or study or research e.g. asthma allergy and prior publications. User data A E may be used to authenticate user credentials and grant access to subscriber based resources or work spaces. For seamless access across multiple platforms and or services or resources an integrated credentialing service may be used e.g. Thomson Reuters OnePass solution.

Primary search module includes one or more search engines and related user interface components for receiving and processing data against one or more of databases . In the exemplary embodiment one or more search engines associated with search module provide Boolean tf idf natural language analysis capabilities. Secondary module includes one or more search engines for processing data against one or more of databases .

Information integration tools IIT framework module or software framework or platform includes machine readable and or executable instruction sets for wholly or partly defining software and related user interfaces having one or more portions thereof that integrate or cooperate with one or more document processing applications. Exemplary document processing or document authoring or editing applications include word processing applications email applications presentation applications and spreadsheet applications. In the exemplary embodiment these applications would be hosted on one or more accesses devices e.g. device .

Access device may take the form of a personal computer workstation personal digital assistant mobile telephone or any other device capable of providing an effective user interface with a server or database. Specifically access device includes a processor module one or more processors or processing circuits a memory a display a keyboard and a graphical pointer or selector . Processor module includes one or more processors processing circuits or controllers. In the exemplary embodiment processor module takes any convenient or desirable form. Coupled to processor module is memory .

Memory stores code machine readable or executable instructions for an operating system a browser application software including document processing software. In the exemplary embodiment operating system takes the form of a version of the Microsoft Windows operating system and browser takes the form of a version of Microsoft Internet Explorer. Operating system and browser not only receive inputs from keyboard and selector but also support rendering of graphical user interfaces on display . In the exemplary embodiment document processing software includes one or more word processing applications e.g. Microsoft Word processing software Powerpoint presentation software Excel spreadsheet software and Outlook email software. Document processing software may integrated with information integration tools which may be for example downloaded from server via a wired or wireless communication link established with for example an ISP. Upon launching of the document processing software an integrated document processing and information retrieval graphical user interface is defined in memory and rendered on display . Upon rendering interface presents data in association with one or more interactive control features or user interface elements . In the exemplary embodiment each of these control features takes the form of a hyperlink or other browser compatible command input. User selection of some control features results in retrieval and display of at least a portion of the corresponding document within a region of interface . Regions may be simultaneously displayed or at separate times.

Interface includes document processing tool bar region document processing editing and display region and integrated information region s . In the exemplary embodiment region includes control and display elements for external content and services such as a listing of one two or more web apps or locally supported apps provided by server and databases specifically the web apps and framework components of module . Region includes control and display elements for metadata content related to completing a task related to authoring a document loaded into document processing active editing window . In some embodiments region takes the form of a user dashboard and includes specific workflow information and control elements related to the user who launched the document processing application and or generic workflow information accessible via the user. In some embodiment the user may select a workflow step or task within region and initiate update of the content or available tools and services of module .

Also in the exemplary embodiment the information integration tools include local desktop tools. These tools may be made available through an exemplary software platform or framework of module from server . As discussed in more detail below one or more portions of tools APIs and software are downloaded and installed as an add on or add in framework and set of associated APIs to host application . In the exemplary embodiment the framework generally allows for building applications that operate in a user desktop workflow scenario. The exemplary framework or platform can be broken down into the following layers or silos. Hooks Mechanism in the host application such as a toolbar button in MS Word word processing application to invoke the container. Container The area such as a command bar object in MS Word application where the feature applications are hosted. Applications Feature applications that support a specific set of features. Service Blocks Infrastructure pieces that feature applications can leverage.

A hook in the exemplary embodiment is designed as a mechanism for users to open the container from a host application. The hook loads itself inside that host application and then loads the container. A hook also introduces a uniform way to see the content. The hook through the use of application programming interfaces APIs provides a way to get at extract and or insert data of the particular opened document within the host application. A host application could be any Microsoft desktop application WordPerfect Adobe Professional or a web browser e.g. Internet Explorer Netscape FireFox etc. . In one example the host application is Microsoft Word. The exemplary embodiment provides single add in for all supported Word versions. One way of achieving this support is to add an abstraction layer based on the use of reflection into the version specific library to allow the same code to work for all versions of Word. The abstraction layer is based on the most recent version and falls back on earlier supported method calls if needed. It also fails gracefully when the functionality is missing in the Word version. Additionally the layer implements changes to add in to determine the correct version specific library to load and all method calls to Word object model using reflection.

For host application integration of the software platform many interfaces provide support for including a hook that assists the host application to provide the user interface UI real estate for the container as well as providing the integration mechanism itself. The UI real estate is an area on the screen set aside for the container and a toolbar button. The host application is responsible for creating this space and creating an instance of Forms.DynamicContainer. Generally a window is created as the parent of the DynamicContainer. Additionally the host is responsible for providing the ability to resize the area for the DynamicContainer.

In one example the software platform is a managed .Net product with the Common Language Runtime CLR at the core and is loaded into the host process. CLR is a platform for software development that provides services by consuming metadata. In one embodiment the software platform provides support and help for creating unmanaged host integrations using C COM. From a COM based language the CLRLoader can be used to load the CLR into process and invoke a designated managed class in a separate assembly to bridge into managed code and the rest of the add in implementation. The CLRLoader is a COM object that can be created using standard COM methods CoCreatelnstance etc . It provides an interface that starts the CLR and can load a managed class from an assembly with information provided in a configuration file. The managed class that is created by the CLRLoader must be given the HostShim Attribute and the user must define a method called Configure that returns a void and has a single object parameter. The software platform host application should implement the interface. Additionally all the interfaces defined in the project file document.cs are implemented on a set of classes to provide access to the document content of the host application.

In some exemplary embodiments the container is designed to host feature application features and functions. However some embodiments host the feature application itself. Hosted within the container is a browser control or mini embedded browser. The browser control does application user interface UI rendering and script execution. An exemplary browser control is Internet Explorer but any web browser or equivalent would be acceptable as well. UI rendering refers to displaying the user interface of the feature application within the container. The feature application UI s are developed using html and Cascading Style Sheets CSS but some embodiments use other browser based technologies such as ASP.Net pages Silverlight applications Adobe Flash applications etc. Much of the functionality of the feature applications is implemented in the JavaScript programming language. Embedded in the browser control is a JavaScript execution engine that reads the script and performs the requested operations defined in the JavaScript program.

Feature applications are designed with intent of reusing the software platform and functionality. They are developed independently but may be dependent on the software platform components. For example one app inserts and updates flags. Assuming the software platform already has a communication service block and diagnostics service block service blocks described in further detail below the communication service block could be used to gather flag information and the diagnostics service block could be used to add tracing and logging into the application as well as add exception handling into the application.

Another example feature application provides linking to referenced documents. This feature application relies on Office Integration to provide a handle to the document in focus within Word. The application should also include the ability to select referenced documents for analysis. A diagnostics service block with the software platform may be used to add tracing and logging into the application as well as add exception handling into the application.

There are a wide variety of ways to develop an application that can be hosted within the software platform container. At a minimum in the exemplary embodiment the user needs to provide an XML feature file that informs the software platform where the HTML page for the UI resides and the HTML UI itself. The Features XML file is a simple XML document that contains the URL for the main UI for a given feature application. It consists of a root element a single child element whose content is the URL of the HTML User Interface of the application. This features XML file is deployed to the user s desktop. The UI can take the form of a static HTML page or other web application language. The inclusion of a script tag for the inject.cs script file facilitates access to the desktop injected items of the Host and ServiceLocator. The ServiceLocator is used to create instances of other Desktop Services by name. The UI location is constrained by the container and thus influences design of the UI.

If the application needs to access content from within the software platform host application the exemplary embodiment references the two JavaScript files inject.cs and Load.cs that are a part of the software platform main web package. JavaScript interacts with the desktop services provided. This gives access to a JavaScript reference to the host object as well as the locator ServiceLocator object. Finally if the application provides a desktop service the service implementation See Software Platform Exemplary Service Practices section is provided in an installable package.

Feature applications call service blocks which are designed with the intent of reusability and expose the services of those feature applications. In other words the purpose of service blocks is to supply local reusable components to a feature application. The functionality can be accessed via JavaScript and or by referencing the necessary .Net assemblies. Examples of application building platform components that can be leveraged are more fully detailed and set forth in U.S. Published Application Publ. No. 2010 0115401 entitled SYSTEM AND METHODS FOR WEB BASED CONTROL OF DESKTOP APPLICATIONS the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein by reference.

In one embodiment of operating a system using the present invention an add on framework is installed and one or more tools or APIs on server are loaded onto one or more client devices . In the exemplary embodiment this entails a user directing a browser in a client access device such as access device to Internet protocol IP address for an online information retrieval system such as the Westlaw system and then logging onto the system using a username and or password. Successful login results in a web based interface being output from server stored in memory and displayed by client access device . The interface includes an option for initiating download of information integration software with corresponding toolbar plug ins for one or more applications. If the download option is initiated download administration software ensures that the client access device is compatible with the information integration software and detects which document processing applications on the access device are compatible with the information integration software. With user approval the appropriate software is downloaded and installed on the client device. In one alternative an intermediary firm network server may receive one or more of the framework tools APIs and add on software for loading onto one or more client devices using internal processes.

Once installed in whatever fashion a user may then be presented an online tools interface in context with a document processing application. In the exemplary embodiment this entails a user launching and opening or creating a document using one or more of the following independent applications Microsoft Word word processing application Corel WordPerfect word processing application Internet Explorer browser application Adobe Acrobat desktop publishing application and Microsoft Outlook email application. As used herein word processor and word processing application refers broadly to document processors and document processing applications and the use of word and document should be given broad meaning in the context of units of communication and include such forms as electronic mail and other discrete forms of electronic communications or containers of information. Add on software for one or more of these applications is simultaneous invoked which in turn results in presentation of the add on menu. The add on menu includes a listing of web services or application and or locally hosted tools or services. A user selects via the tools interface such as manually via a pointing device. Once selected the selected tool or more precisely its associated instructions is executed. In the exemplary embodiment this entails communicating with corresponding instructions or web application on server which in turn may provide dynamic scripting and control of the host word processing application using one or more APIs stored on the host application as part of the add on framework.

For example the user launches the host application i.e. Microsoft Word WordPerfect etc. to work on a document e.g. research paper. A Word processor Software Framework WSF interface includes code add on or module that may be loaded as an add on to the host application e.g. App . This will load the WSF Document API the WSF Application Container initialize the installed Application List and create the UI elements Ribbons toolbars menu items etc. . The user opens a document and selects the desired WSF Application from a list of applications presented via the integrated UI elements. WSF displays the application within the WSF Container and navigates the embedded browser to the applications base URL server appropriate portion of IIT module . WSF applications can be installed and run as Local HTA i.e. locally installed HTML JS CSS etc. Enterprise web application intranet or extranet or Internet web application for example. WSF injects the WSF Document API references into the JavaScript execution engine for access from the applications JavaScript. The document in display active edit window of host application such as a word processing application preserves the context of the application in WSF i.e. each document has its own instance of WSF which can be customized based on user preferences .

The WSF JavaScript execution engine allows the application code to run. The application can use the WSF API s to access the contents of the opened host i.e. Microsoft Word WordPerfect etc. Document including modifications to these documents. The WSF API s exposed to the client include but are not limited to collection of Open Documents including API methods for accessing Document specific data collections of Paragraphs Footnotes Endnotes Tables of Authority hyperlinks images and many other document content objects within a specific open document and the ability to create a Location object to represent a given textual location within the document.

The WSF API methods that are called by the application in turn will call methods exposed by the Host application ex. Microsoft Word . The manner in which these calls are done is Host application specific and dependent on facilities exposed by the Host application. The WSF manages the mappings between its own API and the functionality exposed by the Host. Additionally the application can use native browser capabilities and other WSF functionality to communicate with web services available locally on the host machine at enterprise intranet or extranet or the over the Internet.

Client side application software may be stored on machine readable medium and comprising instructions executed for example by the processor of computer and presentation of web based interface screens facilitate the interaction between user system and central system . The operating system should be suitable for use with the system and browser functionality described herein for example Microsoft Windows Vista business enterprise and ultimate editions Windows 7 or Windows XP Professional with appropriate service packs. The system may require the remote user or client machines to be compatible with minimum threshold levels of processing capabilities e.g. Intel Pentium III speed e.g. 500 MHz minimal memory levels and other parameters.

The configurations thus described are ones of many and are not limiting as to the invention. Central system may include a network of servers computers and databases such as over a LAN WLAN Ethernet token ring FDDI ring or other communications network infrastructure. Any of several suitable communication links are available such as one or a combination of wireless LAN WLAN ISDN X.25 DSL and ATM type networks for example. Software to perform functions associated with system may include self contained applications within a desktop or server or network environment and may utilize local databases such as SQL 2005 or above or SQL Express IBM DB2 or other suitable database to store documents collections and data associated with processing such information. In the exemplary embodiments the various databases may be a relational database. In the case of relational databases various tables of data are created and data is inserted into and or selected from these tables using SQL or some other database query language known in the art. In the case of a database using tables and SQL a database application such as for example MySQL SQLServer Oracle 8I 10G or some other suitable database application may be used to manage the data. These tables may be organized into an RDS or Object Relational Data Schema ORDS as is known in the art.

In one example an author using the computer executes a document rendering or processing application . According to one embodiment of the invention the document rendering application is a word processor used to draft text and similar mixed media documents such as MICROSOFT WORD . Alternatively the document rendering application may comprise a HTML text editor such as provided by MICROSOFT or BBEDIT by Bare Bones Software Inc. Indeed all software systems designed to manipulate and render text data files fall within the scope of the present invention.

Many document rendering applications comprise the capability to expand the functionality of the application through the use of a plug in or similar architecture. The exemplary system of the present invention includes a citation editor add in client and may include GUI functionality and that provides citation processing within the context of the document rendering application . The author is provided access to functionality of the citation editor add in by clicking graphical toolbar elements and menu commands that the citation editor add in offers. Alternatively the citation editor add in may be a supplemental program that adds custom commands or custom features to an application. It should be noted that the citation editor add in as well as the other components of the present invention may be embodied as software stored on computer readable media that when loaded by a computer or when accessed by a computer such as through a web portal instructs the computer to execute the processes or otherwise presents remotely executed functionality described in greater detail herein.

According to one embodiment of the invention the citation editor add in may be e.g. a COM Component Object Model object designed to be loaded and run in one or more Microsoft Office applications. COM add ins are designed to connect to and disconnect from one or more Office applications using an architecture that is shared between the applications. The citation editor add in may be implemented with any number of programming tools capable of creating DLLs Dynamic Link Libraries .

The citation editor add in provides access to multiple functions related to searching for citations presenting recommended citation data selecting from recommended citation data and inserting recommended citation data as well as bibliographies. Exemplary functionality includes the capability to find edit and insert citations access to an external citation application format a bibliography and may include user usage monitoring and tracking. The citation editor add in also provides instant formatting of citations such as be a selection of citation style or the like while an author is drafting a document. According to embodiments of the invention the citation may comprise a graphic such as a drawing or chart that is being cited.

When the document rendering application is executed the citation editor add in is loaded. The citation editor add in implements the menu and toolbar elements which provide communication to the citation recommendation system or application which may include functionality executed locally at client device or remotely at ISP and the document rendering application as required to implement or execute the command selected by the document author e.g. suggest citations discussed hereinbelow. According to one embodiment this communication in implemented by way of COM interfaces exposed by the document rendering application and the citation recommendation system or application . Furthermore the citation editor add in monitors the document being processed by the user e.g. from documents for conditions that require citation processing e.g. the presence of a selected text segment and or the presence of a citation marker loci or location appearing within the document.

In addition the system may include a reference library e.g. loaded locally by a reference tool or accessed remotely by the citation recommendation system or application or associated with a personal profile record when the document rendering application is operated. The reference library may serve as an intermediary between the citation editor add in and the citation recommendation system or application . In one manner the library may convert data from an initial format to a format that is native to the citation recommendation system or application . For example where the citation editor add in is implemented as a COM object the library translates COM data elements into data elements that adhere to the communication protocol or format that is native to the citation recommendation system or application e.g. provides the COM interface.

Further source application switching provides a method to store an identical reference library in a desktop database and on the Web insert references into a document from either location and seamlessly format and update citations from either source application. Microsoft Word citation import provides a mechanism to harvest XML citation data inserted into a document by Microsoft Word 2007 or later and to convert this into a preferred predefined or proprietary in document data format. Section bibliographies provides a mechanism to identify section markers within a document and to create separate bibliographies at the end of each section with or without a complete bibliography at the end of the document. Composite citations provides a mechanism for treating a group of references as one composite citation grouped together as one entry in a bibliography and distinguished individually by specific alphanumeric labels as specified by a given set of bibliographic formatting rules. Link from citations to bibliography provides a mechanism for navigating to an entry in a bibliography by clicking on an in text citation which is treated as a hyperlink for this purpose. Generate an organizational group in source reference management application provides a mechanism to automatically create within the source reference management application an organizational grouping of the references being used in a document which grouping is then updated automatically as references are inserted into the document or deleted from the document. Manage references from multiple libraries provides support for inserting references into a document from multiple reference libraries and provides a user interface which indicates the source library for each reference and allows the user to update individual references from their source library or to replace a reference with a version from another library.

In one example an author may supply an incomplete or partial citation within a document or selected text segment of the document or closely associated with a marker or loci in the document. The citation recommendation system or application may recognize the partial citation data within a selected text segment and thereby narrow and facilitate the citation recommendation process or it may automatically modify the partial citation data to provide a complete formatted citation bypassing the need for presenting a recommended citation set. In conjunction with the present invention a citation editor may periodically scan the document to identify temporary citations and automatically complete and correct such partial citations. A GUI may be presented for user confirmation of the inserted citation and or to facilitate a search for a recommended citation set. Exemplary functionality is disclosed in U.S. Published Application No. 2012 0072422 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CITATION PROCESSING PRESENTATION AND TRANSPORT AND FOR VALIDATING REFERENCES the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

In operation when selecting a text segment for input to the citation recommendation system or application upon processing the text selected along with the personal profile associated with the user the system generates a resulting set of recommended citations from which the user may choose. Upon choosing the citation that the author wishes to insert into the document the citation data is passed to the document via operation of the word processor and citation editor add in for insertion into the document. In one manner field codes that references citation data may be inserted into the document which may be stored in local or remote citation libraries maintained by the user or a third party data provider. The field codes are links to underlying citation data that is used as a source for the formatted citation displayed in the document. The format defined through the field codes may be set by author defined parameters. Various scholarly journals have different constraints regarding the formatting requirement for citations. For example the Journal of the American Medical Association may require that citations adhere to a first format while the journal Science may require a wholly different citation format. The system of the present invention may advantageously be supplied with citation format parameters for well known journals and publications. In this manner an author may ensure that citations within a document adhere to a target publication s citation specifications simply by selecting the publication through an interface whereby the parameters are automatically set. Furthermore functionality may be provided whereby an author may change the target publication for a document causing the software to traverse the document and modify the format of the citations contained therein to adhere to the new target publication s citation specifications.

Additionally an author may edit selected citations that have previously been inserted into a document. For example an author may revise a set of text surrounding an inserted citation which may cause the system to automatically or by user control process the revised text segment to determine if the inserted citation is still valid or the most highly related citation based on the text analysis and personal profile data. The system may provide the user a revised set of recommended citations from which to choose to replace the previously inserted citation.

The invention may be used in conjunction with an authoring submission and validation system e.g. EndNote using EndNote XML reference mark up for preparing structured formatted documents. Such software applications may be used to format Microsoft Word documents by identifying and tagging data contained in the document prior to submission to a publisher. For instance documents may be marked or tagged using by way of example only and not limitation processes based on GML SGML or XML. By marking or tagging the document to create a structured document e.g. using GML SGML or XML based mark up the cited references may be more easily extracted from the document and included in a reference list for validation. The present invention may be used to validate a set of proposed citations. A structured document may be formatted according to specific bibliographic style using application functions. For instance the EndNote Tool Bar may be invoked to call up APIs application programming interfaces of MS Word hidden code fields. The structured Word document may be loaded or uploaded into a work flow system e.g. Manuscript Central in communication with a database. In addition the system may provide for automatic hyper linking between in text citation and a bibliography associated with the document a project the user personal profile record or a database.

Another exemplary workflow is when a user is collaborating with another author co author on a common document or project. The authors may access the common document or portions thereof e.g. chapters of a book or treatise with both having the ability to insert citations.

In one exemplary method of operation and with reference to the flow of the following processes are performed. Initially at step a user highlights selects or marks text within a document presented in a word processing application. At step the user submits the highlighted text to the CRM for analyzing the highlighted text segment. The CRM generates a first output based at least in part on the text segment e.g. including search e.g. natural language search to generate a data representation for identifying citations related to terms contained within the text segment. At step the system searches generates and presents a set of results for a Reference Text Collection RTC optionally rank the set of results . The search may employ traditional search techniques e.g. natural language processing and or it may include a citation loci search discussed hereinbelow in detail . At step the system analyzes data associated with a personal profile and generates data representation or aggregate filter rank or re rank sets of results. At step the system receiving and analyzing the first output and the second output and generating a set of citation recommendation data based at least in part on the first and second outputs. The processes of steps may be performed in part outside the user experience. At step the system returns and presents for display via a user interface a set of recommended citations to a user. The user then performs such as via GUI further operations e.g. selecting a recommended citation from a list of recommended citations to incorporate aspects of the set of recommended citations into the user document opened in the word processing application.

Personal profile module receives or accesses information associated with a user and generates a second output or further processes the output of the TAM . The CRM processes the TAM and PPM outputs to arrive at a set of recommended citations for presenting to the user . The citation recommendation module is responsive to the first output of the TAM and the second output of the PPM and generates a set of citation recommendation data. In addition a system analysis module may be included to incorporate further functionality directed to processing system information for use in arriving at a set of recommended citations.

In operation the system and in particular recommendation module may refer to one or more authority databases in determining a set of recommended citations to present to user . Authority databases may represent databases of citations or documents recognized as being highly credible in a given are or research.

The user interface also provides a comprehensive set of researcher tools as the exemplary embodiment is researcher centric or focused to deliver a heightened experience to the user. In particular CRS also includes a grant matcher or funding finder team or project workspace personal citation calculator smart cloud storage and self publishing . With grant matcher the CRS may apply the personal profile information in conjunction with awareness of past or current research activities of the user to automatically or by focused direction of the user monitor available resources to identify and match potential sources of grant and research funding. For instance a grant publicized at grants.gov seeking research in a particular area of research may be matched up with user profile and activities. CRS upon identifying such a potential match may generate an email or indicate the potential match via an area on a user s home page or dashboard. Team or project workspace reflects a shared path to project or paper information and access. For example multiple authors working together or separately on individual chapters of a book or sections of a paper are provided access to monitor research activity and a common link to citation and document data and the CRS may take into account collaborative activity in arriving at recommendations for a user.

CRS includes access to a variety of data sources including content and tools related to content. For example CRS includes means to communicate with premium or proprietary content which may be internal to an organization hosting the CRS service such as offered by Thomson Reuters including Web of Knowledge WoS Web of Science WoS Cortellis Westlaw and Thomson Innocation and resources offered by others such as Mendeley research networks Google Scholar RSS SciVerse Microsoft Academic Search IEEE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers ExLibris Scopus and Ebsco. The CRS system also may access external or public database s and resources e.g. PubMed.gov crossref.org. CRS also includes a data store to record usage data which may be used to enhance the personal profile data and may be used to further refine recommendations made by the system. Crowd sourced content may include social media related information user libraries etc.

With reference to the exemplary embodiment shown in the local client processing device includes an electronic user dashboard or web portal page for displaying multiple areas and topics of interest for example search citation recommendation search parameters search database or resource selection or filter user activity document or project related data collaborator activity grant or funding related data project timeline or management workflow data filtering criteria and search history.

The PPM of the citation recommendation system accesses and analyzes multiple forms of personal profile data such as those identified above to assist in the citation recommendation process. For instance a paper often cited by the user may be added to a set of candidate citations generated by the TAM or it may be re ranked to a higher position of relevance if already included in the TAM output. Also as many authors prefer to self cite for a variety of reasons the user s own papers may be supplemented to the TAM output or may be ranked higher if included in the TAM output. Also an existing reference library such as maintained by a user in EndNote may be considered in ranking or including in the set of citation recommendations.

Further the PPM may use data as meta data to a paper journal or project. For instance meta data may be associated with a domain such as a field of research. Certain fields of research may be characterized as dynamic or rapidly changing while other fields of research may be well established and characterized as relatively not dynamic meaning substantial changes in the body of research happen more gradually. The system differentiates between dynamic and not dynamic fields of research such that it may rank more recent papers higher than papers further removed in time from the present paper in process. This meta data associated with domain may also be used to filter out older papers. This threshold time period of relevancy depends on the area of research. This may be offset by ranking certain often cited popular papers such as seminal works more highly or passing through the filter. In this manner the system is making a determination that for certain areas of research papers released more than a set time period are less likely to be relevant.

Similarly a journal associated with a dynamic domain may be treated differently that a journal associated with a less dynamic domain. Likewise a paper may have meta data associated with it and may be identified as related to a dynamic or not dynamic area of research. This sort of analysis may be reflected in the data representation generated by the PPM in the second output or conditioning of the TAM output. This sort of meta data may be used in the TAM process as well and in fact search collections may comprise such meta data which may be processed as a pseudo document or surrogate document record.

The CRS may have functionality and databases accessed remotely or in part locally residing in association with the plug in. In operation a cookie connection is established between remote online login credentialing and local plug in operation. The CRS generates a list of recommended citations responsive to the text segment submitted and to personal profile data associated with the user or user account. The user may then select from the list of recommended citations for insertion in the document . In addition the system provides along with the list additional access to information about the recommended citations for example related items view full text add to my EndNote library WoS times cited statistic. In one manner the list may include a means for receiving user feedback as to the relevance of suggested citations. For instance if a user feels certain citations are not particularly relevant then a check box may be used to receive the user s feedback. This feedback information may be used to add to the intelligence of the system and to help train the citation recommendation system. Citations selected by the individual may be added to a bibliographic record the user s reference library such as maintained by EndNote tool or in other locations. In this manner a user or a group of users collaborators or an institution can generate an expert library of references for use across an organization. Also in selecting a recommended citation the system may update the user personal profile such as a meta data record associated with the user and historical tracking of usage. As discussed above such activities are reported to the user s portal or dashboard and to collaborator portals and dashboards.

The present invention is not to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments described herein It is fully contemplated that other various embodiments of and modifications to the present invention in addition to those described herein will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from the foregoing description and accompanying drawings. Thus such other embodiments and modifications are intended to fall within the scope of the following appended claims. Further although the present invention has been described herein in the context of particular embodiments and implementations and applications and in particular environments those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that its usefulness is not limited thereto and that the present invention can be beneficially applied in any number of ways and environments for any number of purposes. Accordingly the claims set forth below should be construed in view of the full breadth and spirit of the present invention as disclosed herein.

