---

title: Apparatus, systems and methods for interactive dissemination of knowledge
abstract: Embodiments of apparatus, systems and methods facilitate knowledge dissemination and promote knowledge acquisition, in part, by automatically presenting elements of an interlinked knowledge base to optimize learning efficiency. In some embodiments, content associated with a plurality of linked subject items in a knowledge base is disseminated to a user based on rankings determined using a priority value associated with candidate subject items. The candidacy is determined and the priority value is computed based on, at least in part, user-specific understanding values corresponding to the candidate subject items; user-specific understanding values of at least one of a plurality of basic subject items linked to the candidate subject items, and user-specific understanding values of at least one of plurality of advanced subject items linked to the candidate subject items. Content associated with the plurality of candidate subject items may be displayed to the user in order of rank based upon user interest.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08832117&OS=08832117&RS=08832117
owner: Su-Kam Intelligent Education Systems, Inc.
number: 08832117
owner_city: Pasadena
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120206
---
The present invention relates to the field of education and in particular to apparatus systems and methods for facilitating knowledge dissemination and promoting knowledge acquisition in part by automatically presenting elements of an interlinked knowledge base in a way that optimizes learning efficiency.

Knowledge may be viewed as a collection of concepts models facts and tools pertaining to subject matter which are interlinked and rich with dependencies. Good educators know it is not enough to teach a subject as a collection of unrelated facts instead presenting ideas in a manner which makes students aware of the connections between ideas facilitates a transition from memorization and superficial understanding of the subject to true learning.

Effective instruction involves a presentation of concepts selected sequenced and timed so as to be congruent with a student s learning state which may be seen as a function of the student s interests abilities and prior knowledge. For example basic principles may be introduced to lay the groundwork for more advanced formulations examples may be provided to reinforce key points and old concepts may be reviewed while introducing new ones in a way that maintains a student s interest.

Because students can vary widely in their learning states the presentation of concepts in a manner that facilitates effective learning will likewise vary between students. However in a conventional school setting students in a class are exposed uniformly to the same sequence of topics over time which severely constrains learning because a progression of ideas that may enlighten one student will likely perplex another. Moreover learning state variations between students are likely to be accentuated as budgetary constraints and various economic factors contribute to accelerating the trend toward larger class sizes and higher student teacher ratios at many schools thereby decreasing the likelihood of student success.

Computer assisted teaching has been used to provide a customized learning experience to individuals making it more feasible to effectively teach large numbers of students with varied learning states. Typically teachers create a database of subject items and a computer system may permit students to pick from a variety of subject items to aid understanding. Students may also be permitted to repeat subject items to reinforce understanding.

However while conventional computer aided teaching systems are good at covering narrow subjects with disjoint concepts they are poor at covering broader subjects that include complex connections between ideas. For example conventional computer aided teaching systems are more effective at teaching vocabulary than language more effective at teaching multiplication tables than algebra and more effective at teaching dates of historical events than history. Current teaching systems focus on retention and fail to adequately address the connections between concepts thereby favoring memorization over learning.

Thus there is a need for apparatus systems and methods that facilitate interactive learning through an adaptive and automated progression through an interlinked knowledge base in a way that promotes both the understanding of individual items and the connections between them and in a sequence designed to maintain reinforce and advance student knowledge over time.

Consistent with embodiments disclosed herein apparatus systems and methods for facilitating the dissemination of knowledge and the promotion of knowledge acquisition are presented. In some embodiments a method for facilitating the dissemination of content associated with a plurality of linked subject items in a knowledge base wherein individual subject items are associated with corresponding user specific understanding values comprises ranking at least one of a plurality of candidate subject items for presentation to at least one user based on priority values associated with the candidate subject items. The candidacies are determined and the priority values are computed based at least in part on the user specific understanding values corresponding to the at least one of a plurality of candidate subject items the user specific understanding values of at least one of a plurality of basic subject items linked to the at least one candidate subject item and the user specific understanding values of at least one of plurality of advanced subject items linked to the at least one candidate subject item. Content associated with at least one of the plurality of candidate subject items may then be displayed to a user in order of rank. In some embodiments user specific linkage strengths are used to indicate a strength of association between pairs of linked subject items in the knowledge base and the linkage strengths are used in the determination of candidacies and the computation of the priority values.

Embodiments also relate to software firmware and program instructions created stored accessed or modified by computers and or processors using computer readable media or computer readable memory. The methods described may be performed on various computing devices including distributed computing systems such as clouds.

Consistent with embodiments disclosed herein apparatus systems and methods for facilitating knowledge dissemination and promoting knowledge acquisition are presented.

In some embodiments computing device may take the form of a desktop laptop and or a tablet computer a smart phone a handheld computing device or a special purpose apparatus that facilitates knowledge dissemination and acquisition in a manner consistent with embodiments disclosed herein. In general computing device may be a multifunction device i.e. cell phone smart phone audio player personal digital assistant portable gaming device electronic book reader handheld computing device laptop or desktop machine which are often capable of displaying a rich variety of media such as audio animation three dimensional graphics and may even generate smells and provide tactile response. In some embodiments one or more of the above display and or sensory modes in computing device may be used to enhance knowledge dissemination and promote knowledge acquisition. In some embodiments computing device may also comprise non volatile memory capable of storing program code operating systems knowledge bases etc.

Computing device may have one or more processors including a Central Processing Unit CPU and may be able to communicate wirelessly with cloud and server farm . Wireless communication may occur over Wi Fi based on the IEEE 802.11 family of standards or variants thereof using wireless access points and or over mobile communication networks such as 3rd Generation mobile telecommunication 3G and or 4Generation mobile telecommunication 4G networks such as Long Term Evolution LTE LTE Advanced or Wi Max and variants thereof using one or more supported communication protocols. Computing device may also be able to communicate with other computers and or storage media over traditional wired networks. Computing device may include a variety of ports for communication including Ethernet ports Universal Serial Bus USB ports Serial Advanced Technology Attachment SATA etc.

Storage may take the form of computer readable media such as hard drives solid state drives optical media memory cards flash drives etc. Computing device may be able to read and write from storage using an appropriate port on computing device . In some embodiments storage may be physically housed along with computing device in an integrated body case or housing. In some embodiments storage may be external to computing device and coupled to computing device through an appropriate port on computing device . In some embodiments storage may also host knowledge base .

In general knowledge bases may include content associated with various subject items the linkages between subject items and one or more parameters that control the operation of modules implementing a teaching algorithm that presents content to users. In some embodiments portions of knowledge bases may also be present on storage media or non volatile memory on computing device . In some embodiments knowledge bases or databases associated with knowledge bases may store user profiles which may include understanding levels linkage strengths time decay parameters item accession time stamps subject preferences and or other teaching parameters associated with one or more users. User profiles may be used by modules implementing the teaching algorithm to present appropriate content.

Computing device may use a liquid crystal display to display content and receive user feedback using buttons and on computing device . Although exemplary computing device has been shown with user input buttons and it should be noted that various other input schemes and user interfaces may be used. In some embodiments a physical or virtual on screen keyboard may be provided a touch screen interface may be used to receive user input and or computing device may respond to voice commands received by the user.

In some embodiments modules implementing a teaching algorithm on computing device may receive user input in response to questions posed to the user or input solicited from the user. In some embodiments an answer explanation stage may be presented after questions are posed to the user and based at least in part on user input.

For example a student may be presented with questions relating to a subject item and may be asked to respond by pressing button to indicate interest in the question or by pressing button to indicate disinterest which may cause another lower priority question to be displayed instead. If the student indicates interest by pressing button the answer explanation content relevant to the displayed question may be presented. If a student continues to reject questions associated with lower priority subject items as uninteresting then in some embodiments the system may eventually present answer explanation content related to the lowest priority subject item after all other candidate subject items have been rejected. Candidate subject items may be used to describe those subject items whose content may potentially be presented next to a user in a method for facilitating knowledge dissemination and promoting knowledge acquisition.

After the answer explanation content of the subject item is presented an overall comprehension input may be indicated by the user for example by pressing button and or button . In some embodiments the system may automatically determine a comprehension input based on user responses to content related questions. Typically a user s comprehension input at a moment in time is used to update an understanding level. In some embodiments the understanding level for a specific user at a point in time may be computed as a function of the user s comprehension input. The understanding level may vary over time between user comprehension inputs depending on the user s memory and ability to retain understanding of presented concepts with the passage of time. Accordingly in some embodiments user specific understanding levels when recomputed at various points in time may take on different values reflecting changes to the user s memory and understanding at those points in time. In some embodiments a time variation modification parameter such as an understanding decay time parameter may modify how user specific understanding levels vary with time. The user s comprehension input upon presentation of a subject item may be viewed as the selection of a point X Y in a space spanned by two axes representing a level of interest in the question X axis and a degree of comprehension of the answer explanation Y axis .

In some embodiments system may include knowledge bases on storage resident on and or coupled to a computing platform such as knowledge base on cloud and or knowledge base on server farm . In one embodiment a large number of subject items may be accessed by computing device from knowledge bases and or . For example computing device may download and locally cache those subject items of immediate interest to the user and or those that are likely to be accessed by the user because of their linkages to subject items previously accessed by the user in a recent prior time period from knowledge bases and or . In some embodiments a user profile may also influence the downloading of content related to subject items likely to be of interest to the user.

In some embodiments computing platforms such as server farm and or cloud may include a large number of servers with sufficient bandwidth and storage to support the hosting of large knowledge bases and respectively. In one embodiment users may be permitted to upload new content or annotate content pertaining to subject items to knowledge bases and or . In some embodiments other users may be able to access the new or annotated content based in part on policies of the content provider and or access criteria set by author of the new or annotated content.

The running of applications or the provision of services on networked reliable highly available and scalable software and hardware infrastructures is termed cloud computing . Cloud facilitates the provision of services to support modules implementing the teaching application on computing device using cloud computing. For example access to and dissemination of content from knowledge base may be supported by cloud . Algorithms to update teaching parameters taking into account data aggregated from multiple users may also be supported by cloud . Cloud computing may involve public clouds which provide on demand access to high performance computing capabilities over the Internet. Amazon EC2 Terremark Rackspace and Savvis are examples of publicly available clouds. In some instances cloud may be realized by an organization using virtualization to convert one or more private data centers into private clouds . Cloud refers to both public and private clouds. Clouds may use virtualization and or sophisticated systems management solutions to provide a flexible fault tolerant and highly available view of underlying resources so that dedicated hardware resources can be dynamically shared across several users instead of being assigned individually.

In general cloud may be set up as virtualized or physical compute clusters to facilitate access to computing resources over the Internet through Web browser based or client side applications. Cloud computing resources and services such as the interaction with knowledge base may be facilitated through the use of Application Programming Interfaces APIs and or self service portals such as websites accessed using a web browser on computing device . In one embodiment modules running a knowledge dissemination and acquisition application on computing device may include a local client side application to access and interact with a computing platform based application such as a cloud based or server farm based application that provides and disseminates content stored in knowledge base and or provides back end processing needed to update teaching parameters taking into account aggregate data gathered from multiple users. In some embodiments the results of computations performed on the computing platform such as on cloud based or server farm based applications may be displayed on computing device . In general an application implementing a method to facilitate knowledge dissemination and promoting knowledge acquisition may be distributed between one or more of computing device and a variety of computing platforms such as cloud and or server farm using one or more knowledge bases .

In some embodiments knowledge base may include one or more databases of subject items and each subject item may be associated with a unique identifier UID . These database s may also include a variety of other fields or tags associated with a subject item which explicitly or implicitly detail a subject item s relationship with other subject items. In some embodiments the content associated with each subject item may include two fields 1 a question prompt title topic and or partially completed concept and 2 an answer explanation and or fully completed concept. In some embodiments the answer explanation and or concept may include follow up questions or use other methods to solicit input from the user to aid and or gauge understanding of the material being presented. The content fields may take on a variety of formats including but not limited to strings of characters encoded in a common digital representation e.g. ASCII or UTF 8 bitmap or vector image representations hypertext markup language metadata file pointers compressed or uncompressed data audio representations video representations interactive components or interpreted or compiled executable codes.

In some embodiments knowledge base may also include a database of links between subject items. As shown in subject item may be associated with three different types of links. Lateral link associates related subject item with other items of similar difficulty complexity and or scope such as items and while advanced link associates subject item with a more advanced item such as item and basic link associates subject item to a more basic subject item such as subject item . Because subject item is a more advanced item than subject advanced link may indicate that understanding of subject item is a prerequisite or may aid in the understanding of subject item . Similarly subject item may aid in the understanding of subject item . Links may be assumed to be symmetric so that if subject item is linked as a basic subject item to subject item then subject item is linked as an advanced subject item to as well and if subject item is linked laterally to subject item then subject item is linked laterally to subject item as well.

In one embodiment links are stored by associating each item with a list of UID s of linked subject items categorized by link type advanced lateral or basic . In other embodiments compression methods that take advantage of the particular structure of a specific knowledge base may be used to save space and make searching and traversing the elements faster. For example a cluster of subject items which are densely interlinked by lateral connections may be labeled with a group tag identifying the cluster. Then any two ideas with the same group tag may be implicitly assumed to be linked with a lateral connection.

Knowledge base may also include various parameters used by modules implementing a teaching or knowledge dissemination acquisition algorithm for example interest and understanding levels on a per item and or per link basis one or more time variation modification parameters for example decay time constants on a per subject item and or per link basis which may provide an individualized indication of the rate at which a user s understanding and or interest levels are predicted to vary with time a history of times the user has previously accessed one or more subject items a history of previous user inputs etc. In some embodiments parameters associated with subject items may be distributed and or averaged over related subject items to derive coarser grained parameters associated with collections of subject items. A collection of parameters associated with a particular user is termed a user profile.

In some embodiments knowledge bases may be used by multiple users. In one instance computing device may be operated by one user at a time with switching between users performed using a login logout procedure. In another instance system computing device and or knowledge bases may be used accessed by multiple users simultaneously. In some embodiments system may store and or use multiple user profiles in from knowledge base .

In some embodiments parameters used by system and stored in knowledge bases and the updating thereof could be influenced by parameters and or inputs associated with other users. For example in some embodiments collective rankings could be operative in a community learning environment so that subject items that other users have comprehended and found interesting would rise in rank and be preferentially presented to a user while less comprehensible and or disliked items would be hidden. In some embodiments computing device may display a user s progress relative to other users in the form of detailed distributions rankings or points which may be used to stimulate competition or to provide a basis for external incentives and rewards.

Further more complex methods of assembling the knowledge base are possible and envisaged. For example subject items may be tailored to individual devices and or users and the accessibility of subject items may vary with users. In some embodiments knowledge base may be updated asynchronously and or incrementally using continuing contributions from disparate users. Further various well known database representations may also be used to more efficiently index store access and modify content linkages and parameters of knowledge base .

In some embodiments users can also collaboratively edit ideas via a wiki interface which permits users to add edit or delete elements to from a global database subject to version tracking and later revision by other users. Further in other embodiments computing devices enabled with Internet connectivity can automatically update themselves to stay current. News stories and journal articles or new knowledge bases written by publishing companies or Internet users can be downloaded automatically. In some embodiments items with connectivity information but without content stubs can be downloaded regularly to a student s teaching device. Then when a user reaches a point where the stubs would be presented based on the material the user understands the device can prompt the user for further downloading or purchase of the additional material thereby keeping the user informed of available knowledge without unduly consuming memory or using network bandwidth.

A wide range of subjects can be translated into a knowledge base format. For example a knowledge base could contain musical compositions to study with basic tunes that build up to more advanced ones. In some instances for more complex subjects the system may be used as a teaching aid in conjunction with a live teacher. For example a music teacher could store a collection of piano exercises in knowledge base . After a student has played several pieces the teachers assessment of the student s performance may be input into knowledge base and the system may output the next piece for the student to perform based on the assessment. In some embodiments computing device may be used to request a live teacher when the system flags one or more subject items as particularly problematic for a student.

In some embodiments exemplary relevance module may create a candidate list comprising a list of candidate subject items relevant to a user s learning state and compute for each subject item on the candidate list one or more priority values. Inclusion of a subject item on the candidate list and the specific value of priority assigned may be dependent on values of various parameters stored in knowledge base such as but not limited to user understanding values and linkage strengths associated with the subject items and linked subject items at that point in time. In general various data structures other than lists may be used to store candidate subject items as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art.

In some embodiments exemplary relevance module may decide whether or not to add a subject item i to its candidate list by applying one or more criteria based on the student s understanding of the subject item and related subject items. For example one criterion may involve only adding subject item i to the candidate list if its understanding value Ufalls below a fixed threshold. An additional criterion to add subject item i to the candidate list may be based on a weighted average understanding of all basic subject items linked to subject item i being above some understanding threshold and or a weighted average understanding of all advanced subject items linked to subject item i being below some understanding threshold. In some embodiments the weights in the weighted average are the linkage strengths C between subject items i and j so that a basic subject item j that was more strongly linked to the current candidate subject item i would have more influence on whether or not the current candidate subject item i was ultimately presented to the user.

In some embodiments relevance module may compute all linkage strengths Cand understanding levels Ustored in knowledge base that are involved in the computation of candidate subject item inclusion criteria and candidate subject item priority values using a model of how student interest and understanding are expected to change over time. Such a model may be based on the past history of user inputs and variable values the time elapsed since the last user input associated with one or more items and or time variation modification parameters. For example along with understanding U knowledge base may store a time variation modification parameter termed an understanding decay time parameter providing an indication of the rate of which the understanding level of subject item i U is expected to deteriorate over time. The understanding decay time may be updated each time positive or negative comprehension of subject item i is input by the user. Higher values are often associated with more persistent memories. In another example along with linkage strength C knowledge base may store a time variation modification parameter termed a linkage perturbation decay time providing an indication of the rate at which perturbations to Care predicted to diminish over time. The linkage perturbation decay time may be updated each time positive or negative interest in item i and or item j is input by the user. Higher values are associated with repeated and consistent interest or disinterest in the linkage between two items. Accordingly as described above in some embodiments relevance module may use time variation modification parameters for example decay times to compute values of Uand C used in computing weighted averages of understanding values which are part of criteria for determining candidacy and computing priority values.

In some embodiments exemplary relevance module may determine for a candidate subject item i an associated priority value P. The priority value Pmay be computed as a function of the understanding value Ustored in knowledge base computed at the current time. Other learning variables stored in knowledge base such as a bias parameter or a random jitter value J may further modify the priority value P. In some embodiments relevance module may pass the UIDs associated with one or more high priority candidate subject items to user interaction module .

In some embodiments user interaction module may retrieve content associated with the UIDs related to one or more items on the candidate list and determine user interest in the items which may be presented either sequentially e.g. one at a time or simultaneously e.g. in a list format . In some embodiments based on the current and or previous user interest inputs linkage strength update module may then update one or more linkage strengths Cbetween the currently presented candidate subject items i and related subject items j as well as one or more time variation modification parameters for example linkage perturbation decay parameter which affects how linkage strength Cis assumed to change with time. In some embodiments user interest inputs may be time stamped to record the time of input and to aid in the estimation of Cat later points in time.

Once the user has indicated interest in a subject item i on the candidate list the user interaction module retrieves the answer explanation content pertaining to the subject item from knowledge base presents it to the user and determines the degree to which the user comprehends the answer explanation. This assessment can be made through self evaluation i.e. direct input or via a programmatic comparison between one or more user inputs and a pre stored template e.g. multiple choice questions interactive tasks or via a more complex programmatic evaluation e.g. handwriting recognition speech processing etc. In some embodiments based on the current and or previous comprehension inputs item understanding update module may then update the understanding level Uof the currently presented candidate subject item i as well as one or more time variation modification parameters for example a time decay parameter which affects how understanding level Uis expected to change with time. In some embodiments comprehension inputs may be time stamped to record the time of input and to aid in the estimation of Uat later points in time

In some embodiments relevance module may use the updated values of various parameters stored in knowledge base as updated by linkage strength update module and item understanding update module to recreate a candidate list of subject items and associated priority values that may then be used by user interaction module for subsequent presentation to the user so that the algorithm may iterate in a cyclic manner.

Further exemplary architecture may also include additional modules that may interact with knowledge base and influence the operation of modules and .

For example in some embodiments a testing module not shown may support evaluation modalities separate from user interaction module for example standard multiple choice exams or interactive games that evaluate user knowledge of subject items stored within knowledge base . In some embodiments results obtained via the testing module may be used to set or update initial understanding values and linkage strengths provide validation for understanding values in or calibrate or reset parameters in knowledge base .

In some embodiments a statistics and analytics module not shown may support the computation visualization and tracking of overall indicators of user performance for example the individual and aggregate rates at which one or more users learn new subject items. In some embodiments the module could be used to perform detailed per item analyses for example plotting the collective or individual progress of users through the knowledge base over time with distributions of understanding values computed for each subject item. In some embodiments coarse estimations of user characteristics could be computed by projecting the teaching parameter data into a reduced dimensional space clustering of teaching parameters associated with multiple users could be performed in order to classify users into discrete groupings and correlations could be extracted to identify variables that influence user comprehension and interest. In some embodiments correlations could be extracted in conjunction with A B testing performed over a set of multiple users for example a variant form of a subject item could be presented to a subset of users and the net effect on the average degree of user comprehension associated with that item could be evaluated. For example A B testing might indicate that subject items with brighter visual elements are more comprehensible to primary school students this information could be used to further refine the content of the knowledge base.

In some embodiments a social module not shown may support communications based on and influenced by the progress of users in learning items from knowledge base . For example through the social module users could add annotations or comments to the subject items as they learned them. They could also send forward and hold messages or real time communications to each other or external teachers e.g. in text audio or video format. The communications could be linked to particular subject items or unrestricted.

For ease of explanation in outlining the operation of exemplary method it is assumed that one or more subject items have already been presented. Accordingly a new candidate list containing candidate subject items to be presented may now be created by method for example by using exemplary relevance module to perform appropriate steps. If method is being run for the first time the subject items to present first may be specified based upon preset values in knowledge base .

In some embodiments exemplary relevance module may create a new candidate list in three stages. In the first stage which may be carried out by step values of relevant teaching parameters such as understanding levels and linkage strengths at the current time may be computed. In the second stage which may be carried out in step candidacy may be determined using criteria based on the newly computed teaching parameters the candidacy determining criteria may be applied to multiple subject items in order to populate the candidate list with candidate subject items. In the third stage which may be carried out by step priority values for the candidate subject items may be computed based on the newly computed teaching parameters.

In step understanding levels and linkage strengths associated with subject items being considered for inclusion on a candidate list may be computed using equations 1 and 2 exp 1 1 1 exp 2 where for a subject item i Urepresents an understanding level and represents an understanding time decay parameter and for a pair of subject items i and j Crepresents a linkage strength and represents a linkage perturbation time decay parameter. Each item contains a time stamp t specifying when Uwas last updated which may correspond to the last time that a comprehension input was provided for subject item i likewise each link may include a field for a time stamp t specifying when Cwas last updated which may correspond to the last time that an interest input was provided for subject item i or j . When step is being executed the difference between the current time and the time stamp t is computed to produce variable t which is then used in computing U similarly the difference between the current time and the time stamp t is computed to produce variable t which is then used in computing C. While understanding levels and linkage strengths are formulated to vary exponentially as a function of time in accordance with a single characteristic time constant in method in other embodiments alternate models of how understanding levels and linkage strengths vary with time may be formulated using functional forms containing one or more time variation modification parameters which may be varied in modules and .

Next in step a candidate list ordered by priority values may be constructed which determines the preferred order of presentation of subject items with linkages to subject item i. In some embodiments subject items S with linkages to subject item i may be added to the candidate list if 

 ii the weighted average understanding level of subject items linked with a basic link to subject item S is above U as shown below in equation 3 

 iii the weighted average understanding level of subject items linked with an advanced link to subject item S is below U as shown below in equation 4 

The criteria above may result in the addition of subject items to the candidate list that focus student attention in the zone between known basic subject items and unknown advanced subject items where learning is most profitable.

Other variations in how the candidate list is constructed are possible and envisaged. For example in some embodiments thresholds for inclusion onto the candidate list can be made fuzzy and the threshold values can be made to vary over time. In some embodiments weighted averages may be computed using alternate functions e.g. weights can be applied in a nonlinear fashion. In some embodiments items not directly connected to the current item may also be considered for inclusion onto the candidate list.

Returning to following construction of the candidate list in step in some embodiments method may determine one or more priority values for each subject item S that is selected for inclusion in the candidate list. One formula for computing a priority value Pis shown below in bias mapping function 5 

In equation 5 the values Jfor selected candidate subject items S are jitter parameters which are pseudorandom floating point values uniformly distributed between 0 and a maximum jitter value denoted by J. In some embodiments jitter values Jfor all subject items S may be computed and fixed at the start of each user session with one random value assigned to each subject item S. In some embodiments the maximum jitter value Jmay be chosen as a small value relative to the maximum priority value. For example for priority values P where 0 P 1 the maximum jitter value may be set to approximately 0.01. The addition of random jitter to the priority values may have the effect of shuffling subject items Pwith similar priority so that the order in which they appear varies between sessions.

Other variations in how the priority values are calculated are possible and envisaged. In some embodiments the priority values of a given subject item may be made dependent on one or more of current and or previous understanding priority and or linkage values. In some embodiments iterative or direct procedures may be used to compute values that are self consistent over the entire network. In some embodiments bias mapping functions more complex than equation 5 may be used. In some embodiments the bias mapping function may contain parameters that may differ between items and or be directly modifiable by the user via a separate interface. In some embodiments random jitter values may take on a more complex distribution and may be combined with priority values in a non additive manner. In some embodiments error uncertainty estimates may be computed propagated and incorporated into the priority values and fuzzy ranking strategies may be used that take into account these uncertainty estimates.

Returning to after step method moves to step . In some embodiments steps may form part of exemplary user interaction module . In step content associated with subject items on the candidate list may be displayed to the user. For example content may be loaded from one or more knowledge bases and one or more question portions of the content may be displayed to the user.

In some embodiments each subject item on the candidate list may be associated with a priority value and the question with the highest priority value may be displayed to the user. In some embodiments several questions on the candidate list may be displayed simultaneously ranked in decreasing order of priority value. In some embodiments multiple priority values may be associated with each subject item to form a multidimensional vector P . . . P and user specified factors may be used to select a vector component P a weighted sum of vector components or an arbitrary function of vector components which permits the ranking and display of questions. In some embodiments other factors may affect the ranking and display of questions for example questions which have not been previously presented to the user may be ranked lower than questions that have been presented at least once before thereby favoring the consolidation of existing user knowledge prior to the presentation acquisition of new knowledge.

In some embodiments at step if user input is not received with some predetermined interval of time Yes in step algorithm may reiterate through steps and to recalculate understanding linkage and priority values as time elapses. Accordingly subject items presented to the user for selection may change with time even without user input in response to expected and predicted changes in memories and associations between subject items as time elapses. In some embodiments the recalculation process may use equations 1 2 and 5 to compute more timely values of the above parameters.

If user input is received within the predetermined time interval No in step then in step the user may express positive or negative interest in the subject item presented. For example the user may express interest in a candidate subject item by selecting it for further viewing and learning or express disinterest in a subject item by skipping over it. In some embodiments the user may be presented with subject item question content sequentially in order of priority value ranking for rejection or acceptance. For example the user may express interest or disinterest by pressing buttons or on computing device .

In step if the user expresses disinterest No in step then the algorithm proceeds to step where linkage strength and associated time variation modification parameters e.g. linkage perturbation decay parameters may be updated. On the other hand if the user expresses interest in the subject item presented Yes in step then in step the answer portion of the content associated with the subject item may be presented. In some embodiments steps and may be implemented using exemplary linkage strength update module .

In one embodiment user interest may be measured while allowing the student free form exploration of the knowledge base. Instead of introducing questions sequentially one or more questions from the candidate list may be displayed simultaneously. The user may then select a question from the list to answer. The user s selection may be taken to indicate positive interest in the subject item associated with the selected question negative interest in the subject items associated with the not selected questions or both. In general interest and comprehension inputs may vary discretely over a greater range of values or may vary continuously. The exemplary binary Yes No inputs described are for explanatory purposes only and various other schemes for measuring user interest and comprehension are possible and envisaged as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. In some embodiments user interest and or comprehension may also be measured and input over a greater number of dimensions forming for example the multidimensional vector I . . . I and or c . . . c. For example user interest and or comprehension may be obtained for different content portions associated with a subject item or user interest and or comprehension may be categorized and interest and understanding values may be obtained for the various individual categories.

In some embodiments if there are no items of interest to the user on the candidate list or if the candidate list is empty a random subject item chosen from among candidate subject items j connected to current subject item i may be selected for presentation. When the user indicates disinterest in step then the algorithm may iterate through steps and until a non empty candidate list with an item of interest to the user is available.

In step linkage strength and linkage perturbation decay parameters are updated in response to interest input provided relevant to a subject item i and the time stamp t associated with links between associated items is set to the time the update was performed. For instance if the student is not interested No in step then in step the linkage strength Cbetween the subject item i and the immediately preceding presented subject item j may be set to zero or a sufficiently low value and the linkage perturbation decay time between subject items i and j may be increased. In some embodiments may be increased based on equation 6 below new old 1 6 where is a multiplicative factor that is related to the persistence of user interest after repeated exposure to a question. Higher values cause the algorithm to wait longer before attempting to reevaluate student interest.

Next in step the candidate subject item j in which the user has indicated disinterest may be removed from the candidate list and the algorithm may proceed to step to generate update the candidate list and begin another iteration through steps and .

Conversely if the student is interested in the item Yes in step then in step the linkage perturbation decay time between subject items i and j may be reset based on equation 7 below new original 7 

Thus in step if a student is not interested in a subject item i the linkage strength Cbetween subject item i and the immediately preceding subject item j idea may be diminished temporarily. The linkage strength may subsequently gradually increase over time but repeated user disinterest causes the increase in linkage strength value to take longer and longer. Equations 6 and 7 correspond to negative selection update rules where repeated disinterest weakens links between items.

In some embodiments the update rules may be modified so that positive interest causes the linkage strength between subject item i and the immediately preceding subject item j idea to be increased temporarily. Under these rules the interest level decreases back to one over time but repeated interest causes this to take longer and longer to happen. These modified conditions correspond to positive selection update rules where repeated interest strengthens links between items.

In some embodiments the rules for modifying time variation modification parameters such as understanding and or linkage perturbation decay times may be formulated in a manner analogous to some spaced repetition models which are memorization systems based on the empirical observation that to optimally fix an item in memory the item should be displayed and recalled at intervals of ever increasing duration. An example of the spaced repetition model is the Pimsleur Language Learning System in which items are introduced at intervals of 5 seconds 25 seconds 2 minutes 10 minutes etc. on to a maximum interval of 2 years. The spaced repetition model assumes that increased viewing and recall of an item at appropriate intervals is associated with a slower rate of decay in the subsequent memory trace.

Concepts pertaining to the spaced repetition model may be understood from the following example. For example in a conventional flashcard based scheme to promote recollection termed Leitner s method flashcards may be imprinted with questions on one side and answers to questions on the other. All of the flashcards are initially placed together in the lowest group which may be called Group 0 . Cards may be moved to higher groups which may be called Group 1 Group 2 etc. for example if they are recalled correctly by the user or demoted to lower groups if they are not recalled correctly. The frequency of review is highest for cards in the lowest group and the lowest for cards in the highest group. Flashcards that were not recalled correctly by the user may be demoted to a lower group until they reach Group 0 where they are reviewed with increasing frequency. In this way the user s attention is focused on the cards that are the most troublesome to retain in memory. In general however conventional schemes implementing spaced repetition models are focused on memory retention and fail to account for associations and dependencies between subject items in a knowledge base.

In some embodiments following the reset of linkage perturbation decay time in step the algorithm proceeds to step . In step content associated with the answer field for subject item i in knowledge base may be displayed to the user.

In step the algorithm determines the user s comprehension of the content associated with the answer field of subject item i. In some embodiments this determination is made by having the student directly input the extent to which content associated with the answer field was comprehended in some embodiments by pressing buttons or on computing device . In some embodiments this determination may be made via a more extended programmatic comparison between one or more user inputs and a pre stored template e.g. multiple choice questions or via a more complex programmatic evaluation e.g. handwriting recognition speech processing etc.

Following determination of user comprehension in user interaction module for instance by step the understanding level Uand understanding decay time parameter are updated in response to the comprehension input provided for subject item i and the time stamp t associated with subject item i may then be set to the time the update was performed.

If the algorithm determines that the user has comprehended the content associated with subject item i Yes in step then in step the understanding level of the user Ufor subject item i may be increased or set to 1 and the decay time associated with subject item i may be increased so that a longer period will elapse before subject item i is presented again to the user. In some embodiments the decay time associated with subject item i may be increased based on equation 8 below new old 1 8 where is a multiplicative factor related to the persistence of student understanding after repeated exposure to an answer. Higher values cause the algorithm to wait longer before attempting to reinforce student understanding. In some embodiments may be a multiplicative factor for a spaced repetition model.

In the event that content related to subject item i has not been comprehended No in step the algorithm proceeds to step and the decay time associated with subject item i may be decreased so that the time period before subject item i is presented again to the user is shortened. In some embodiments the decay time associated with subject item i may be decreased based on equation 9 below new original 9 

In some embodiments steps and may form part of exemplary subject item understanding update module . After steps or are complete algorithm may return to step to begin another iteration.

In the third exposure the user indicates negative comprehension shown by X in of the answer causing the understanding value Uto drop below U. Consequently decay time is shortened and lower than . Accordingly subject item i may be presented more frequently if at least the time interval Thas elapsed since the last time subject item i was presented. Even after the student indicates positive comprehension subsequently decay time remains lower than and subject item i may be presented more frequently to reinforce understanding. In some embodiments a candidate subject item becomes eligible for presentation when its understanding level falls below U. If the user repeatedly indicates comprehension then the item may be presented less and less frequently consistent with spaced repetition principles.

In some embodiments the retention model may assume that mere exposure to an item even without comprehension creates a transient period of heightened understanding. During this brief period more advanced items that contain the current item as a prerequisite may be presented allowing user a sneak peek at advanced topics based on an optimistic assessment of the student s current knowledge. shows an example where the understanding value Umay be set to 1 even when the user indicates negative comprehension which may permit a sneak peek at advanced topics.

In algorithm understanding levels and linkage strengths are modeled as variables which vary over time in a manner described by an exponential function with a characteristic time variation modification parameter which is varied by a multiplicative factor or reset when user inputs of interest and comprehension are provided. In some embodiments more complex rules can be used to update one or more parameters associated with the same or alternate models of how understanding levels and linkage strengths vary with time. For example in some embodiments a preset array of values could contain data on how memory decays as a function of elapsed time and sequential re exposure to information. Such a predefined array could be used to compute changes to time variation modification parameters in response to user inputs. In some embodiments the time variation modification parameter adjustment function may be nonlocal in time so that it depends on some or all of the history of previous user inputs. In some embodiments the time variation modification parameter adjustment function may be nonlocal in scope so that it is affected by parameters associated with other subject items in addition to the currently selected subject item.

In some embodiments understanding levels and linkage strengths may be updated using a model based at least in part on the time elapsed since the last update and zero or more time variation modification parameters such as linkage perturbation decay time and decay time . As described above is varied in equations 6 and 7 above and is varied as described below in equations 8 and 9 . In some embodiments the time variation modification parameters may be based on spacing intervals from a spaced repetition model which may arise from models similar to Leitner s method or through the use of neural network based models. In some embodiments no time variation modification parameters are included and understanding levels and linkage strengths vary with time in a way unmodified by external parameters.

In algorithm interest inputs only influence teaching parameters insofar as they directly vary linkage strengths and associated time variation modification parameters. Alternate methods by which interest inputs can influence teaching parameters are possible and envisaged. For example in some embodiments interest levels may be input stored and allowed to decay on a per item basis instead of a per link basis using a spaced repetition model. In some embodiments links between two items with high per item interest levels may then be specially strengthened. In some embodiments per item interest levels may also be used to directly alter priority levels e.g. by modifying bias values.

In algorithm user specific parameters which are associated with a particular user and stored in knowledge base are termed a user profile and may encompass subject item understanding levels linkage strengths time variation modification parameters and other parameters. As individual users interact with exemplary system and algorithm operates user profiles may evolve to reflect the users individual abilities interests and knowledge more closely. It is expected that a judicious selection of initial parameters may permit quicker convergence to a user s learning state.

In some embodiments user profiles may have initial values set by user inputs by the results of a testing procedure or by statistical or normal values for an expected class of users. For example if the users are students understanding values and linkage strengths may be based on the material that the student may be expected to know based on the student s grade level. For example a middle school student might be expected to know arithmetic and algebra but not advanced geometry or calculus. Thus understanding level values of appropriate algebra and arithmetic related subject items could be initially set to some high value e.g. 1 and understanding values for advanced subject items such as calculus could be initially set to a low value e.g. 0 . In some embodiments the initial user profiles associated with a group or class may be set by averaging previously determined user profiles over an ensemble of students of similar education using classifications that can vary from the coarse e.g. grade level to the fine grained e.g. groupings obtained algorithmically using a k means clustering scheme.

In some embodiments data stored or input on computing device may be synchronized or uploaded to server farm and or cloud to permit individual user profiles to influence and be influenced by other user profiles. For example in some embodiments subject items that have not yet been presented to the user may have some teaching parameters set from values derived from the prior and or current aggregate experience of other students. In some embodiments once a user starts learning specific subject items algorithm will update the user s profile with values that more closely track the user s own interests abilities and knowledge as they begin to diverge from preset norms and or statistically derived profiles and values.

Further linkage strengths between subject items are indicated by the pattern of the lines connecting subject items so that for a pair of subject items i and j 

In the predicted understanding of subject item may have diminished far enough that it becomes eligible to be presented again. After the presentation of subject item the priority value associated with subject item is higher than that of any other subject item linked to subject item therefore subject item may be presented to the student again. shows the final result where items and are now well understood.

In the understanding of subject item may qualify subject items and for inclusion on the candidate list. Note that subject item which may not have been previously presented is now eligible for presentation. The scenario shown in is illustrative of an instance when a review of basic subject items may open up new subject items for learning. For example a user who questioned the need for the zero element and commutator relations and expressed appropriate interest may be introduced to the ideas of group theory.

As shown in the linkage strength of link may be restored over time but if the student repeatedly expresses disinterest when subject item is presented after the viewing of subject item then the time period over which link may be restored will keep increasing with each additional rejection. illustrates the situation where a rejected subject item may be selected for presentation again in anticipation that user interest may shift with time while respecting strongly held and repeatedly expressed disinterests.

Further as shown in in some embodiments content associated with a subject item may be displayed in pane and a user may be able to input the degree of comprehension using the grayscale shaded touchbar element .

In other embodiments as shown in the top three presentable subject items may be displayed with higher priority questions scaled to a larger size. By clicking and or touching one of the displayed subject items e.g. the user may be able to indicate interest in the selected subject item and disinterest in the other subject items.

In some embodiments computing device may display output from a statistics and analytics module that assesses a student s understanding of a particular item a group of items or an entire knowledge base. In one embodiment a binary indicator may be used where indicator s on exemplary computing device may glow red if user understanding of a subject item is low and more study is needed and or the indicator s may glow green otherwise. In some embodiments a more detailed interface could visualize variations in teaching parameters associated with individual subject items using color coding for example using the exemplary browser shown in

In some embodiments computer game may gauge the user s attention level and maintain an optimal attention level not too sleepy or too frenetic. In some embodiments the user s attention and or degree of comprehension may be gauged by assessing the speed at which questions are answered in response teaching parameters might be varied and in addition steps might be taken to maintain the user s attention e.g. by varying the pace of the game modifying the background sounds or music and or including more or fewer interactive components. Subtle cues e.g. changes in respiration physiological parameters or brain activity could modify the operation of a system for knowledge dissemination and acquisition so that the system could be optimally responsive to the user thereby facilitating user engagement for long periods.

It should be noted that the examples provided above are for explanatory purposes only and many other variations of disclosed embodiments are possible and envisaged. For example a variety of methods and or models may be used to measure student interest and degree of comprehension predict how student understanding and interest changes with time compute the priorities of items and to determine the order in which items are presented tie student interest to changes in linkage strengths and item priority use results of tests and other external evaluation metrics to determine understanding levels priority values etc. permit multiple subject items to be active simultaneously permit user collaboration in adding modifying and removing content from the knowledge base etc. In some embodiments the user interface may be extended to enable more detailed control over program parameters and enhanced visualization of knowledge base content.

Other embodiments of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of one or more embodiments of the invention disclosed herein. It is intended that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the invention being indicated by the following claims.

