---

title: Broadband artificial dielectric with dynamically optical control
abstract: A material is provided for switching dielectric constant between distinct first and second values responsive to electromagnetic radiation having a specified energy. The material includes a medium transparent to the radiation and a plurality of particulates. Each particulate has a dipole that assumes one of distinct first and second parameters that correspond to the first and second values. The particulates are suspended within the medium. The parameters are either dipole span or charge strength. The dipole of each particulate sets to the first parameter by default and sets to the second parameter in response to the radiation. The particulates can be composed from undoped semi-insulating gallium arsenide. The medium can be polymethylmethacrylate, for example.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08784704&OS=08784704&RS=08784704
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08784704
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120828
---
The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to synthetically produced dielectric materials. In particular the invention relates to a broadband artificial dielectric that exhibits dynamic controllability by optical stimulus.

Artificial dielectric concepts have been around at least since 1948 and many applications depend on their principles. Although such materials are generally broadband in nature they have unalterable values of dielectric constant. Generally upon formation of the material the dielectric constant cannot be modified.

Conventional dielectric materials yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. Various exemplary embodiments provide a process to control the value of the dielectric constant dynamically using optical and or infrared means. In particular various embodiments provide a material for switching dielectric constant between distinct first and second values. The material is responsive to electromagnetic radiation having a specified energy and thereby does not require electrical interconnects. This control response includes continuous and discontinuous alterations between condition states.

Specifically the material includes a medium transparent to the controlling radiation and a plurality of particulates suspended therein. Each particulate has a dipole that assumes dipole length and charge density values that can be altered by triggering electromagnetic radiation either to shift along a continuum or switch between bi static conditions. The dipole of each particulate sets to the first value by default and triggers to the second value in response to the radiation intensity. Each dipole of the particulates aligns to an electric field induced proximate to the medium. In preferred embodiments the particulates can be composed from undoped semi insulating gallium arsenide. In additional embodiments the medium can be polymethylmethacrylate for example.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

Water HO possesses a high dielectric strength. shows a diagram view of water molecules each having one atom of oxygen and two atoms of hydrogen via covalent bonds. For liquid water the hydrogen atoms maintain an obtuse separation angle of 106 from the nucleus of the oxygen atom .

This asymmetry can be distinguished by a charge plane with the obtuse angle being on the electrically positive side and the reflex angle being on the electrically negative side. This results from the affinity of the oxygen atom to filling its 2 p shell from electrons shared with the hydrogen atoms . The separation in charge across the plane with the positive near the hydrogen atoms and the negative near the oxygen atom form dipole moments. The molecules typically are randomly oriented so the dipole effects naturally cancel out absent an electric field.

In exemplary embodiments an artificial dielectric replaces the molecular dipole with a synthetic dipole usually consisting of a conducting particle. In this case the dipoles do not rotate but instead the charge can reconfigure itself within or on the surface of the conductor. Often the particles are of nano size but can be any size as long as they are much less than the wavelength of the electromagnetic radiation. For example microwave radiation at 1 GHz has a wavelength of 30 cm and exemplary particles can be any size less than 10 cm preferably much smaller such as on the order of hundreds of micrometers. Particulates can be of any desirable shape depending on purpose. For example a sphere can be used that can induce an electric effect permittivity and a magnetic effect permeability . To obtain an electric effect only a disk flat plate or cylinder similar in shape to a wire can be used to suppress electrical currents that would otherwise induce magnetic effects. An article by W. E. Kock Metallic Delay Lenses 27 1 January 1948 at http www.alcatel lucent.com bstj vol27 1948 articles bstj27 1 58.pdf describes an example of fixed artificial dielectrics.

There exist formularies e.g. Kock to describe the behavior of an artificial dielectric. Conventional art describes the behavior of artificial dielectrics for different particle shapes volumetric densities and other relevant parameters. There also exist formularies to describe dielectric mixing creating an altered dielectric strength as a function of that from the individual components. Some of these formularies are based on fundamental physics and others parametric. Thus a binder for composite formulations or laminate structures can include a plurality of materials and with the addition of the dynamically controllable inclusions becomes a new dynamically controllable artificial dielectric.

The inclusions align their controllable dipoles parallel to the electric field right arrow over E and thereby perpendicular to the plates and . In the absence of this field i.e. the plates exhibiting no voltage potential across them the inclusions revert to having no orientation. In the absence of light stimulation the inclusions exhibit a semi insulating state in which the conductivity is small and the region of conductivity has a short span whereas in the presence of that light signal the inclusions exhibit the dipole s more conductive state and where the region of conductivity has a long span . Such alteration in dielectric effect can be greatly augmented so as to serve as a continuous and dynamically controllable dielectric or alternatively as a controllable dielectric switch by aligning the dipoles of the inclusions which the potential across the plates and accomplishes.

Various exemplary embodiments present a process and material product thereof for a producing dynamically controllable artificial dielectric. The material constitutes inclusions contained within a binder. Pulverized undoped semi insulating USI gallium arsenide GaAs semiconductor can be used as the inclusions within a binding material transparent to the controlling light. Alternative semiconductors include gallium phosphide GaP gallium nitride GaN and silicon carbide SiC . Within the context of this disclosure the term transparent for a material denotes effective propagation therethrough and can include optical distortion and photon scatter such as exemplified by the term translucent. The dipole strength and span of the inclusions related to charge and charge separation in eqn. 1 change in response to the electromagnetic radiation which can be microwave infrared visible or ultraviolet light.

The binder can be an organic or inorganic substance provided the binder remains transparent to the electromagnetic radiation at the defined wavelength that controls the artificial dielectric and contains the dispersed inclusions or particulates within a substantially stable matrix . The binder that serves as a medium for the suspension matrix can be in solid gel or liquid form for the inclusions that remain in suspension. Example binders include but are not limited to silica glass SiO magnesium fluoride MgF aluminum oxide AlO polymethylmethacrylate COH e.g. Lucite Plexiglas and Perspex polycarbonate CHO e.g. Lexan Makrolon water HO and glycine amino acid NHCHCOOH .

The controllable artificial dielectric exemplified by the suspension material matrix can be fabricated to be isotropic or anisotropic. This dielectric can be fabricated to be homogeneous or non homogeneous with respect to the electromagnetic radiation. The shape size and volumetric density of the inclusions can be modified according to desired properties. Although primarily an electric response material long inclusions i.e. having axial or planar aspect ratios can quench magnetic response while substantially spherical type inclusions would maximize any magnetic response for example.

Each USI particulate or inclusion between the plates and represents a light controllable volume of charge within the material matrix . From eqn. 2 the electromagnetic radiation modifies the dipole charge qand or the dipole length right arrow over d based on the energy of the controlling radiation expressed as light geometry of the particles dielectric value of the binder and volumetric fill factor.

In the view energy band diagrams shown as spans and are depicted over the top of the USI inclusions . The short span represents a dark or near dark band value of free charge that is very short or infinitesimal. As the sample is illuminated charge accumulates from the center of the inclusions which then lengthen and strengthen the dipole corresponding to the long span . This influences the effective dielectric strength of the material . The selectable shift from short to long energy bands enables continuous variability of the dielectric response.

The inclusions are shown in an array to have m rows and n columns but need not be so ordered in practice. The model capacitors and resistors can be defined such that 

Thus the dielectric s circuit in schematic view can be reduced to a Thevanin equivalent circuit from series capacitance and resistance expressed as 

There are two effects that cause the artificial dielectric to change value first photo doping that changes Rthat in turn changes and second by optically changing the depletion capacitance which affects C. Either mechanism or both can be used to shift the dielectric constant. can be varied effectively from a maximum value 1 that depends on semi insulator material resistivity in a dark environment to some minimum value 1 for high intensity light. Thus the corresponding change in dielectric can range from 

The second mechanism is a reduction of the depletion width within the semiconductor due to an increase in charge near the depletion edge. This effectively changes the dipole length but in the model in view is seen as increasing the value of C. These effects are one in the same and the use of one or the other depends on viewpoint. Which mechanism dominates can be chosen through the volumetric ratio of the particulates within the sample. If the void between the particles are large then the variation in Chas minimal influence for example and the effect primarily results from changes in . If the voids are small i.e. short distances between the inclusions within the matrix then the dielectric change stems from a combination of mechanisms.

A particularly attractive aspect of various exemplary embodiments is that for photo doping the response of the artificial dielectric material does not vary with electric field strength. Thus the matrix has a linear response to the electromagnetic radiation being controlled by the artificial dielectric and so precludes harmonic distortions. A second attractive aspect of these embodiments enables resistance loss to be made very low for high frequencies as illustrated by eqn. 8 . A third attractive aspect involves resonance non dependence with the electromagnetic radiation frequency. In a fourth attractive aspect the mechanisms to control the artificial dielectric also enable control of artificial magnetic response or permeability. This occurs because controlling Renables flow of a dynamically and continuously variable current both in conductivity and current loop size in response to a magnetic field or in other words a magnetic dipole. As previously mentioned whether the material matrix has mainly a dielectric response or mainly a magnetic response or both can be determined by shape of the inclusions .

From theory known in the art of semiconductor physics the control of the charge operates through deep level traps. The deep level traps over standard electron hole pair generation have the benefit of controllability of the absorption rate of the light. Thicker materials might be designed to include fewer traps in the inclusions . However materials without deep level traps can alternatively be used.

Exemplary embodiments depend on constituent parameters such as particulate size and volume density in a way similar to non controllable artificial dielectrics. There is also a dependence of the constituent parameters due to the active nature of the USI inclusions . shows a plot view of the percentage change of capacitance for inclusions on the order of several hundred microns as a function of a capacitance gap size. The abscissa represents gap size in millimeters and the ordinate represents percent capacitance change. The gap size denotes separation distance L between the parallel plates and . An empirical trend curve plots this percent change against gap size for polymethylmethacrylate PMMA diminishing from 65 at about 0.5 mm to 48 at about 3 mm.

Capacitance is proportional to the dielectric strength from eqn. 3 and may be used to determine the dielectric constant at low frequencies. For the curve the probe frequency was 1 MHz and the percentage change was between infrared light with a wavelength of 975 nm and intensities between 0 mW and 200 mW. The data reveal that the dielectric constant changes by up to 66 and not less than 47 in the range evaluated. Optimization of the constituent parameters can further enhance the change in capacitance.

Exemplary embodiments can be used as a dynamically controllable artificial dielectric in applications that require dynamic control of the dielectric strength. The advantage of an artificial dielectric includes properties beyond those of natural materials and can be broadband in nature and thus have minimal dispersive loss. Other embodiments can exhibit narrowband ranges that nonetheless would be broader than a low loss high Q resonance material.

Dynamically controllable artificial dielectrics can be used in bulk form towards components that are based on Fermat s principle in which light is controlled to minimize the optical path through the material and in accordance to a prescribed and controllable index of refraction. Thus the path can be changed in a dynamic and controllable way. The inclusions in artificial dielectrics are generally randomly placed within the suspension matrix . The inclusions can also be disposed in periodic arrangement.

Exemplary embodiments can be used in a metamaterial so as to behave in a controllable manner. Particulates and inclusions in metamaterials are generally disposed in a periodic arrangement. One typical deficiency of metamaterials involves being inherently narrowband in operating range due to the use of a resonant structure to enhance the magnetic response of the material. In exemplary embodiments the formulation and technique enable modifying the electric response. However the magnetic response can also be influenced using non resonant techniques.

Such particulate and binder materials can be envisioned to produce a low cost controllable metamaterial on a large scale. Scrap or surplus USI semiconductors can be utilized for the pulverized material thereby greatly reducing cost for example. The materials can be used in broadband and narrowband dynamically tunable artificial dielectric or metamaterial applications. The material can be used isotropically or anisotropically. The material can be fabricated homogeneously or non homogeneously. The material can have an electric and or magnetic response.

Over the past century and increasingly today the United States armed forces have become dramatically dependant on applications of EM radiation. EM applications are found in communications guidance search and track sensing and others. Metamaterials offer techniques for fabricating materials with properties that extend beyond those found in nature to provide strategists with original solutions to EM problems of present and future interest. Making an EM material controllable in a dynamic way permits applications that might involve cloaking reduced antennae size new kinds of lenses and others.

So far as known a conventional material with a dynamically controllable index of refraction based on the broadband properties of artificial dielectrics does not exist. The advantages and new features for exemplary embodiments include 

1. The material represents a bulk form of an artificial dielectric in which the dielectric constant can be dynamically controlled to change the path of electromagnetic radiation through the material in a controlled way. Such bulk materials are used for optics based on Fermat s principle for example. 2. An advantage of controlling a dielectric response is its broadband response as opposed to tunable synthetic artificial electromagnetic materials that tend to be based on resonance to achieve reasonable magnetic or electric polarizations. 3. A dynamically controllable artificial dielectric possesses an instantaneous broadband nature. 4. The material can be made low cost based on pulverized scrap active materials such as USI GaAs. 5. The material can be low cost due to low cost binders such as a polymer based matrix e.g. PMMA . 6. The material can be used as a dynamically controllable artificial dielectric in which the particulates are arranged in basically a random fashion. 7. The material can be used as a dynamically controllable metamaterial that is broadband so as to arrange the particulates in a substantially periodic fashion. 8. The material can be fabricated to be isotropic or anisotropic in relation to the electromagnetic radiation. 9. The material can be fabricated homogeneous or inhomogeneous in relation to the electromagnetic radiation. 10. The material can be fabricated to have a desirable average overall dielectric strength and also a controllable dielectric strength that is independent of the average dielectric strength. 11. The material response can be made linear to avoid harmonic distortions. 12. The material can be made low loss for high frequency applications. 13. The material dielectric response can change rapidly due to stimulated electron and hole generation as well as stimulated and or spontaneous absorption of electrons and holes. 14. The dielectric of the material can be either varied across a continuum i.e. continuously or else switchable between bi static values.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

