---

title: Multi-channel data driven, real-time anti-money laundering system for electronic payment cards
abstract: Electronic payment card money laundering detection includes receiving real-time payment card transaction data from ingress channels and an egress channels of at least one payment card system through a first API; generating transactional profiles for each of at least payment cards, the ingress channel, the egress channels, and funding sources of the payment cards; in response to receiving transaction data for a current payment card transaction, evaluating the transaction data using a predictive algorithm that compares the transaction data to the transactional profiles to calculate a probabilistic money laundering score for the current transaction; evaluating the probabilistic money laundering score and current transaction data based on a set of rules to generate a suspicious activity report that recommends whether to approve or report the current transaction; and transmitting the suspicious activity report back to the payment card system and transmitting the suspicious activity report to an identified regulatory body.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08751399&OS=08751399&RS=08751399
owner: Wal-mart Stores, Inc.
number: 08751399
owner_city: Bentonville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120715
---
This application claims the benefit of provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 508 533 filed Jul. 15 2011 incorporated herein by reference.

A stored value card refers to monetary value stored on a card not in an externally recorded account while with a prepaid card money is on deposit with an issuer similar to a debit card. That is the term stored value card means the funds and or data are physically stored on the card while with a prepaid card the data is maintained on computers affiliated with the card issuer. Another difference between stored value SV cards and prepaid PP referred to collectively as SV PP or electronic payment cards is that prepaid debit cards are usually issued in the name of individual account holders while stored value cards are usually anonymous.

Prepaid cards are categorized into two broad types open system or open loop and closed system or closed loop. Closed system prepaid cards are typically merchant gift cards. These cards can be purchased for a fixed amount and used only at the merchant that issued the card. They generally do not require customer identification and cannot be redeemed for cash.

Semi closed system prepaid cards are similar to closed system prepaid cards except that cardholders can redeem these cards at multiple locations within a geographic area. These cards are usually issued by a third party and not the merchant themselves. Examples include university and mall cards.

Open system prepaid cards operate on major credit card networks and can be used anywhere including on worldwide ATMs. They usually have the cardholder name. Semi open prepaid cards are similar to open system prepaid cards except that they do not allow for ATM withdrawals.

Open system prepaid cards are compact and offer a convenient way for physical transport of funds. Funds can be added at one location and then withdrawn from another location via ATMs in one or more countries making them popular with money launderers. Closed system cards typically have lower limits and cannot be redeemed for cash and hence may not be as popular a vehicle for money laundering.

Stored value pre paid cards SV PP Cards allow for anonymous loading of monetary value on these cards by Money Launderers at multiple channels or entry points namely web mobile agents and other point of sale mechanisms. Currently all of these channels operate independently and without knowledge of transactional activities on other channels. Current regulations do not require agents and or banks to notify regulators Financial Crimes Enforcement Network FinCEN in the US as well as regulators of other countries when the total value of multiple transactions add up 10 000 or more to a single SV PP card. These cards can be easily and without restrictions be carried across borders.

Stored Value Pre Paid cards SV PP cards allow for multiple channels of disbursements or exit points namely physical point of sale locations web ATM and mobile. Money Launderers can avoid detection by loading multiple smaller value stored value pre paid cards simultaneously on different channels for entry into the system. This practice also known as structuring or smurfing allows the money launderer to avoid detection by having smaller transactions that do not require regulatory oversight.

Money movement from a compromised entry source to a SV PP card to being converted back to cash or cash equivalent is very rapid and convenient. Money Movement between countries is very easy and rapid making recapture of laundered funds more difficult based on the plurality of regulations and jurisdictions that can apply.

The difficulty with prepaid cards is that there is usually no aggregated view available for end to end flow of money through the system like multiple re loads of the same card purchase of multiple cards multiple transactions on the cards for layering the money and withdrawal of funds from the system using one or more channels.

Accordingly it would be desirable to provide an improved method for system for identifying electronic payment card money laundering.

Exemplary embodiments provide methods and systems for detecting electronic payment card money laundering. Aspects of the exemplary embodiments include receiving real time payment card transaction data from ingress channels and an egress channels of at least one payment card system through a first application programming interface API generating transactional profiles for each of at least payment cards the ingress channel the egress channels and funding sources of the payment cards in response to receiving transaction data for a current payment card transaction evaluating the transaction data using a predictive algorithm that compare the transaction data to the transactional profiles to calculate a probabilistic money laundering score for the current transaction evaluating the probabilistic money laundering score and current transaction data based on a set of rules to generate a suspicious activity report that recommends whether to approve or report the current transaction and transmitting the suspicious activity report back to the payment card system and transmitting the suspicious activity report to an identified regulatory body.

The exemplary embodiments relate to methods and systems for detecting electronic payment card money laundering. The following description is presented to enable one of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the invention and is provided in the context of a patent application and its requirements. Various modifications to the exemplary embodiments and the generic principles and features described herein will be readily apparent. The exemplary embodiments are mainly described in terms of particular methods and systems provided in particular implementations. However the methods and systems will operate effectively in other implementations. Phrases such as exemplary embodiment one embodiment and another embodiment may refer to the same or different embodiments. The embodiments will be described with respect to systems and or devices having certain components. However the systems and or devices may include more or less components than those shown and variations in the arrangement and type of the components may be made without departing from the scope of the invention. The exemplary embodiments will also be described in the context of particular methods having certain steps. However the method and system operate effectively for other methods having different and or additional steps and steps in different orders that are not inconsistent with the exemplary embodiments. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features described herein.

The exemplary embodiments provide methods and systems for detecting money laundered funds through electronic payment cards across multi channels. The exemplary embodiment will be explained in terms of an electronic payment card that is intended to include stored value cards and pre paid cards. However in some embodiments electronic payment cards may also include credit and debit cards.

An exemplary system for identifying money laundering allows for real time monitoring of funds moving into and exiting an electronic payment card across multiple channels. This system has the capacity for dynamically updating an Anti Money Laundering monitoring AML system to reflect current AML trends with a the use of real time feedback events that notify the AML system of known money laundering behavior and b self learning money laundering prediction algorithms that use this real time feedback to modify the algorithms to account for current patterns in money laundering behavior.

This AML system has the capability of tracking fund movements to both other electronic payment cards and other exit channels. The system has the ability to use every transaction to build profiles of users payment cards ingress and egress channels and funding sources across multiple dimensions. The system has the ability to evaluate every transaction in a payments system in real time using internal and external data to predict money laundering risk with a dynamic rules engine and or predictive models to recommend a decision to approve or file a suspicious activity report SAR for the card holder.

The AML system relies on transactional channel funding source funding exit characteristics as well as external data sources to evaluate probability of money laundering in real time. The AML system tracks money through each point of transfer through the network and represent it as a visual graphic allowing for enhanced money laundering monitoring and detection. The AML system has abilities to use past history of suspicious behavior in the form of probabilistic and deterministic negative files to generate a SAR when strong links are established between an incoming user card with those on negative files. The AML system may also stop or present for review any payment card transaction as it flows through the system. The system has the ability to generate a SAR on all parties involved in the money laundering network based on individual or correlated activities of linked individuals.

The egress channels . may include using the electronic payment card on the internet Web . to buy easily fenceable goods or digital goods using mobile phones . to move money to other accounts and or buy digital goods using ATM .to withdraw funds as cash using the electronic payment card at a Point of Sale .venues to buy fenceable goods and withdraw funds as cash. Each of the channels . and . and funding mechanism are distinctly different with different levels of difficulty in converting the laundered funds back to cash.

According to the exemplary embodiment an anti money laundering AML system is provided that brings together all incoming outgoing and intra network electronic payment transactions in real time through a data transfer API. The data transfer API allows payments systems from various entities such as banks to transmit data into the anti money laundering system in real time in order to reference internal data sources such as historical transactional profiles transaction data including transaction specific data as well as geo location characteristics and external data sources to evaluate the holistic anti money laundering risk of the electronic payment card as well as each channel and funding mechanism. These transactions are used to build transactional profiles of the channels and funding mechanisms to evaluate usage patterns across a single SV PP card or multiple SV PP cards. The dynamic AML system uses these profiles along with transaction attributes such as transaction amount source of funds such as bank or credit cards channel used for loading funds such as POS or ATM velocity such as count and amount sent in the past x days location information such as number of pre paid cards purchased from the same zip code same country same IP address within x hours external data sources and other internal data to evaluate each transaction. Risk for each channel and funding mechanism is assessed on an entity level based on prior usage patterns geo location entity money laundering index other entities linked to it etc. Depending on the use case the AML system will use risk assessment of one or many entities in identifying potential money laundering risk for each transaction.

After each transaction is completely evaluated the anti money laundering system sends a recommendation to approve or generate a Suspicious Activity Report for the transaction back to the originating system through a recommendation API. Review of the transaction may require manual review of the transaction by a customer service agent and or a call to the electronic payments system.

The anti money laundering process may begin by receiving real time payment card transaction data from ingress channels and egress channels from at least one payment card system through the ingress and egress transaction data transfer API ..

This is followed by the anti money laundering monitoring component . generating and or updating transactional profiles for each of at least payment cards the ingress channel the egress channels funding sources of the payment cards and users of the payment cards. The transactional profiles may be used to evaluate usage patterns and in one embodiment are stored as the network graph data . the channel profile data . the transactional profile data . the funding instrument data . and the external data verification database ..

In one embodiment the anti money laundering monitoring component . may generate two types of transactional profiles for each of the electronic payment card the ingress channels the egress channels and the funding source. The first type of transactional profile may comprise a network graph of links between the ingress channels the egress channels the payment cards any users of the payment cards and geo location identities associated with the payment cards. The network graph may be stored as the network graph data ..

The second type of transactional profile may comprise a series of transactional usage patterns at different time intervals for each of the payment cards the ingress channels the egress channels and the funding sources. The transactional usage patterns may be stored as the channel profile data . the transactional profile data . and the funding instrument data .. In addition to this data the anti money laundering management system . may invoking API calls to populate the external data verification database . with data retrieved from external sources that are used to verify geo location e.g. internet protocol IP addresses phone numbers and addresses associated with the current transaction.

In one embodiment the anti money laundering monitoring component . may comprise three main modules namely a network graph module a profile module and external data retrieval module not shown . The network graph module may be configured to create the network graph data .. The profile module may be responsible for creating the transactional profiles including the channel profile data . transactional profile data . and the funding instrument data .. External data retrieval module may be responsible for making the API calls necessary for retrieving the external data used to populate the external verification database .. All three modules may be configured to facilitate fast traversal through the data allow for new data elements to be added without schema changes and accommodate sparse data structures. The three modules may be meta data driven and may have an embedded rules language to build and update relationships and profiles.

After the appropriate transactional profiles are created for the transaction data received from the payments system for a current payment card transaction the transaction data is processed by the anti money laundering rules component .. In response to receiving transaction data for the current payment card transaction the anti money laundering rules component . uses a set of predictive algorithms that compare the transaction data to the transactional profiles to calculate a probabilistic money laundering score for the current transaction.

In one embodiment the anti money laundering rules component . has the capability to pull data from the network graph data . the channel profile data . the transactional profile data . the funding instrument data . and from the external data verification API . to compute predictive probabilistic scores.

The anti money laundering rules component . may be configured to utilize multiple predictive algorithms in general as well as within a given use case. The predictive algorithms may include but are not limited to regression decision trees neural networks random forest and genetic algorithms. The result of the anti money laundering rules component . is a probabilistic score assigned to a transaction and or to the parties involved in the transaction. The anti money laundering rules component . is designed to be self learning with the ability to incorporate new anti money laundering behaviors into the predictive algorithms.

Next the anti money laundering SAR generation component . evaluates the probabilistic money laundering score and the current transaction data based on a set of rules and generates a suspicious activity report recommending to approve or report the current transaction. The anti money laundering SAR generation component . then transmits the SAR back to the payment card system via the recommendation APIs .. The anti money laundering SAR generation component . also identifies an appropriate regulatory body and notifies the regulatory body of the SAR.

The anti money laundering SAR generation component . may utilize a rules language to build and deploy cutoff strategies further refining the probabilistic score to minimize false positive and false negative incidences. The anti money laundering SAR generation component . similar to the anti money laundering scoring system . has access to all other systems and data within the larger anti money laundering system . The anti money laundering SAR generation component . may have self discovery capabilities that allow it to discover and use new data elements without schema and code changes due to the meta data driven nature of the system. The anti money laundering SAR generation component . may include the probabilistic score in the SAR along with a recommendation to approve or report that is sent to the payments system through the transactions recommendation API .. The SAR can be embedded as part of a response back to an incoming transaction request received over the data transfer API or can be posted asynchronously to a pre defined location.

One aspect of the exemplary embodiment is the ability of the anti money laundering system to communicate with one or more payment systems . In one embodiment the ingress egress transaction data transfer API . contains two components a fixed component that allows for uniformity of sending data across multiple channels and a flexible component that allows each channel to send data that is unique and relevant to that channel. The ingress egress transaction data transfer API . may use JavaScript Object Notation JSON to define the payload.

In one embodiment the ingress egress transaction data transfer API . can be one of three versions 1 Fire and Forget used when a sending entity does not expect a response but is merely sending the message to advise the anti money laundering system of a change in status of the payment card 2 Synchronous used when a sending entity is expecting a recommendation as part of the response back to the sending entity and 3 Asynchronous used when a sending entity is expecting a recommendation but not as part of the response back. An asynchronous response is posted back to the sending entity s pre designated location.

Although the ingress and egress transaction data transfer API . the anti money laundering monitoring component . the anti money laundering rules component . the anti money laundering SAR generation component . and the transaction recommendation API . are shown as separate components the functionality of each may be combined into a lesser or greater number of modules components.

In addition it should be understood the anti money laundering system may be implemented as a web service that communicates with one or multiple payments systems over the internet through respective servers not shown . Further the anti money laundering monitoring component . the anti money laundering rules component . and the anti money laundering SAR generation component . may run on one or more servers or on any type of computers that have memory and processors.

The servers and or computers comprising the anti money laundering system may include hardware components of typical computing devices not shown including one or more processors input devices e.g. keyboard pointing device microphone for voice commands buttons touchscreen etc. and output devices e.g. a display device speakers and the like . The servers and computers may include computer readable media e.g. memory and storage devices e.g. flash memory hard drive optical disk drive magnetic disk drive and the like containing computer instructions that implement the functionality disclosed when executed by the processor s . The server and or the computers may further include wired or wireless network communication interfaces for communication.

The funds moving on to an electronic payment card may happen simultaneously across multiple channels and multiple funding sources. The Funds In anti money laundering system process looks at all ingress channels simultaneously and evaluates money laundering risk on both individual electronic payment cards as well as the individual ingress channel.

The funds moving on to a payment card may happen via multiple re loads on the same card in same or different geographies. The anti money laundering rules component . evaluate the velocity and dollar amounts of re loads along with the channels and the geographies used for re loads to evaluate the money laundering risk.

A number of payment cards can be purchased from an address zip code geographic area or IP address by money launderers. If the velocity of cards purchased from the same address zip code geographic area or IP address exceeds some pre determined thresholds then these cards will be flagged by the anti money laundering rules component .. Suspicious activity reports may then be generated depending on users links funding channel etc. associated with these cards or if there is subsequent suspicious activity on these cards.

The tagged transaction moves to the anti money laundering SAR generation component . which evaluates the score the user the channel and payment card based on a set of heuristic rules. If the score is below a predetermined threshold for the attributes of the transaction the anti money laundering SAR generation component . determines which relevant regulatory body needs to be notified and automatically issues the SAR to that regulatory body in blocks . .. In one embodiment the SAR may also be transmitted to the payment system through the recommendation API transports.

According to the exemplary embodiment this funds in process looks at all ingress points simultaneously as well as all funding sources funding in to a single point allowing for capturing money laundering at both an electronic payment card level as well as the individual ingress point.

The tagged transaction moves to the anti money laundering SAR generation component . which evaluates the score the user the channel and payment card based on a set of heuristic rules. If the score is below a predetermined threshold for the attributes of the transaction the anti money laundering SAR generation component . determines which relevant regulatory body needs to be notified and automatically issues the SAR to that regulatory body in blocks . .. In one embodiment the SAR may also be transmitted to the payment system through the recommendation API transports. The non tagged transactions allow money to be moved to the exit channel . ..

The funds out process evaluates at all egress points simultaneously as well as all electronic payment cards egressing out to a single point allowing for capturing money laundering at both an electronic payment card level as well as the individual egress point.

The process looks at all relevant databases for transactional relational and other profile data for the source electronic payment card as well as the relevant data for the destination electronic payment card within the AML monitoring system and provides an a tag to denote to the system to file a SAR to the relevant regulatory agency . . The system examines every single movement through the electronic payment card network captures the movement by creating links between the various endpoints thus allowing for detection of Money laundering activities and networks at each point of movement.

A method and system for detecting electronic payment card amoney laundering has been disclosed. The present invention has been described in accordance with the embodiments shown and there could be variations to the embodiments and any variations would be within the spirit and scope of the present invention. For example the exemplary embodiment can be implemented using hardware software a computer readable medium containing program instructions or a combination thereof. Software written according to the present invention is to be either stored in some form of computer readable medium such as a memory a hard disk or a CD DVD ROM and is to be executed by a processor. Accordingly many modifications may be made by one of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

