---

title: Actuatable contact lenses
abstract: Apparatus, systems and methods for facilitating actuatable contact lenses are provided. In one aspect, the contact lens can include: a substrate comprised of a material that is actuatable to at least one of change a base curvature from a first curvature to a second curvature or change a thickness from a first thickness to a second thickness; and a control component, operably coupled to the material, that outputs actuation information to cause the material to actuate and at least one of change the base curvature of the material or change the thickness of the material. The contact lens can be actuated based on a condition associated with an environment surrounding the contact lens, a sensed prescription for an eye over which the contact lens is placed or based on a focal point of the eye. The material can include piezoelectric film, a shape memory alloy, hydrogel and/or silicone elastomer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08919953&OS=08919953&RS=08919953
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08919953
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120802
---
Corneal molding is a non surgical process that reshapes the cornea of the eye using special contact lenses sometimes known as corneal molds or retainers. Conventional corneal mold retainer contact lenses are specially prescribed for an individual to mold to the eye of the individual and are worn overnight and taken out during the day. As the eye relaxes over the course of the day the wearer of the corneal mold retainer contact lens must place the contact lenses back into his her eye to re mold the eyes. This process can be inconvenient and unpredictable for example if the individual has a short night e.g. getting up early or a long day e.g. staying up late .

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more aspects in order to provide a basic understanding of such aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects. Its purpose is to present some concepts of one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

In one or more aspects the disclosed subject matter relates to a contact lens that includes a substrate that includes a material adapted to actuate and form a first one of a plurality of base curvatures at a first time and a second one of the plurality of base curvatures at a second time.

In one or more aspects the disclosed subject matter relates to a contact lens that includes a substrate that includes a material adapted to actuate and change a thickness of the material from a first thickness at a first time to a second thickness at a second time.

In one or more aspects the disclosed subject matter relates to a contact lens that can include a substrate having a material that is actuatable to at least one of change a base curvature of the material from a first curvature to a second curvature or change a thickness of the material from a first thickness to a second thickness and a control component operably coupled to the material that outputs actuation information to cause the material to actuate and at least one of change the base curvature of the material or change the thickness of the material.

In one or more aspects the disclosed subject matter relates to a method of actuating a contact lens. The method can include receiving actuation information indicative of at least one of a base curvature of a contact lens or a thickness of a material of the contact lens and actuating the contact lens by at least one of changing the base curvature or changing the thickness of the substrate based at least on the receiving the information.

In one or more aspects the disclosed subject matter relates to a contact lens that includes a substrate having a material adapted to actuate and change a hydration level of the material from a first hydration level at a first time to a second hydration level at a second time and a control component operably coupled to the material that generates an electric field to cause the material to actuate and change the hydration level of the material.

Toward the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more aspects include the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth herein detail certain illustrative aspects of the one or more aspects. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various aspects can be employed and the described aspects are intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents.

Various aspects are now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It is evident however that such aspects can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing one or more aspects.

It is to be appreciated that in accordance with one or more aspects described in this disclosure users can opt out of providing personal information demographic information location information proprietary information medical information sensitive information or the like in connection with data gathering aspects. Moreover one or more aspects described herein can provide for anonymizing collected received or transmitted data.

Apparatus systems and methods disclosed herein relate to actuatable contact lenses. In particular an actuatable contact lens can include a substrate having of a material that is actuatable to change a base curvature of the material from a first curvature to a second curvature or change a thickness of the material from a first thickness to a second thickness. The actuatable contact lens can also include a control component operably coupled to the material that outputs actuation information to cause the material to actuate and change the base curvature of the material or change the thickness of the material. In various aspects the actuatable contact lens can also include a control component that can determine the base curvature and or thickness to which the contact lens should actuate and or output information e.g. voltage temperature electric field to cause the actuation. In some aspects temperature can be output from other elements near the contact lens including but not limited to the eyelid or air near the eye.

In some aspects the control component can detect conditions associated with the contact lens e.g. environment or focal point of an eye over which the contact lens is placed and adjust the base curvature and or thickness accordingly.

Accordingly one or more aspects of the apparatus systems and or methods described herein can advantageously facilitate adaptive change of a prescription strength of a contact lens.

In various aspects the actuatable contact lens can detect or otherwise obtain one or more environmental conditions surrounding the actuatable contact lens e.g. the presence of sun or moon nighttime or daytime focal points of the eye over which the actuatable contact lens is placed e.g. highway page of a book flower and or landscape . The actuatable contact lens can dynamically adjust the base curvature and or the thickness of the contact lens based on the detected conditions in various aspects.

In some aspects the system can also include a prescription information component adapted to transmit and or receive information to and or from the actuatable contact lens to change the base curvature and or thickness of the contact lens. The actuatable contact lens can adjust the base curvature and or thickness based on the information from the prescription information component .

Various aspects of the actuatable contact lens will be described with reference to B C A B C and D. B and C are illustrations of diagrams of exemplary non limiting actuatable contact lenses in accordance with aspects described herein. are illustrations of diagrams of exemplary non limiting actuatable contact lenses having different base curvatures in accordance with aspects described herein. are illustrations of diagrams of exemplary non limiting actuatable contact lenses having different thicknesses in accordance with aspects described herein.

Turning first to the contact lens can include a substrate and a material disposed on integrated with and or coupled to the substrate. The contact lens can also include a control component in some aspects. The control component can be electrically coupled to the material and or the substrate in various aspects. In some aspects one or more of the substrate material and or control component or components thereof can be fabricated through multi stage injection molding to join such dissimilar materials to one another.

In various aspects the substrate can be transparent and or translucent. In various aspects the substrate is formed to cover at least a portion of the eye.

In some aspects the material can be disposed on one or more portions of the substrate . In various aspects the material can be disposed on an inner surface of the substrate against an eye of the wearer of the contact lens and or disposed on an outer surface of the substrate .

With reference to B C A and B in various aspects the material can be adapted to mold the eye of the wearer by actuating to the different base curvatures and or thicknesses. For example the material can actuate and cause the contact lens to form different base curvatures at different points in time. For example the material can actuate to cause the contact lens to form a first base curvature e.g. the base curvature shown at at a first time and a second base curvature e.g. the base curvature shown at at a second time. As such the contact lens can change base curvature based on the actuation of the material . In various aspects the base curvature of a contact lens can be the radius of the sphere of the side of the contact lens that contacts the eye.

In various aspects the material can be adapted to actuate and change to one of a plurality of different thicknesses based on a temperature experienced by the material. For example the material can actuate and become thinner causing the material to have a first thickness e.g. the thickness shown at . As another example the material can actuate and become thicker causing the material to have a second thickness e.g. the thickness shown at . In various aspects different types of material can be provided in on a single contact lens such that various materials can have different thicknesses concurrently. As such the contact lens can change thickness based on the actuation of the material s e.g. material .

In various aspects the material can be adapted to actuate and change to one of a plurality of different thicknesses based on an electric field or affects of electrowetting experienced by the material. For example the material can be a hydrogel. The material can actuate and have a first hydration level causing the material to have a first thickness resulting in the thickness shown at . As another example the material can actuate and have a second hydration level resulting in the thickness shown at . In various aspects different types of material can be provided on a single contact lens such that various materials can have different hydration levels and corresponding thicknesses concurrently. As such the contact lens can change thickness based on the actuation of the material .

In various aspects the material can be adapted to actuate and change base curvature and or thickness depending on the information output by the control component . In various aspects described herein the material can be actuated to change base curvature and or thickness and or the material can be actuated to cause the contact lens to change base curvature and or thickness.

In various aspects the material can be or can include a shape memory alloy. In various aspects the shape memory alloy can be one or more different shape memory alloys that are biocompatible. In some aspects the shape memory alloy can include but is not limited to Nitinol NiTi Nickel Titanium Titanium Nitride TiNi copper aluminum nickel copper zinc aluminum iron manganese silicon or the like. The shape memory alloy can be adapted to actuate and change base curvature and or thickness of the contact lens depending on temperature and or a stress applied to the contact lens generated by a wearer of the contact lens . In some embodiments the stress can be applied to the contact lens by pressure from the eyelid of the eye in which the contact lens is being worn. For example in aspects wherein the contact lens is worn during sleep the contact lens can take on a first base curvature and or thickness based on the temperature generated during sleep and or the stress e.g. eyelid pressure applied to the material . Similarly while the wearer of the contact lens is awake and the eyes of the contact lens wearer are open the contact lens can take on a second base curvature and or thickness based on the temperature generated while awake and or the stress applied to the material . The rate at which the material changes base curvature and or thickness can be based on the type of the shape memory alloy selected for the contact lens . Accordingly the shape memory alloy can re shape the eye of the wearer of the contact lens based on the base curvature resultant from the actuation for example.

When the shape memory alloy experiences a change in temperature the shape memory alloy can be deformed into another shape and the base curvature and or thickness of the contact lens can be changed. The shape memory alloy remains in this new shape until the temperature of the shape memory alloy increases above a transition temperature. When the shape memory alloy experiences this change in temperature the shape memory alloy returns to its original shape and the original base curvature and or thickness with which the contact lens was designed remaining in this state until deformed again. The temperature applied to the shape memory alloy can be controlled by an output from the control component . In one aspect the shape memory alloy of material demonstrates a one way memory effect. In another aspect the shape memory alloy of material demonstrates a two way memory effect.

In various aspects the material can be or include a piezoelectric film. In various aspects the piezoelectric film can include but is not limited to a piezoelectric ceramic and or polyvinylidene fluoride PVDF . Because PVDF has a high degree of translucency the PVDF can be employed in aspects wherein the material is provided over an area of the contact lens through which the wearer of the contact lens would like to view the environment outside of the contact lens. In some aspects PVDF and or another piezoelectric film can be formulated to be substantially optically transparent. In other aspects thin piezoelectric ceramic material can be employed as the material when the material is provided over the pupil area through which the wearer of the contact lens must view an environment outside of the contact lens .

The voltage applied to the piezoelectric film to actuate the material can be an output from the control component . For example a particular voltage corresponding to a base curvature and or thickness or corresponding to an amount of change in base curvature and or thickness can be output from the control component .

In various aspects the voltage can be output based on power generated by the control component . The control component can include but is not limited to a photovoltaic device and or a radio frequency RF device.

In various aspects the piezoelectric film can actuate based on voltage received from a source external to the contact lens . For example the source can be an energy source located remote from the contact lens e.g. an RF source or photovoltaic device and configured to transmit energy wirelessly to the material of the contact lens .

In various aspects the material can be a hydrogel. An electric field applied to the hydrogel to actuate the material can be an output from the control component . For example a particular strength of an electric field corresponding to a thickness or corresponding to an amount of a change in thickness can be output from the control component . Accordingly electrowetting or similar methods can be employed to change the hydration level and correspondingly the level of swelling or thickness of the material .

In other aspects the material can be any number of different types of material that can swell thereby changing level of thickness of the material . In some of these aspects swelling can be initiated from processes other than water uptake. By way of example but not limitation the material can be or include one or more silicone elastomers. The silicone elastomer can swell change in level of thickness in response to a temperature change. For example a temperature change can be induced electrically through heating elements included within or controlled by control components . The control components can control the heating elements to output a predefined amount of heat. The silicone elastomer can swell in response to the temperature change resultant from the output of heat from the heating elements. Similarly the silicone elastomer can contract in response to temperature change resultant from the lack of heat output from the heating elements.

In other aspects any number of other different types of materials that swell or contract in response to water uptake or temperature change can be employed for actuation of the contact lenses described herein.

The control components of B and C respectively can be described in further detail with reference to . In various aspects one or more of the structure and or functionality of the control component can be included in the structure and or functionality of the control components and vice versa .

In various aspects the control component can output information adapted to actuate the control lens. In some aspects the information output can be based on information received from a source outside of the contact lens. The source can be sensed e.g. environment changes and or can transmit the information to the control component e.g. optometrist office transmitting new prescription information for the wearer of the contact lens prescription information component of . Accordingly the contact lens can be actuated in real time based on static and or based on dynamic information.

The communication component can transmit information to the material. In some aspects the information transmitted can be a voltage an electric field and or temperature associated with a particular base curvature and or thickness of the material.

For example with regard to the output of an electric field in some embodiments the communication component can transmit an electric field to the material. The electric field can affect a change in a hydration level of the material thereby changing the thickness of the material. By way of example but not limitation the communication component can transmit an electric field to a material such as hydrogel. Via electrowetting or similar methods the hydrophobicity of the hydrogel can change from a first level to a second level thereby changing the hydration level and thickness of the hydrogel.

In some aspects the communication component can transmit and or receive to and or from a location remote from the contact lens. For example information associated with a particular base curvature and or thickness to which the contact lens should be actuated can be transmitted and or received. As another example information including but not limited to environment conditions e.g. time night day can be received by the communication component for actuation of the contact lens to a corresponding base curvature and or thickness.

In some aspects the communication component can receive an audio command associated with a particular base curvature and or thickness and actuate the contact lens accordingly. Accordingly actuation of the contact lens can be audio driven in various aspects.

The base curvature component can determine a base curvature to which the contact lens should be actuated. The base curvature determined by the base curvature component can correspond to a condition detected e.g. by the detection component and or based on information received by the communication component in various aspects.

In various aspects the base curvature component can determine the base curvature based on one or more values for base curvature and corresponding features. For example a table or array of the one or more values and or corresponding features can be stored in the memory of the control component in some aspects. As another example the base curvature component can determine the base curvature dynamically based on the features detected by the detection component and one or more methods for determining base curvature stored in or accessible by the base curvature component .

The material thickness component can determine a thickness to which the contact lens should be actuated. The thickness determined by the material thickness component can correspond to a condition detected e.g. by the detection component and or based on information received by the communication component in various aspects.

In various aspects the material thickness component can determine the material thickness based on one or more values for material thickness and corresponding features detected by the detection component . For example a table or array including the one or more values and or corresponding features can be stored in the memory of the control component in some aspects. As another example the material thickness component can determine the material thickness dynamically based on the features detected by the detection component and one or more methods for determining thickness stored in or accessible by the material thickness component .

The power component can be configured to provide a current to the material for actuating the material. In various aspects the power component can be or include a small battery. In some aspects the power component can be or include photovoltaic cells and or an antenna. In various aspects the power component can include any structure for performing radio frequency RF harvesting.

The power component can provide a current or voltage associated with the base curvature and or thickness determined by the base curvature component and or the material thickness component respectively. For example in aspects wherein the material is a piezoelectric film actuated by a particular voltage differential the power component can receive a designated base curvature and or thickness from the base curvature component and or the material thickness component and generate a corresponding voltage that is applied to the material. The voltage can be based on the type of the piezoelectric film in some aspects. In aspects wherein the contact lens includes only shape memory alloys the power component need not apply a voltage to affect the base curvature and or material thickness desired. Rather the power component can generate heat to cause a change in temperature at the material and corresponding actuation. In aspects wherein the contact lens includes only hydrogel the power component may not provide a voltage or temperature to affect the material thickness desired. Rather the power component can generate an electric field to cause a change in hydrophobicity of the material and corresponding actuation.

In some aspects the power component can include one or more heating elements not shown . In some aspects power can be provided to the one or more heating elements to cause the heating elements to generate and output heat to cause a change a change in temperature at the material and corresponding actuation. For example in aspects wherein the material is a silicone elastomer the one or more heating elements can generate and output heat to cause a change in temperature resulting in swelling of the material. The one or more heating elements can similarly cease to generate and output heat thereby resulting in the silicone elastomer contracting relative to a swelled state .

The memory can be a computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions and or information for performing the functions described in this disclosure with reference to the control component . The microprocessor can perform one or more of the functions described in this disclosure with reference to the control component or components thereof .

The detection component can detect one or more features that can be associated with a particular desired base curvature and or thickness of the contact lens. The detection component will be described in greater detail with reference to detection component of . One or more of the structure and or functionality of detection component can be as described with reference to the detection component and vice versa .

Turning to the detection component can include a communication component an environment detection component a prescription determination component a focal point detection component a memory and or a microprocessor . In one or more aspects one or more of the communication component environment detection component prescription determination component focal point detection component memory and or microprocessor can be electrically and or communicatively coupled to one another to perform one or more functions of the detection component .

The communication component can transmit and or receive stored and or detected information to or from the control component . For example the information can include but is not limited information about the environment surrounding the contact lens information about the prescription for an eye over which the contact lens is placed and or information about an image in a focal point of the eye.

In some aspects the base curvature component and or the material thickness component can receive such information from the detection component and determine a respective base curvature and or material thickness to which the contact lens should be actuated.

The environment detection component can detect the environment surrounding the contact lens. In various aspects the environment can be a time of day e.g. nighttime daytime time a weather condition e.g. sunny foggy or the like. For example the base curvature and or thickness can be adjusted to address night vision difficulties in some aspects in response to detection of a nighttime environmental condition. As an example the contact lens can be actuated to adjust the base curvature and or thickness when a nighttime environmental condition is detected.

The prescription determination component can determine the prescription for the eye in which the contact lens is placed. For example if a contact lens designated for a left eye is placed in the right eye the prescription determination component can determine the prescription for the right eye and determine information for adjusting the contact lens base curvature and or thickness to the prescription for the right eye. In various aspects the prescription determination component can update the prescription of the contact lens based on information received at the control component from a third party source e.g. optometrist office prescription information component based on a level of persistent blurriness detected via the focal point detection component as described below and or based on a signal received at the prescription determination component from a nearby device e.g. a mobile device in which the user enters his her prescription.

In some aspects an actuated contact lens can adjust base curvature and or thickness to adjust for astigmatism. For example the contact lens can alter the shape of the contact lens on one side more than on the other side.

In some aspects to improve hyperopia in the wearer of the contact lens the focal point detection component can adjust the base curvature and or thickness based on a determination of whether a focal point of a wearer of the contact lens is near or far from the contact lens. Similarly in some aspects if the focal point is a book that is in close range information can be output for adjustment of the base curvature and or thickness to improve myopia.

For example the focal point detection component can adjust the base curvature and or thickness to cause a change in lens shape e.g. flattening of the lens due to relaxation of the ciliary muscles for a certain amount of time as an indicator that the user is attempting to focus far and thickening of lens due to contraction of the ciliary muscle for a certain amount of time as an indicator that the user is attempting to focus near .

Accordingly aspects described herein can reduce the need for bifocals and or augment failing muscles in the eye that change the focal length of the lens in the eye. For example the contact lens can assist the eye during accommodation. Further in various aspects the information can be updated and or output in real time as determined by the conditions experienced by the wearer of the contact lens.

The memory can be a computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions and or information for performing the functions described in this disclosure with reference to the detection component . The microprocessor can perform one or more of the functions described in this disclosure with reference to the detection component or components thereof . Memory and memory can be the same memory or parts of the same memory. Microprocessor and microprocessor can be the same microprocessor or parts of the same microprocessor.

While method details a first method of actuation of the contact lens method details a second method of actuation which is based on detection of one or more conditions.

Turning first to at method can include receiving actuation information indicative of at least one of a base curvature or a thickness of a material of the contact lens e.g. using the material . In some aspects the actuation information received by the material can be a voltage received at the material for causing the material to change base curvature and or thickness for example.

In some aspects actuation information can be based on audio information detected by the control component.

At method can include actuating the contact lens by at least one of changing the base curvature or changing the thickness of the material based at least on the receiving the information e.g. using the control component . In some aspects actuating the contact lens can be performed dynamically.

In some aspects actuating the contact lens can include providing an amount of voltage or temperature to adjust the base curvature or the thickness of the substrate. For example for aspects wherein the material is a piezoelectric film a control component can apply an amount of voltage to the piezoelectric film causing the piezoelectric film to change base curvature from a first curvature to a second curvature and or to change thickness from a first thickness to a second thickness. The amount of change in curvature and or thickness can be based on the type of piezoelectric film and the response of such film to a particular voltage.

At method can include detecting a condition associated with the contact lens e.g. using the detection component .

In some aspects detecting the condition can include receiving data indicating one or more different conditions associated with an environment surrounding the contact lens receiving data indicating a prescription for an eye over which the contact lens is placed and or receiving data indicating a desired focal point e.g. at a desired working distance of the eye.

In some aspects the condition can include a particular environment e.g. night day surrounding the contact lens. The environment can be detected by the environment detection component of the detection component in some aspects.

In some aspects the conditions can include a sensed prescription for an eye over which the contact lens is placed. For example when a contact lens is inserted the contact lens can detect a prescription associated with the eye in which the contact lens is inserted and actuate the contact lens to a particular base curvature and or thickness based on the prescription for the eye. The prescription can be detected by the prescription determination component of the detection component in some aspects.

In some aspects the condition can be the distance between the contact lens and the focal point of an eye over which the contact lens is placed. For example the focal point of the contact lens can be far from the contact lens and the contact lens can then actuate to a base curvature and or thickness to correct myopia. To the contrary the focal point can be near the contact lens and the contact lens can actuate to a base curvature and or thickness for hyperopia. The distance between the focal point of the contact lens and the contact lens can be detected by the focal point detection component of the detection component in some aspects.

At method can include actuating the contact lens in response to the condition detected e.g. using the control component .

In some aspects although not shown the methods described herein can include detecting an audio command associated with at least one of a base curvature or a thickness of the contact lens e.g. using the communication component of the detection component . Actuating the contact lens can be in response to the detection of the audio command e.g. using the control component .

One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that the various aspects described in this disclosure can be implemented in connection with any computer or other client or server device which can be deployed as part of a computer network or in a distributed computing environment and can be connected to any kind of data store where vision prescription information may be found. For example the control component described herein can be communicatively coupled to a computer or other client or server device that stores prescription information. In this regard the various aspects described in this disclosure can be implemented in association with any computer system or environment having any number of memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units. This includes but is not limited to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment or a distributed computing environment having remote or local storage.

Distributed computing provides sharing of computer resources and services by communicative exchange among computing devices and systems. These resources and services include the exchange of information cache storage and disk storage for objects such as files. These resources and services can also include the sharing of processing power across multiple processing units for load balancing expansion of resources specialization of processing and the like. Distributed computing takes advantage of network connectivity allowing clients to leverage their collective power to benefit the entire enterprise. In this regard a variety of devices may have applications objects or resources that may participate in the various aspects of this disclosure.

Each computing object etc. and computing objects or devices etc. can communicate with one or more other computing objects etc. and computing objects or devices etc. by way of the communications network either directly or indirectly. Even though illustrated as a single element in network can include other computing objects and computing devices that provide services to the system of and or can represent multiple interconnected networks which are not shown. Each computing object etc. or computing objects or devices etc. can also contain an application such as applications that might make use of an application programming interface API or other object software firmware and or hardware suitable for communication with or aspect of the various aspects of the subject disclosure.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems can be connected together by wired or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many networks are coupled to the Internet which provides an infrastructure for widely distributed computing and encompasses many different networks though any network infrastructure can be used for exemplary communications made incident to the systems as described in various aspects.

Thus a host of network topologies and network infrastructures such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures can be utilized. The client can be a member of a class or group that uses the services of another class or group. A client can be a computer process e.g. roughly a set of instructions or tasks that requests a service provided by another program or process. A client can utilize the requested service without having to know all working details about the other program or the service itself.

As used in this application the terms component component system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware software firmware a combination of hardware and software software and or software in execution. For example a component can be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a computing device and or the computing device can be a component. One or more components can reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component can be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable storage media having various data structures stored thereon. The components can communicate by way of local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems by way of the signal .

Moreover the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from the context the phrase X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is the phrase X employs A or B is satisfied by any of the following instances X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from the context to be directed to a singular form.

In a client server architecture particularly a networked system a client can be a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer e.g. a server. In the illustration of as a non limiting example computing objects or devices etc. can be thought of as clients and computing objects etc. can be thought of as servers where computing objects etc. provide data services such as receiving data from client computing objects or devices etc. storing of data processing of data transmitting data to client computing objects or devices etc. although any computer can be considered a client a server or both depending on the circumstances. Any of these computing devices can process data or request transaction services or tasks that can implicate the techniques for systems as described in this disclosure for one or more aspects.

A server can be typically a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the Internet or wireless network infrastructures. The client process can be active in a first computer system and the server process can be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Any software objects utilized pursuant to the techniques described in this disclosure can be provided standalone or distributed across multiple computing devices or objects.

In a network environment in which the communications network bus can be the Internet for example the computing objects etc. can be Web servers file servers media servers etc. with which the client computing objects or devices etc. communicate via any of a number of known protocols such as the secure hypertext transfer protocol SHTTP . Objects etc. can also serve as client computing objects or devices etc. as can be characteristic of a distributed computing environment.

As mentioned advantageously the techniques described in this disclosure can be associated with any suitable device. It is to be understood therefore that handheld portable and other computing devices and computing objects of all kinds are contemplated for use in connection with the various aspects i.e. anywhere that a device may wish to read or write transactions from or to a data store. Accordingly the below remote computer described below in is but one example of a computing device.

Although not required aspects can be partly implemented via an operating system for use by a developer of services for a device or object and or included within application software that operates to perform one or more functional aspects of the various aspects described in this disclosure. Software can be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program components being executed by one or more computers such as client workstations servers or other devices. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that computer systems have a variety of configurations and protocols that can be used to communicate data and thus no particular configuration or protocol is to be considered limiting.

With reference to an exemplary computing environment for implementing one or more aspects includes a computing device in the form of a computer is provided. Components of computer can include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit .

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media and can be any available media that can be accessed by computer . The system memory can include computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM . By way of example and not limitation memory can also include an operating system application programs other program components and program data.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through input devices non limiting examples of which can include a keyboard keypad a pointing device a mouse stylus touchpad touch screen trackball motion detector camera microphone joystick game pad scanner video camera or any other device that allows the user to interact with the computer . A monitor or other type of display device can be also connected to the system bus via an interface such as output interface . In addition to a monitor computers can also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and a printer which can be connected through output interface .

The computer can operate in a networked or distributed environment using logical connections to one or more other remote computers such as remote computer . The remote computer can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node or any other remote media consumption or transmission device and can include any or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a network such local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN but can also include other networks buses e.g. cellular networks.

As mentioned above while exemplary aspects have been described in connection with various computing devices and network architectures the underlying concepts can be applied to any network system and any computing device or system in which it is desirable to publish or consume media in a flexible way.

Also there are multiple ways to implement the same or similar functionality e.g. an appropriate API tool kit driver code operating system control standalone or downloadable software object etc. which enables applications and services to take advantage of the techniques detailed herein. Thus aspects herein are contemplated from the standpoint of an API or other software object as well as from a software or hardware object that implements one or more aspects described in this disclosure. Thus various aspects described in this disclosure can have aspects that are wholly in hardware partly in hardware and partly in software as well as in software.

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media and or communications media in which these two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows. Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer can be typically of a non transitory nature and can include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program components structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disc read only memory CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

On the other hand communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program components or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media.

It is to be understood that the aspects described in this disclosure can be implemented in hardware software firmware middleware microcode or any combination thereof. For a hardware aspect the processing units can be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers microprocessors and or other electronic units designed to perform the functions described in this disclosure or a combination thereof.

When the aspects are implemented in software firmware middleware or microcode program code or code segments they can be stored in a machine readable medium or a computer readable storage medium such as a storage component. A code segment can represent a procedure a function a subprogram a program a routine a subroutine a component a software package a class or any combination of instructions data structures or program statements. A code segment can be coupled to another code segment or a hardware circuit by passing and or receiving information data arguments parameters or memory contents. Information arguments parameters data etc. can be passed forwarded or transmitted using any suitable means including memory sharing message passing token passing network transmission etc.

For a software aspect the techniques described in this disclosure can be implemented with components or components e.g. procedures functions and so on that perform the functions described in this disclosure. The software codes can be stored in memory units and executed by processors. A memory unit can be implemented within the processor or external to the processor in which case it can be communicatively coupled to the processor via various structures.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. For the avoidance of doubt the subject matter disclosed herein is not limited by such examples. In addition any aspect or design described in this disclosure as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs nor is it meant to preclude equivalent exemplary structures and techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has contains and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims for the avoidance of doubt such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

What has been described above includes examples of one or more aspects. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the aforementioned aspects but one of ordinary skill in the art can recognize that many further combinations and permutations of various aspects are possible. Accordingly the described aspects are intended to embrace all such alterations modifications and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims. Moreover use of the term an aspect or one aspect throughout is not intended to mean the same aspect unless specifically described as such. Further use of the term plurality can mean two or more.

The aforementioned systems have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It can be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or specified sub components some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components and according to various permutations and combinations of the foregoing. Sub components can also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components hierarchical . Additionally it is to be noted that one or more components can be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality or divided into several separate sub components and that any one or more middle layers such as a management layer can be provided to communicatively couple to such sub components in order to provide integrated functionality. Any components described in this disclosure can also interact with one or more other components not specifically described in this disclosure but generally known by those of skill in the art.

In view of the exemplary systems described above methodologies that can be implemented in accordance with the described subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flowcharts of the various figures. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks can occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described in this disclosure. Where non sequential or branched flow is illustrated via flowchart it can be appreciated that various other branches flow paths and orders of the blocks can be implemented which achieve the same or a similar result. Moreover not all illustrated blocks can be required to implement the methodologies described in this disclosure after.

In addition to the various aspects described in this disclosure it is to be understood that other similar aspects can be used or modifications and additions can be made to the described aspect s for performing the same or equivalent function of the corresponding aspect s without deviating there from. Still further multiple processing chips or multiple devices can share the performance of one or more functions described in this disclosure and similarly storage can be provided across a plurality of devices. The invention is not to be limited to any single aspect but rather can be construed in breadth spirit and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

