---

title: Seamless tethering setup between phone and laptop using peer-to-peer mechanisms
abstract: The subject technology discloses configurations for determining, at a first computing device, if a second computing device is within a predetermined distance of the first computing device. The subject technology then establishes, at the first computing device, a wireless near field communication (NFC) connection with the second computing device. Information for configuring a wireless tethering connection with the second computing device is then transmitted over the wireless NFC connection. Further, the subject technology receives, over the wireless NFC connection, confirmation that the wireless tethering connection has been configured.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09634726&OS=09634726&RS=09634726
owner: GOOGLE INC.
number: 09634726
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121102
---
The subject technology generally relates to tethering between computing devices in order to share network connectivity. One computing device may access another computing device s network connection by tethering with the other computing device. A configuration to utilize tethering between these two computing devices may require multiple steps that increase the difficulty of sharing the other computing device s networking connectivity.

The subject technology provides for determining at a first computing device if a second computing device is within a predetermined distance of the first computing device establishing at the first computing device a wireless near field communication NFC connection with the second computing device in which establishing the wireless NFC connection is responsive to the determination that the first computing device is within the predetermined distance of the second computing device transmitting over the wireless NFC connection information for configuring a wireless tethering connection with the second computing device and receiving over the wireless NFC connection confirmation that the wireless tethering connection has been configured.

The subject technology further provides determining at a first computing device if a second computing device is within a predetermined distance of the first computing device establishing at the first computing device a wireless near field communication NFC connection with the second computing device in which establishing the wireless NFC connection is responsive to the determination that the first computing device is within the predetermined distance of the second computing device receiving over the wireless NFC connection information for configuring a wireless tethering connection with the second computing device performing at the first computing device a configuration to set up the wireless tethering connection with the second computing device and transmitting over the wireless NFC connection a confirmation that the wireless tethering connection has been configured to the second computing device.

Yet another aspect of the subject technology provides a system. The system includes memory one or more processors and one or more modules stored in memory and configured for execution by the one or more processors. The system includes a wireless near field communication NFC module configured to determine if a computing device is within a predetermined distance establish a wireless NFC connection with the computing device in which establishing the wireless NFC connection is responsive to the determination that the computing device is within the predetermined distance. The system further includes a wireless tethering module configured to transmit over the wireless NFC connection information for configuring a wireless tethering connection with the computing device and receive over the wireless NFC connection confirmation that the wireless tethering connection has been configured.

The subject technology further provides for determining at a first computing device if a second computing device is within a predetermined distance of the first computing device establishing at the first computing device a wireless near field communication NFC connection with the second computing device in which establishing the wireless NFC connection is responsive to the determination that the first computing device is within the predetermined distance of the second computing device transmitting over the wireless NFC connection information for configuring a wireless tethering connection with the second computing device receiving over the wireless NFC connection confirmation that the wireless tethering connection has been configured and transmitting over the wireless tethering connection data from a web browser to access one or more web sites on the Internet.

It is understood that other configurations of the subject technology will become readily apparent from the following detailed description where various configurations of the subject technology are shown and described by way of illustration. As will be realized the subject technology is capable of other and different configurations and its several details are capable of modification in various other respects all without departing from the scope of the subject technology. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

The detailed description set forth below is intended as a description of various configurations of the subject technology and is not intended to represent the only configurations in which the subject technology may be practiced. The appended drawings are incorporated herein and constitute a part of the detailed description. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing a thorough understanding of the subject technology. However the subject technology is not limited to the specific details set forth herein and may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances structures and components are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the concepts of the subject technology.

Existing implementations for wireless tethering may involve a multitude of steps that contribute to a difficult process for establishing wireless tethering between computing devices. To address such issues the subject technology provides automatic wireless tethering from a device requiring an Internet connection to a second device with Internet access by using a wireless near field communication NFC connection or other near field communication technologies to set up a wireless tethering connection between the devices.

In one example a first and second computing device such as a laptop and mobile device each with NFC capabilities are provided. The mobile device in this example acts as a hotspot for providing Internet access for the laptop. An automatic process for establishing a wireless tethering connection is then initiated by tapping one of the devices onto the other device which brings the devices within a threshold distance for exchanging information via near field communications over a NFC connection. In this regard the laptop transfers via the NFC connection information such as an intent e.g. a request for setting up a hotspot credentials hotspot SSID password and or its MAC address with the mobile device. Based on the information the mobile device subsequently performs a configuration involving one or more operations such as setting up a hotspot connection e.g. the wireless tethering connection adding the laptop s MAC address to a list of restricted MAC addresses for accessing the hotspot connection etc. Confirmation that the hotspot connection is configured may then be transmitted via the NFC connection back to the laptop e.g. via the NFC connection . A user on the laptop may then utilize the hotspot connection for accessing the Internet via the mobile device.

Although the above description describes utilizing NFC for establishing a wireless tethering connection other types of technologies may be utilized and still be within the scope of the subject technology. For instance technologies such as Wi Fi BLUETOOH WLAN etc. may be utilized for establishing the wireless tethering connection. Additionally the above example is described assuming that the hotspot connection is automatically selected via a single Internet access point. However in some instances a particular device may have access to a multiple Internet access points e.g. different routers etc. . In such an example the device with access to multiple access points may return a list of possible network connections to the other device for selection in order to establish a wireless tethering connection with the device that provides Internet access. In some instances a particular Internet access point among multiple access points may be automatically selected based on criteria such as signal strength or another metric.

In the stage the computing device initiates communication by tapping or moving within a predetermined distance or proximity within the mobile computing device . In this manner an NFC link may be established between the computing device and the mobile computing device . In one example information for setting up the NFC link may be exchanged between the computing device and the mobile computing device . Based on this information the mobile computing device may perform a configuration of the NFC link . In some instances a confirmation message or acknowledgment may be transmitted to the computing device that the NFC link has been successfully established.

As further shown in the stage the mobile computing device may have access to one or more network connections corresponding to respective access points to a network e.g. the Internet . In the example of the computing device may exchange over the NFC link information such as credentials and or setup data for establishing a wireless tethering connection with one of the network connections from among the networks connections . Other types of information may be provided and still be within the scope of the subject technology.

In the stage after the wireless tethering connection has been established the computing device transmits data for accessing one or more web sites on the Internet over a wireless link to the mobile computing device . The data may be transmitted over a network connection to a network for accessing the web site on the Internet. Other types of data may be provided by the computing device and transmitted over the wireless link and still be within the scope of the subject technology. Further the computing device may transmit data to access other computing devices or systems via the network in addition to web sites. By way of example the computing device may access one or more computing devices or systems that provide cloud based services e.g. cloud storage cloud media servers etc. .

Although the example shown in illustrates a scenario in which the computing device accesses the network connection provided by the mobile computing device it should be appreciated that the mobile computing device could share a network connection s to an access point s provided via the computing device and still be within the scope of the subject technology.

The process begins at by determining at a first computing device if a second computing device is within a predetermined distance of the first computing device. If it is determined that a second computing device is not within the predetermined distance of the first computing device the process then ends. In some configurations the first computing device is a laptop computing device and the second computing device is a mobile device. Determining if the first computing device is within the predetermined distance of the second computing device is responsive to the first computing device physically tapping the second computing device in one example or vice versa . The predetermined distance corresponds with a communication range of the NFC connection so that the two respective devices can successfully communicate in some configurations.

If it is determined at that a second computing device is within the predetermined distance of the first computing device the process continues to to establish at the first computing device a wireless near field communication NFC connection with the second computing device. In one example establishing the wireless NFC connection is responsive to the determination that the first computing device is within the predetermined distance of the second computing device.

The process at transmits over the wireless NFC connection information for configuring a wireless tethering connection with the second computing device. In some configurations information for setting up a wireless tethering connection with the second computing device includes a request for setting up the wireless tethering connection credential information or a network interface address of the first computing device. For instance the credential information includes a username and password. Moreover the credential information may include a subscriber identification information for authenticating a user and or a user s device. Additionally the credential information may include a verified certificate e.g. from a trusted third party certificate authority etc. for authenticating a user. The network interface address may include a unique identifier assigned to a network interface e.g. MAC address etc. of the first computing device.

The process at receives over the wireless NFC connection confirmation that the wireless tethering connection has been configured. Once the wireless tethering connection has been configured the process may transmit over the wireless tethering connection data from a web browser running on the first computing device to access one or more web sites on the Internet e.g. as illustrated in . Other types of applications running on the first computing device may transmit data over the wireless tethering connection and still be within the scope of the subject technology. The process then ends.

The process begins at by determining at a first computing device if a second computing device is within a predetermined distance of the first computing device. In some configurations the first computing device is a mobile device and the second computing device is a laptop computing device or vice versa . If it is determined that the second computing device is not within the predetermined distance of the first computing device the process then ends.

Alternatively if the process determines at that a second computing device is within the predetermined distance of the first computing device the process continues to to establish at the first computing device a wireless near field communication NFC connection with the second computing device. Establishing the wireless NFC connection is responsive to the determination that the first computing device is within the predetermined distance of the second computing device in some configurations.

At the process receives over the wireless NFC connection information for configuring a wireless tethering connection with the second computing device. By way of example the information may include a request for setting up the wireless tethering connection credential information or a network interface address of the second computing device.

The process at performs at the first computing device a configuration to set up the wireless tethering connection with the second computing device. In some configurations the configuration to set up the wireless tethering connection includes 1 setting up a hotspot connection for accessing the Internet based on information for configuring the wireless tethering connection with the second computing device and 2 adding a network interface address of the second computing device to a list of restricted network interface address for accessing the hotspot connection.

The process at transmits over the wireless NFC connection a confirmation that the wireless tethering connection has been configured to the second computing device. The confirmation may be a notification message or acknowledgement that the wireless tethering connection has been successfully established. In some configurations after the wireless tethering connection has been established the process may receive over the wireless tethering connection data from a web browser running on the second computing device to access one or more web sites on the Internet. Other types of data may be received from other applications running on the second computing device over the wireless tethering connection and still be within the scope of the subject technology. The process then ends.

The system can include memory one or more processors and one or more modules stored in memory and configured for execution by the one or more processors. As shown in the system includes several modules for providing different functionality. The system is configured to include a wireless near field communication NFC module and a wireless tethering module .

In some configurations the wireless NFC module is configured to determine if a computing device is within a predetermined distance establish a wireless NFC connection with the computing device in which establishing the wireless NFC connection is responsive to the determination that the computing device is within the predetermined distance.

In some configurations the wireless tethering module is configured to transmit over the wireless NFC connection information for configuring a wireless tethering connection with the computing device and receive over the wireless NFC connection confirmation that the wireless tethering connection has been configured. The wireless tethering module is further configured to transmit over the wireless tethering connection data from a web browser to access one or more web sites on the Internet.

The wireless NFC module is further configured to determine if a second computing device is within a predetermined distance and establish a second wireless near field communication NFC connection with the second computing device in which establishing the wireless NFC connection is responsive to the determination that the second computing device is within the predetermined distance.

The wireless tethering module is further configured to receive over the wireless NFC connection information for configuring a wireless tethering connection with the second computing device perform a configuration to set up the wireless tethering connection with the second computing device and transmit over the wireless NFC connection a confirmation that the wireless tethering connection has been configured to the second computing device. Additionally the wireless tethering module is further configured to receive over the wireless tethering connection data from a web browser running on the second computing device to access one or more web sites on the Internet.

As further shown in each of the aforementioned modules can be configured to communicate between each other. For instance different data messages API calls and returns can be passed between the different modules in the system . In addition the system may communicate with a computing device or other computing device s . The system may communicate over a network with one or more web sites servers etc.

Many of the above described features and applications are implemented as software processes that are specified as a set of instructions recorded on a machine readable storage medium also referred to as computer readable medium . When these instructions are executed by one or more processing unit s e.g. one or more processors cores of processors or other processing units they cause the processing unit s to perform the actions indicated in the instructions. Examples of machine readable media include but are not limited to CD ROMs flash drives RAM chips hard drives EPROMs etc. The machine readable media does not include carrier waves and electronic signals passing wirelessly or over wired connections.

The peripherals interface can be coupled to various sensors and subsystems including a camera subsystem a wireless communication subsystem s audio subsystem and Input Output subsystem . The peripherals interface enables communication between processors and peripherals. The peripherals provide different functionality for the mobile device. Peripherals such as an orientation sensor or an acceleration sensor can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate the orientation and acceleration functions. Additionally the mobile device can include a location sensor to provide different location data. In particular the location sensor can utilize a Global Positioning System GPS to provide different location data such as longitude latitude and altitude.

The camera subsystem can be coupled to one or more optical sensors such as a charged coupled device CCD optical sensor or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS optical sensor. The camera subsystem coupled with the sensors can facilitate camera functions such as image and or video data capturing. Wireless communication subsystems can serve to facilitate communication functions. Wireless communication subsystems can include radio frequency receivers and transmitters and optical receivers and transmitters. The aforementioned receivers and transmitters can be implemented to operate over one or more communication networks such as a Long Term Evolution LTE Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network a Wi Fi network Bluetooth network etc. The audio subsystem is coupled to a speaker and a microphone to facilitate voice enabled functions such as voice recognition digital recording etc.

I O subsystem involves the transfer between input output peripheral devices such as a display a touchscreen etc. and the data bus of the processor through the Peripherals Interface. I O subsystem can include a touchscreen controller and other input controllers to facilitate these functions. Touchscreen controller can be coupled to the touchscreen and detect contact and movement on the screen using any of multiple touch sensitivity technologies. Other input controllers can be coupled to other input control devices such as one or more buttons.

Memory interface can be coupled to memory which can include high speed random access memory and or non volatile memory such as flash memory. Memory can store an operating system OS . The OS can include instructions for handling basic system services and for performing hardware dependent tasks.

By way of example memory can also include communication instructions to facilitate communicating with one or more additional devices graphical user interface instructions to facilitate graphic user interface processing image video processing instructions to facilitate image video related processing and functions phone instructions to facilitate phone related processes and functions media exchange and processing instructions to facilitate media communication and processing related processes and functions camera instructions to facilitate camera related processes and functions and video conferencing instructions to facilitate video conferencing processes and functions. The above identified instructions need not be implemented as separate software programs or modules. Various functions of mobile device can be implemented in hardware and or in software including in one or more signal processing and or application specific integrated circuits.

In this specification the term software is meant to include firmware residing in read only memory and or applications stored in magnetic storage which can be read into memory for processing by a processor. Also in some implementations multiple software components can be implemented as sub parts of a larger program while remaining distinct software components. In some implementations multiple software subject components can also be implemented as separate programs. Finally a combination of separate programs that together implement a software component s described here is within the scope of the subject technology. In some implementations the software programs when installed to operate on one or more systems define one or more specific machine implementations that execute and perform the operations of the software programs.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in a form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in some form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine object or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

Some configurations are implemented as software processes that include one or more application programming interfaces APIs in an environment with calling program code interacting with other program code being called through the one or more interfaces. Various function calls messages or other types of invocations which can include various kinds of parameters can be transferred via the APIs between the calling program and the code being called. In addition an API can provide the calling program code the ability to use data types or classes defined in the API and implemented in the called program code.

One or more APIs may be used in some configurations. An API is an interface implemented by a program code component or hardware component API implementing component that allows a different program code component or hardware component API calling component to access and use one or more functions methods procedures data structures classes and or other services provided by the API implementing component. An API can define one or more parameters that are passed between the API calling component and the API implementing component.

The following description describes an example system in which aspects of the subject technology can be implemented.

The bus collectively represents all system peripheral and chipset buses that communicatively connect the numerous internal devices of the system . For instance the bus communicatively connects the processing unit s with the read only memory the system memory and the storage device .

From these various memory units the processing unit s retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of the subject technology. The processing unit s can be a single processor or a multi core processor in different implementations.

The read only memory ROM stores static data and instructions that are needed by the processing unit s and other modules of the system . The storage device on the other hand is a read and write memory device. This device is a non volatile memory unit that stores instructions and data even when the system is off. Some implementations of the subject technology use a mass storage device such as a magnetic or optical disk and its corresponding disk drive as the storage device .

Other implementations use a removable storage device such as a flash drive a floppy disk and its corresponding disk drive as the storage device . Like the storage device the system memory is a read and write memory device. However unlike storage device the system memory is a volatile read and write memory such a random access memory. The system memory stores some of the instructions and data that the processor needs at runtime. In some implementations the subject technology s processes are stored in the system memory the storage device and or the read only memory . For example the various memory units include instructions for processing multimedia items in accordance with some implementations. From these various memory units the processing unit s retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of some implementations.

The bus also connects to the optional input and output interfaces and . The optional input interface enables the user to communicate information and select commands to the system. The optional input interface can interface with alphanumeric keyboards and pointing devices also called cursor control devices . The optional output interface can provide display images generated by the system . The optional output interface can interface with printers and display devices such as cathode ray tubes CRT or liquid crystal displays LCD . Some implementations can interface with devices such as a touchscreen that functions as both input and output devices.

Finally as shown in bus also couples system to a network interface through a network adapter not shown . In this manner the computer can be a part of a network of computers such as a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or an Intranet or an interconnected network of networks such as the Internet. The components of system can be used in conjunction with the subject technology.

These functions described above can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry in computer software firmware or hardware. The techniques can be implemented using one or more computer program products. Programmable processors and computers can be included in or packaged as mobile devices. The processes and logic flows can be performed by one or more programmable processors and by one or more programmable logic circuitry. General and special purpose computing devices and storage devices can be interconnected through communication networks.

Some implementations include electronic components such as microprocessors storage and memory that store computer program instructions in a machine readable or computer readable medium alternatively referred to as computer readable storage media machine readable media or machine readable storage media . Some examples of such computer readable media include RAM ROM read only compact discs CD ROM recordable compact discs CD R rewritable compact discs CD RW read only digital versatile discs e.g. DVD ROM dual layer DVD ROM a variety of recordable rewritable DVDs e.g. DVD RAM DVD RW DVD RW etc. flash memory e.g. SD cards mini SD cards micro SD cards etc. magnetic and or solid state hard drives read only and recordable Blu Ray discs ultra density optical discs optical or magnetic media and floppy disks. The computer readable media can store a computer program that is executable by at least one processing unit and includes sets of instructions for performing various operations. Examples of computer programs or computer code include machine code such as is produced by a compiler and files including higher level code that are executed by a computer an electronic component or a microprocessor using an interpreter.

While the above discussion primarily refers to microprocessor or multi core processors that execute software some implementations are performed by one or more integrated circuits such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs . In some implementations such integrated circuits execute instructions that are stored on the circuit itself.

As used in this specification and the claims of this application the terms computer server processor and memory all refer to electronic or other technological devices. These terms exclude people or groups of people. For the purposes of the specification the terms display or displaying means displaying on an electronic device. As used in this specification and the claims of this application the terms computer readable medium and computer readable media are entirely restricted to tangible physical objects that store information in a form that is readable by a computer. These terms exclude wireless signals wired download signals and other ephemeral signals.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be a form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in a form including acoustic speech or tactile input. In addition a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user for example by sending web pages to a web browser on a user s client device in response to requests received from the web browser.

Configurations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or a combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by a form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN an inter network e.g. the Internet and peer to peer networks e.g. ad hoc peer to peer networks .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In some configurations a server transmits data e.g. an HTML page to a client device e.g. for purposes of displaying data to and receiving user input from a user interacting with the client device . Data generated at the client device e.g. a result of the user interaction can be received from the client device at the server.

It is understood that a specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is an illustration of example approaches. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes can be rearranged or that all illustrated steps be performed. Some of the steps can be performed simultaneously. For example in certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing can be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the configurations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all configurations and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

The previous description is provided to enable a person skilled in the art to practice the various aspects described herein. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein can be applied to other aspects. Thus the claims are not intended to be limited to the aspects shown herein but is to be accorded the full scope consistent with the language claims wherein reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless specifically so stated but rather one or more. Unless specifically stated otherwise the term some refers to one or more. Pronouns in the masculine e.g. his include the feminine and neuter gender e.g. her and its and vice versa. Headings and subheadings if any are used for convenience only and do not limit the subject technology.

A phrase such as an aspect does not imply that such aspect is essential to the subject technology or that such aspect applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to an aspect can apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. A phrase such as an aspect can refer to one or more aspects and vice versa. A phrase such as a configuration does not imply that such configuration is essential to the subject technology or that such configuration applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to a configuration can apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. A phrase such as a configuration can refer to one or more configurations and vice versa.

The word example is used herein to mean serving as an example or illustration. An aspect or design described herein as example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs.

All structural and functional equivalents to the elements of the various aspects described throughout this disclosure that are known or later come to be known to those of ordinary skill in the art are expressly incorporated herein by reference and are intended to be encompassed by the claims.

