---

title: Navigating a synchronized transcript of spoken source material from a viewer window
abstract: A method and system for producing and working with transcripts according to the invention eliminates time inefficiencies. By dispersing a source recording to a transcription team in small segments, so that team members transcribe segments in parallel, a rapid transcription process delivers a fully edited transcript within minutes. Clients can view accurate, grammatically correct, proofread and fact-checked documents that shadow live proceedings by mere minutes. The rapid transcript includes time coding, speaker identification and summary. A viewer application allows a client to view a video recording side-by-side with a transcript. Clicking on a word in the transcript locates the corresponding recorded content; advancing a recording to a particular point locates and displays the corresponding spot in the transcript. The recording is viewed using common video features, and may be downloaded. The client can edit the transcript and insert comments. Any number of colleagues can view and edit simultaneously.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09141938&OS=09141938&RS=09141938
owner: TIGERFISH
number: 09141938
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121030
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 127 635 filed May 27 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 306 816 issued Nov. 6 2012 which claims benefit of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 60 940 197 filed May 25 2007 the entirety of each of which is incorporated herein by this reference thereto.

The invention generally relates to transcription of spoken source material. More particularly the invention is directed to a method and system for rapid transcription.

Transcription is the rendering of the spoken word into written form. While this process goes back to the earliest examples of written poetry and narrative this discussion will focus on the modern practice of transcription in the various disciplines that have need of it.

Thomas Edison invented the phonograph for the purpose of recording and reproducing the human voice using a tinfoil covered cylinder in 1877. When Edison listed ten uses for his invention the top item was Letter writing and all kinds of dictation without the aid of a stenographer. Prior to this a reporter would have to rely on contemporary notes and the business world on secretaries trained to take shorthand and type up the notes later. Edison s invention created the possibility that something said in one location could later be transcribed elsewhere with the additional benefit of repeated listening for greater accuracy. Since then advances in the field of transcription have been closely tied to the development of recording technology.

By the 1930 s machines specifically designed for dictation and playback had become ubiquitous in American offices. Gradually cylinder based machines gave way to tape but until the 1990 s the practice of transcription still required the physical delivery of recorded media from the location of recording to the location of transcription.

In the early 1990 s practitioners began to recognize and make use of the potential of the Internet and email in the practice of transcription. Whereas previously a transcript needed to be printed and delivered to a client Internet email made it possible to simply attach a document in electronic form to an email message. Additionally as tape recordings began to be replaced by digital media and businesses became more sophisticated in their use of the Internet recordings destined for transcription could be uploaded to a secure web site and then downloaded by the transcriber.

In spite of these technological advances that have greatly eased the receipt and delivery of transcription materials transcription of speech remains a cumbersome process that is of limited utility to clients for at least two reasons. The first reason is the amount of time required to transcribe speech into written form the second has to do with the ability of clients to coordinate the original speech with the completed transcripts.

Transcription relies on the abilities of a trained professional to listen carefully understand what is being said and accurately transfer the content and nuance to the written page. To do this well requires a great deal of time. Digital recording and electronic communication have accelerated the transmission of recordings and delivery of transcripts but a skilled transcriber still requires at least several hours to transcribe one hour of recorded speech. In this era of instant communication and an ever accelerating need for information and materials even this amount of time has begun to seem a roadblock to timely business interactions.

The second difficulty referred to above has to do with the difficulty of reconciling a written transcription with its recorded source. For example a documentary filmmaker may shoot twelve rolls of interviews and have them transcribed in order to find the most useful footage. Even though the transcripts contain time coding that is synchronized with the recordings it can still be a cumbersome time consuming task for the filmmaker to go back and locate the desired footage based on the written transcript. Often this sort of project involves many hours of footage arriving from different sources in various locations thus compounding the problem.

Accordingly there exists a great need in the art to reduce or eliminate the time inefficiencies imposed on clients by the labor intensive nature of the conventional transcription process and the difficulty of reconciling the transcript with the source.

A method and system for producing and working with transcripts according to the invention eliminates the foregoing time inefficiencies. By dispersing a source recording to a transcription team in small segments so that team members transcribe segments in parallel a rapid transcription process delivers a fully edited transcript within minutes. Clients can view accurate grammatically correct proofread and fact checked documents that shadow live proceedings by mere minutes. The rapid transcript includes time coding speaker identification and summary. A viewer application allows a client to view a video recording side by side with a transcript. Clicking on a word in the transcript locates the corresponding recorded content advancing a recording to a particular point locates and displays the corresponding spot in the transcript. The recording is viewed using common video features and may be downloaded. The client can edit the transcript and insert comments. Any number of colleagues can view and edit simultaneously.

A method and system for producing and working with transcripts according to the invention eliminates the foregoing time inefficiencies. By dispersing a source recording to a transcription team in small segments so that team members transcribe segments in parallel a rapid transcription process delivers a fully edited transcript within minutes. Clients can view accurate grammatically correct proofread and fact checked documents that shadow live proceedings by mere minutes. The rapid transcript includes time coding speaker identification and summary. A viewer application allows a client to view a video recording side by side with a transcript. Clicking on a word in the transcript locates the corresponding recorded content advancing a recording to a particular point locates and displays the corresponding spot in the transcript. The recording is viewed using common video features and may be downloaded. The client can edit the transcript and insert comments. Any number of colleagues can view and edit simultaneously.

Referring now to shown is a diagrammatic representation of a machine in the exemplary form of a computer system within which a set of instructions for causing the machine to perform any one of the methodologies discussed herein below may be executed. In alternative embodiments the machine may comprise a network router a network switch a network bridge personal digital assistant PDA a cellular telephone a web appliance or any machine capable of executing a sequence of instructions that specify actions to be taken by that machine.

The computer system includes a processor a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a display unit for example a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device for example a keyboard a cursor control device for example a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device for example a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored a set of executable instructions i.e. software embodying any one or all of the methodologies described herein below. The software is also shown to reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor . The software may further be transmitted or received over a network by means of a network interface device .

In contrast to the system discussed above a different embodiment of the invention uses logic circuitry instead of computer executed instructions to implement processing offers. Depending upon the particular requirements of the application in the areas of speed expense tooling costs and the like this logic may be implemented by constructing an application specific integrated circuit ASIC having thousands of tiny integrated transistors. Such an ASIC may be implemented with CMOS complimentary metal oxide semiconductor TTL transistor transistor logic VLSI very large scale integration or another suitable construction. Other alternatives include a digital signal processing chip DSP discrete circuitry such as resistors capacitors diodes inductors and transistors field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic array PLA programmable logic device PLD and the like.

It is to be understood that embodiments of this invention may be used as or to support software programs executed upon some form of processing core such as the Central Processing Unit of a computer or otherwise implemented or realized upon or within a machine or computer readable medium. A machine readable medium includes any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer. For example a machine readable medium includes read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices electrical optical acoustical or other form of propagated signals for example carrier waves infrared signals digital signals etc. or any other type of media suitable for storing or transmitting information.

Turning now to in overview a method for rapid transcription may include at least one of the following steps 

The rapid transcript process is used to create within minutes a written transcript of taped or live proceedings. The transcript is posted in incrementally updated segments on a web page accessible only by the client. The client can read the text directly from the web page as well as download recordings of the event and copies of the transcript in a series of continually updated documents.

Rapid transcript employs a novel system configuration that allows a provider to quickly disperse short segments for example one minute in length of a live event or recording to any number of transcribers. This allows each member of a team of transcribers to be simultaneously working on a given segment of recorded material. Thus if it takes a single transcriber one hour to transcribe a fifteen minute recording a team of five transcribers can have the entire segment transcribed edited and posted to a web site within twenty minutes. In the case of a live event this means that participants in a meeting or on a conference call for example can be viewing an accurate grammatically correct proofread and fact checked document that shadows the live proceedings upon which it is based by mere minutes. This transcript includes time coding speaker identification and a summary of important points. The transcript can be delivered via email or through a secure web page giving clients easy access via computer or handheld device.

Referring now to shown is a schematic diagram of a system for rapid transcribing. At a provider s location an FTP file transfer protocol server receives source material in the form of audio input from any source and encodes the source material into audio files such as mp3 format or various other compressed media formats. Audio may arrive via the Internet using VoiceOverIP VOIP various streaming media or SHOUTCAST AOL LLC Dulles Va. software. Audio may also arrive via landline telephone or cell phone connection.

The audio signal is converted into segments of predetermined configurable length one minute for example by a recording system such as the VRS recording system NCH SOFTWARE PTY. LTD. Canberra Australia . Each audio segment may be saved to a source folder with a filename that includes a unique alphanumeric code identifying the client and project followed by the year month day hour and minute of the segment.

Any number of individual password protected folders is established on the FTP server for each transcriber and editor. A synchronization module copies the audio segments from the source folder and pastes a copy of each one into each Transcriber s and Editor s FTP folder. In one embodiment SYNCTOY MICROSOFT CORPORATION Redmond Wash. fills the role of synchronization module. When copying files from the source folder to the transcriber and editor folders using SYNCTOY S combine synchronization method assures that files exist at both locations while deleted and renamed files are ignored. Using such a synchronization method is preferred in this case because as explained below during the production process as transcribers transcribe audio segments downloaded from the FTP server the segments are deleted from transcriber s folder. The use of a synchronization method that ignores deleted files assures that system resources are not wasted copying files from the source folder unnecessarily.

The transcriber stations and Editor stations are typically but not necessarily located off site. A transcriber station typically constitutes a computational device programmed to enable transcription of human speech. In one embodiment the computational device is programmed with transcribing software such as EXPRESS SCRIBE NCH SOFTWARE PTY. LTD. . Additionally the transcriber station includes a transcriber operating the computational device to transcribe downloaded segments.

An editor station typically constitutes a computation device programmed to enable activities such as editing proofreading and fact checking. Additionally the editor station includes an editor using the computational device to perform the activities of an editor.

In the transcriber stations and editor stations are surrounded by a dashed line for ease of representation to indicate the similarity of their status as clients to the web server and the FTP server . Double headed arrows between the transcriber stations and editor stations and the servers are included to illustrate the bidirectional data flow between the clients and the servers. The dashed line is not intended to indicate that the client in the form of transcriber stations and or editor stations are disposed at the same location although they could be.

A web server includes a front end that manages authentication to the main page described in greater detail below. Whenever a transcriber arrives at the main page URL the log in action through a before filter verifies a browser s session user ID against those stored at the web server . If verification fails the browser is redirected to a login page. If the browser authenticates successfully the browser is redirected to the main page.

Preferably a new password protected web page is created for each Rapid Transcript project that may include one or more main pages for use by the Transcribers one or more append pages and one or more Client pages upon which the final edited transcript is posted.

Clicking one of the buttons redirects the browser to an append page that is associated with the time stamp above the button. An append page contains a text field and a text field submit button. It is to be noted here that portions of an embodiment of the present application employ a model view controller development framework for example Ruby on Rails wherein the model is understood to constitute a data model the view constitutes a user interface and the controller constitutes the application s control logic. However other programming approaches and or development frameworks can be employed to implement the system herein described and are within the scope of claims. The text field submit button when clicked submits the text field input to an action which then passes the input to a model which in turn adds the input to a data structure such as a table which is associated with a particular time stamp. Transcribers claim a segment for transcription by placing their initials in the field associated with a given audio segment. In this way a group of transcribers is able to spontaneously organize itself for maximum efficiency.

For example as shown in the first two time stamps bear the transcriber initials NS and AG respectively. Thus those two segments have been claimed by the transcribers identified by the initials NS and AG. As above the transcriber may claim a time stamp by clicking the append button for the time stamp which navigates the transcriber to the append page for the time stamp. Upon gaining access to the append page the transcriber may enter his her initials in the text field and click the submit button whereupon the transcriber s initials are entered into the data structure for the time stamp and subsequently displayed on the append page. In one embodiment as shown in the transcriber s initials appear above the append button for the time stamp.

As previously described recorded segments are written to the transcriber folders on the FTP server . In order to download the recorded segments to a transcribing station the transcriber sets up an automated incoming FTP connection. The transcribing software on the transcription station is then configured to authenticate and check for new files in the transcriber s folder at regular intervals of for example one minute. As new files become available they are automatically downloaded to the transcription station . Whenever the client station downloads new files over the FTP connection the transcriber can chose to transcribe a new audio file. In actual practice the transcriber transcribes only files that the transcriber has claimed by means of the foregoing reservation process.

The transcriber looks for the claimed file among the downloaded audio files and transcribes the claimed file.

After finishing the transcription the transcriber may then upload the transcription by the previously described process for submitting input he she navigates to the main page clicks the append button for the particular time stamp. Clicking the append button navigates the transcriber to the append page for the time stamp. The transcriber then pastes the transcript into the text submit box for the time stamp clicks the submit button and the text of the transcript is submitted in the manner previously described. Subsequently the transcriber s browser is then navigated to the main page to claim another time stamp. In this way a rough draft of the source material is produced by a team of transcribers working in parallel.

It should be noted that the Rapid Transcript process can also make use of stenography or voice recognition software to produce this initial rough draft.

If a staff member is observing a live meeting involving multiple speakers she may also log on to the main page and take notes regarding the speaker ID directly on the web page. Transcribers can consult this speaker ID log while transcribing.

The next step is to edit the individual segments into a single document. An editor logs on to the project website and copies transcribed text from one or more cells text from more than one cell can be copied in one swath . The text is then pasted into a word processing program on the Editor s computer. The editor listens to the audio segments and cross references the transcribed material against the recorded segments. If the material at this point is ready for the client the editor uploads the edited transcript to the Client web page. If the material requires additional fact checking the editor can upload the edited transcript to a second website where another reviews the material and checks facts.

A client begins by logging on to the provider s password protected website. This brings the client to a dedicated web page containing a list of the client s projects. More will be said about the client page herein below. Any number of people associated with a given project may be logged on concurrently.

The web page created for the client consists of the transcript with time coding side by side with a column containing a summary if requested. Links to the one minute audio or video segments are provided as well as a link to a recording of the entire proceeding. As well as reading from the website the client is able to download the transcript in either PDF or word processing file formats. The transcript can also be sent by email directly from this web page.

The rapid transcript method can be utilized in translation as well. For a session that includes a translator the client s web page typically displays three main columns transcription in the original language the translator s words and the provider s own expert translation.

Turning now to shown is a matrix depicting an exemplary workflow for the rapid transcript process. The timeline shown in is merely illustrative and is not intended to be limiting. The following description proceeds by describing the role of each of the parties at each point on the timeline.

Initially before an event a number of preparatory activities are carried out by the provider the transcribers and the editors. The provider for example may perform any of 

Each of the transcribers and editors may also have a preparatory role. For example each may need to configure his or her audio playback software to download recorded segments. Additionally each transcriber claims at least one segment. Finally the client in anticipation of the event may log onto a password protected web page. More will be said about the client s page below.

At minute the provider records the first segment of the speech that is to be transcribed. In one embodiment the segment length is set at one minute. However segment length is a configurable parameter and thus the exemplary segment length of one minute is not intended to be limiting. It should be noticed that the segments are recorded with an overlap in order to prevent loss of material. In one embodiment the overlap is configured to be five seconds in length.

At minute the provider uploads segment to the FTP site. Transcriber downloads segment and begins transcribing it. The remaining transcribers download subsequent segments as they become available. The client may from their web site review the audio of segment .

At minute the provider uploads segment to the FTP site. Transcriber completes transcription of segment . Transcriber posts the transcript to the web page in an appropriate cell and claims segment . Transcriber begins transcription of segment . Editor begins proofreading of segment .

At minute the provider uploads segment to the FTP site and transcriber begins transcription of segment . Editor completes proofreading of segment and posts the proofread transcription to a second web page.

At minute the provider uploads segment to the FTP site and transcribers begins transcription of segment . Transcriber may complete transcribing of segment and posts the transcript to the web page in the appropriate cell. Transcriber then claims segment . Editor begins proofreading segment . Editor fact checks segment and posts to the client web page.

At minute the provider uploads segment to the FTP site. Transcriber may finish with segment and post it to the web page in the appropriate cell and then claim segment . Transcriber may begin transcribing segment . Transcriber may begin transcribing segment and posts it to the web page in the appropriate cell. Transcriber then may claim segment . Editor completes proofreading segment and posts the proofread transcript to the second web page. Editor may then begin proofreading segment . The client may review the first installation of the transcript.

At minute the provider uploads segment to the FTP site. Transcriber may then begin transcription of segment . Editor typically completes segment by this time and posts it to the second web page. Editor then proceeds to proofread segment . Editor fact checks segment .

At minute there may remain no further segments to upload. Transcriber completes segment and posts it to the web page in the appropriate cell. Transcriber completes segment and posts the transcript to the web page in an appropriate cell. Editor completes proofreading segment and posts to the second web page. Editor then begins proofreading segments and . Editor fact checks segment and posts segments and to the client web page.

At minute Editor completes proofreading segments and . Editor begins and completes fact checking segment . The second installation of the transcript is available to the client containing segments .

At minute Editor begins and completes fact checking segments and . The workflow proceeds in such fashion until all segments have been transcribed edited and fact checked and reviewed by the client. The rapid transcript process may terminate for example approximately five minutes after the end of a live event with the delivery of a completed transcript. Additionally the client may download the audio and or video of the entire event from the client s project web site. Additionally the transcript may be downloaded as a word processing or .PDF file or sent via email.

As described above the usefulness of a conventional transcript to the client is limited because the transcript is not synchronized to the source content. Therefore the client must spend a great deal of time searching through the transcript and the source material in order to reconcile them to each other. In order to eliminate this cumbersome chore transcripts are synchronized to the source material.

Synch links a written transcript to its source material. In one embodiment the process of linking transcript and source material follows the rapid transcript process either immediately or at some unspecified future time. In another embodiment the synchronization process can be applied to any conventional transcript produced from audio and or video source material. A web page allows a client to view a video recording for example side by side with a transcript of the video s audio content. In one embodiment the client sees four main items on the screen A video a transcript a list of projects and a tagg table. A tagg is a memo or description created by the client that describes the contents of a portion of the video. In this way the client is provided a means for reviewing and making decisions concerning audio or video recording by means of a transcript which is linked to the recording. Multiple recordings can thus be categorized and referenced a particular phrase can be located in the written transcript and immediately reviewed in the recording.

Each point in the recording is synchronized to the corresponding text in the written transcript so that clicking on a word in the transcript automatically locates the corresponding spot in the recording. Conversely advancing a recording to a particular point automatically locates and displays the corresponding text in the transcript. The recording can be viewed using common video viewing features play stop skip forwards and backwards play at various speeds etc. and may be downloaded. The client can read and edit the written transcript and insert comments. Any number of colleagues can be using this service to work on a series of transcripts simultaneously.

To synchronize the source material with the transcript the source material is generally converted to a media player file format if necessary. One embodiment converts source videos to the QUICKTIME APPLE INC. Cupertino Calif. video format. The ordinarily skilled practitioner will also appreciate that the QUICKTIME application can also play many other types of media files such MPEG MP3 and WAV. Thus audio files can also be rendered in a format compatible with the QUICKTIME player.

As previously described one or more transcribers create a transcript of the source material typically using a word processing application such as WORD MICROSOFT CORPORATION . At the time the transcription is created the transcriber s place s time code markers in the transcript. If necessary the transcript may be re formatted using a text editor such as TEXTPAD HELIOS SOFTWARE SOLUTIONS Longridge UK . Using a media transcription application such as INQSCRIBE INQUIRIUM LLC Chicago Ill. the media file is combined with information about the embedded time codes in the transcript. The transcript is then further formatted to convert into a table wherein the time codes and the written words in the transcript are associated with each other in a one to one relationship. In one embodiment converting the transcript to a table is accomplished by using a spreadsheet application such as EXCEL MICROSOFT CORPORATION to format the transcript into cells consisting of time codes and transcript words. Each cell from the spreadsheet file then becomes a field in the database table. The words of the transcript are associated to the appropriate segment of source content by means of the time codes. As described below a project includes a database wherein the transcript tables are stored. When the client selects a project to view as described below the transcript is reconstituted by displaying the words stored in the database in the correct order.

As previously described in relation to the time code process a web site is created for each project. The project web site preferably includes at least one password protected client page wherein the client is able to view the transcript.

As above a project is created for example in RUBY ON RAILS. As above the project is preferably password protected. Authentication is preferably managed by the development platform by components provided within the development platform including an authentication database and controller. A client begins by logging on to the password protected web site. This brings them to the client page a detailed view of which is shown in which contains a list of their projects. Any number of people associated with a given project may be logged on concurrently.

Having negotiated the authentication process the client gains access to the main interface. In one embodiment the main interface includes one or more of the following sections 

After having logged in the client s web browser calls a controller from Ruby on Rails. The controller collects all the HTML items and text items from the Ruby on Rails model and from the Ruby on Rails view template. These text items are displayed in a pre made template on the client s browser. The template is specified by the HTML items mentioned above. The template specifies which text item goes to which portion of the four portions of the main page mentioned above. Then the main page is loaded.

The client opens a project by selecting a project from the list . This brings up the web page where on one side of the screen one can view a recording and on the other side there is a corresponding written transcript . As described above the transcript and video are linked. That is to say each point in the recording corresponds to a specific place in the written transcript. Additionally the project s tagg table is displayed . Whenever a client selects a project different from the current one being displayed the web page replaces these four elements with elements of the new project without the browser being reloaded. The replacement is done by a script that hides the element that is being replaced and sets the new element s CSS cascading style sheets visibility attribute to visible. All projects are loaded. Their CSS visibility attribute is by default set to hidden. 

An embodiment enables the linking and coordination of the viewable recording the written transcript and the various associated taggs. Each point in the recording corresponds to a specific place in the written transcript if taggs have been created they are linked to specific places in both the video and the written transcript. The client then has three options for navigating the material clicking on a word in the transcript automatically locates the corresponding spot in the recording advancing a recording to a particular point automatically locates and displays the corresponding spot in the transcript and clicking on a tagg will bring the user to the corresponding places in the video and transcript and display the contents of the tagg in a dialogue box.

After the project is open the client may click on any text in the transcript. Clicking on a point in the transcript automatically locates the corresponding spot in the recording and plays the recording from this spot forward. This occurs because an event called ST Set Time in a JavaScript library that passes the video ID and the time stamp which are embedded in the text to the QUICKTIME player . The QUICKTIME player automatically issues a CB Call Back which carries the message whether or not the portion of video has been loaded. When the very same JavaScript library receives this message it either notifies the client through a CSS pop up that the video is still being downloaded and cannot be played or it plays the video beginning at the spot indicated by the time stamp .

Additionally advancing a recording to a particular point automatically locates and displays the corresponding spot in the transcript.

The client can view the recording using common video viewing features play stop skip forwards and backwards play at various speeds and so on .

The client can also read and edit the written transcript. When the client mouses over the written transcript a transparent balloon tip reveals the time code in the corresponding recording. Depending on the client s specifications time codes may show the elapsed time of the recording the day and time of the original recording or the SMPTE Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers time code embedded in the original recording.

The client can drag the play bar in the QUICKTIME player to a desired position . The client then pushes a Show Text button next to the QUICKTIME player. This calls a JavaScript function which passes the current playtime timestamp in the QUICKTIME player to a JavaScript library which then evaluates which converts hours minutes seconds timestamp to an integer timestamp and finds the closest matching word ID whose timestamp is the closest match to the current playtime timestamp . This JavaScript function then highlights the text whose timestamp matches the word ID that was just found. This very same JavaScript function passes that word ID and timestamp to a hidden form for possible tagg creation . The browser displays and highlights the text corresponding to the words spoken in the video .

As above a tagg is a memo of description created by the client that describes the contents of a portion of the video. By interacting with the tagg table the client is able to navigate through the video in a similar manner to that enabled by interacting with the transcript. The client may click on a tagg whose URL calls an action Show Text in the controller . The action then calls a plurality of functions from the JavaScript library Replace Text Replace Video Start Stop and Seek in Transcript 

When the client finds a useful or interesting portion of the written transcript he or she can create a tagg. Any number of taggs can be created by various users in a single project and they can be cross referenced with multiple recordings and transcripts within a project. Taggs are created by highlighting a desired portion of text. Once the text is highlighted a dialogue box appears and the client may give this tagg a title. Taggs may be of any length. A new tagg may overlap an existing segment. Additionally a tagg may have a name attribute which allows the client or another party to assign a name to the portion of the recorded source material that the Tagg applies to.

When a new tagg is defined by the client the program automatically records details related to the tagg including the author of the segment the date and time the segment was created the original recording that correlates with the segment and the beginning and ending time codes of the segment.

MARKERS Once a tagg has been defined the written transcript includes visual markers that identify the starting and ending points of the tagg. Markers are named according to the source recording. The opening marker of a segment is displayed in colored text green for example the closing marker is displayed in a color distinct from that of the opening marker red for example. COMMENTS Immediately upon defining a tagg clients are prompted to write a comment. The client may write a comment of any length relating to a given tagg. Additionally a client may add a comment to a previously created tagg. Clients can also record comments about taggs in response to other clients previously written remarks. This may serve as a forum for discussing materials.

When mousing over the beginning or ending markers a balloon opens with comments and identifying information.

To create a tagg the client highlights using the mouse a portion of the transcript. Highlighting the portion of the transcript triggers a pair of JavaScript events 

The FormPopUp event utilizes the CSS visibility attribute to unhide the hidden form mentioned above so that the client is now able to enter desired descriptive information in this form. When he or she has done so the client clicks a button which submits the form to a URL which triggers a Create Tagg action in a Ruby on Rail s controller . That action sends the parameters to the tagg model in Ruby on Rails where a validation function is triggered that checks all the incoming data.

Table All comments relating to any recording in a given project along with their identifying details as described above are stored in the tagg table . The tagg table may be viewed and edited online or downloaded for use in spreadsheet applications. Additionally the tagg table or any portion thereof is separately exportable. In one embodiment at least the export version of the tagg table is written in a standardized markup language such as XML eXtendible Markup Language so that the tagg table is compatible with video editing programs such as FINAL CUT PRO APPLE INC. or AVID AVID TECHNOLOGY INC. Tewkesbury Mass. . In this way taggs can be used to facilitate the processes of video logging and editing.

The table may be sorted according to various criteria. For example a client may wish to view all of the material related to a particular speaker and next to see which videotapes this material is on. As such this is a valuable tool for editing as it allows people to organize material from various sources.

The table is linked to the transcripts. Clicking on an item in the table will bring to view the corresponding point in the transcript and recording.

A client may place or remove a star next to her favorite segments to assist in editing. Segments may be sorted by the criterion of stars.

If all data is validated the model creates a new row in the MySQL database table . The Ruby on Rails controller calls a built in Prototype JavaScript event which updates the client s browser with the new data without reloading the browser.

If not all data is validated the model calls the Ruby on Rails controller to send back to the client s browser an error message which is displayed by setting the CSS visibility attribute of the error message HTML div tagg to visible. 

The client clicks on a time stamp in the tagg table . This triggers an OnClick JavaScript event that calls the inline html JavaScript function to replace this time stamp with an editable field. This editable field contains four subfields labeled Minute Second and milliseconds or Frames . The client can then manually input a number in one or more of these subfields. The client either hits Enter or Escape .

Hitting Enter or clicking anywhere on the browser submits these parameters to an action in the Ruby on Rails controller that passes these parameters to a model in Ruby on Rails which does a validation of this data. If the date is validated the model updates the entry in the MySQL database table . The action also overrides the original time code in tagg and sends these parameters back to another action in the controller which updates the tagg in the tagg Table in the client s browser without reloading it.

Hitting Escape triggers an onkeypress JavaScript event which triggers a JavaScript function to cancel and remove the editable mode and hence leave the timestamp unmodified. The JavaScript function also restores the display mode .

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

