---

title: Determining device that performs processing of output pictures
abstract: A system and method for determining the characteristics of a device coupled to a client device are disclosed. A method, according to one embodiment, includes driving a display device with a first video output signal formatted according to a first video interface specification; responsive to driving the display device, soliciting user input based on information included in the first video output signal; determining a characteristic of the display device based on the user input; and driving the display device according to the determined characteristic.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09615139&OS=09615139&RS=09615139
owner: TECH 5
number: 09615139
owner_city: Issy les Moulineaux
owner_country: FR
publication_date: 20120403
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application having Ser. No. 10 761 777 filed on Jan. 21 2004 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This disclosure relates in general to the field of television systems and more particularly to the field of interactive television.

With recent advances in digital transmission technology subscriber television systems are now capable of providing much more than the traditional analog broadcast video. In implementing enhanced programming the home communication terminal HCT otherwise known as the set top box has become an important computing device for accessing content services and content within those services and navigating a user through a maze of available services. In addition to supporting traditional analog broadcast video functionality digital HCTs or DHCTs now also support an increasing number of two way digital services such as video on demand and personal video recording.

Typically a DHCT is connected to a cable or satellite or generally a subscriber television system and includes hardware and software necessary to provide the functionality of the digital television system at the user s site. Some of the software executed by a DHCT can be downloaded and or updated via the subscriber television system. Each DHCT also typically includes a processor input output capabilities communication components and memory and is connected to a television set or other display device such as a personal computer. While many conventional DHCTs are stand alone devices that are externally connected to a television a DHCT and or its functionality may be integrated into a television or personal computer or even an audio device such as a programmable radio as will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art.

Technological advances now permit generation and transmission of a variety of higher resolution pictures and video formats. Coincident with the advancing technology of transmission equipment is the technological improvements of the DHCTs and the television set to receive and display a plurality of video formats. There are a wide range of television sets available today including the conventional cathode ray tube CRT styles overhead projection rear projection liquid crystal display based technology and plasma television sets that can be mounted on a wall. These variations in television sets often lead to a wide variety of characteristics that affect processing of a television picture for display. A sourced television or video signal is typically processed for display by considering its characteristics as well as the TV set s characteristics such as the size of the screen the aspect ratio of the display and whether the display implements an interlaced or progressive scan format among other characteristics. Due to the increasing complexity and variation of DHCTs and television sets and thus a multitude of characteristics to consider in processing a video signal connecting a television set to or otherwise communicating with a DHCT and achieving a viewable picture and a desired display quality is often a challenge to even the most technologically adept. Thus a need exists in the industry to address the aforementioned and or other deficiencies and or inadequacies.

The preferred embodiments of the disclosure now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings. The preferred embodiments of the disclosure include systems and methods that provide an interactive session with a user to determine the characteristics of a television set or other display device coupled to a digital home communication terminal DHCT .

Video formats can vary in picture size frame rate and on whether pictures are progressive or interlaced. A progressive picture constitutes all the lines of a frame whereas an interlaced picture has a top field and bottom field of alternating lines to constitute a complete frame. An interlaced picture is displayed during respective field intervals. Video formats can further vary in other attributes or characteristics such as color format color primaries picture width to height aspect ratio and width to height aspect ratio of the individual picture elements or pixels that make up the picture.

As a non limiting example the video formats of a compressed digital television signal processed in a DHCT for display include formats specified by ATSC Advanced Television Systems Committee Digital Television Standard A 54 and include the characteristics described above. An analog television signal such as a NTSC National Television System Committee television signal can be processed for display as well.

As there are multiple video formats for a sourced television signal there are also multiple physical output interfaces or connectors or similarly ports in the DHCT from which a DHCT processed television signal can be output. The processed signal that is output through a physical output interface complies with the format specification of that interface. An interface specification such as a video interface specification can also include mechanisms for providing ancillary data. For example the provision of close caption text within a video signal may be part of the video interface specification.

In addition to possible differences in signaling and physical characteristics video interface specifications can differ in one or more parameters that pertains to the characteristics of the video picture. For instance parameters that can differ in value in distinct video interface specifications include picture size frame rate whether pictures are progressive or interlaced color format colorimetry picture width to height aspect ratio width to height aspect ratio of pixels and if and how ancillary data is provided.

A video interface specification can allow for one or more picture parameters to take different values. For instance the value of a colorimetry parameter may differ according to the video picture s colorimetry. Furthermore a video interface specification can support multiple sets of a combination of parameter values that specify the characteristics of the picture. The parameters that can take different values in the multiple sets of a combination of parameters correspond to characteristics that may include picture size frame rate whether pictures are progressive or interlaced color format colorimetry picture width to height aspect ratio width to height aspect ratio of pixels and if and where ancillary data is carried. For instance the SMPTE Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers specification supports multiple input and output picture formats such as 1920 1080 interlaced or progressive pictures one of various frame rates and RGB or YPbPr encoded pixels. SMPTE 296 specifies 1280 720 progressive pictures for input and output.

A physical output interface or connector can further serve to output video signals corresponding to one or more video format specifications. For instance the physical connector trio used to output component analog video as YPbPr could be configured to output a television signal as an RGB component analog video signal. As another non limiting example a physical output interface can be used to output a television signal compliant to SMPTE 274 or SMPTE 296.

It would be understood by those having ordinary skill in the art that other specifications and or standards can be used that will include the same fewer more or different parameters and yet be considered within the scope of the preferred embodiments of the disclosure. Consequently a DHCT configured in accordance with the preferred embodiments determines the video formats supported by the television set or other display device connected to the DHCT. Responsive to these determinations the DHCT can then set its video output format resolution of graphics overlays and closed caption support accordingly and process sourced television signals accordingly.

The systems and methods of the preferred embodiments of the disclosure will be described in the context of a subscriber television system and particularly a DHCT that is connected to a TV set although other systems that include communication with an interactive display are considered to be within the scope of the disclosure. Additionally reference herein will be made to physical output ports with the understanding that physical output ports include ports connectors and physical interfaces including wireless interfaces. Since the preferred embodiments of the disclosure can be understood in the context of a subscriber television system one such example system is described below with further description of the DHCT and headend components. Following the description of these components is an example method of the preferred embodiments of the disclosure followed by some illustrations of some example interactive sessions of a discovery procedure that can be used to determine the display device characteristics to enable a quality picture to be displayed.

The disclosure may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the disclosure to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore all examples given herein are intended to be non limiting and among others not shown but understood to be within the scope of the disclosure.

The DHCT is typically situated at the residence or place of business or recreation of a user and may be a stand alone unit or integrated into a television set a personal computer or other display devices or an audio device among other media devices. The DHCT receives content video audio and or other data from the headend through the network and in some embodiments provides reverse information to the headend through the network .

The headend receives content from one or more content providers not shown including local providers. The content is processed and or stored and then transmitted to client devices such as the DHCT via the network . The headend may include one or more server devices not shown for providing content to the DHCT . The headend and the DHCT cooperate to provide a user with television services via a television set not shown . The television services may include for example broadcast television services cable television services premium television services video on demand VOD services and or pay per view PPV services among others.

In a typical system the programming services and other information from content providers can be distributed according to a variety of mechanisms. The input signals may be transmitted from sources to the headend via a variety of transmission paths including satellites not shown and terrestrial broadcast transmitters and antennas not shown . The headend can also receive content from a direct feed source via a direct line . Other input sources from content providers include a video camera an analog input source and or an application server . The application server may include more than one line of communication. One or more components such as the analog input source the direct feed source the video camera and the application server can be located external to the headend as shown or internal to the headend as would be appreciated by one having ordinary skill in the art. The signals provided by the content or programming input sources can include a single content instance e.g. a program episode or show or a multiplex that includes several content instances.

The headend generally includes one or more receivers that are each associated with a content source. MPEG Motion Picture Experts Group encoders such as encoder are included for digitally encoding local programming or a real time feed from the video camera or the like. The encoder outputs the respective compressed video and audio streams corresponding to the analog audio video signal received at its input. For example the encoder can output formatted MPEG 2 or MPEG 1 packetized elementary PES streams or transport streams compliant to the syntax and semantics of the ISO International Organization for Standardization MPEG 2 standard respectively. The PES or transport streams may be multiplexed with input signals from a switch receiver and control system . The multiplexing logic processes the input signals and multiplexes at least a portion of the input signals into a transport stream on connection . Analog input source can provide an analog audio video broadcast signal that can be input into a modulator . From the modulator a modulated analog output signal can be combined at combiner along with other modulated signals for transmission into transmission medium . Alternatively analog audio video broadcast signals from the analog input source can be input into the modulator . Alternatively an analog audio video broadcast signal can be input directly from the modulator to the transmission medium . The analog broadcast content instances are transmitted via respective RF channels each assigned for transmission of an analog audio video signal such as NTSC video.

A switch or switches such as asynchronous transfer mode ATM switch provide an interface to an application server . There can be multiple application servers providing a variety of services such as a pay per view service including video on demand VOD a data service an Internet service a network system or a telephone system. Service and content providers may download content to an application server located within the STS . The application server may be located within the headend or elsewhere within the STS such as in a hub. The various inputs into the headend are then combined with the other information from the control system which is specific to the STS such as local programming and control information which can include among other things conditional access information. The headend contains one or more modulators to convert the received transport streams on connection into modulated output signals suitable for transmission over the transmission medium through the network . Each modulator may be a multimodulator including a plurality of modulators such as but not limited to QAM quadrature amplitude modulation modulators that radio frequency modulate at least a portion of the transport streams on connection to become output transport streams on connections . The output signals on connections from the various modulators or multimodulators are combined using equipment such as the combiner for input into the transmission medium which is sent via the in band delivery path to subscriber locations such as the DHCT .

In one embodiment the server also provides various types of data on connections to the headend . The data in part is received by the media access control MAC functions that output MPEG transport packets containing data on connections instead of digital audio video MPEG streams. The control system enables the television system operator to control and monitor the functions and performance of the STS . The control system interfaces with various components via communication link in order to monitor and or control a variety of functions including the frequency spectrum lineup of the programming for the STS billing for each subscriber and conditional access for the content distributed to subscribers. Information such as conditional access information is communicated from the control system to the multiplexing logic where it is multiplexed into a transport stream provided on connection .

Among other things the control system provides input to the modulator for setting operating parameters such as selecting certain content instances or portions of the transport streams for inclusion in one or more output transport stream on connections system specific MPEG table packet organization and or conditional access information. Control information and other data can be communicated to hubs and DHCTs via an in band delivery path or via an out of band delivery path .

The out of band data is transmitted via the out of band forward data signal FDS of the transmission medium by mechanisms such as but not limited to a QPSK quadrature phase shift keying modem array . Two way communication utilizes the reverse data signal RDS of the out of band delivery path . Hubs and DHCTs transmit out of band data through the transmission medium and the out of band data is received in the headend via the out of band RDS . The out of band data is routed through router to the application server or to the control system . The out of band control information includes such information as among many others a pay per view purchase instruction and a pause viewing command from the subscriber location to a video on demand type application server located internally or external to the headend such as the application server as well as any other data sent from the DHCT or hubs all of which will preferably be properly timed.

The control system also monitors controls and coordinates all communications in the subscriber television system including video audio and data. The control system can be located at the headend or remotely. The control system also includes a broadcast file system BFS server that provides content to the DHCT . A broadcast file system preferably carries data formatted in directories and files by the BFS server which is used for producing and transmitting data streams throughout the STS and which provides an efficient means for the delivery of application executables and application content e.g. data to the DHCT . In particular the BFS server and its counterpart a BFS client module in the DHCT are part of the broadcast file system. The BFS server repeatedly sends content to the DHCT over a period of time in a cyclical manner so that the DHCT may access the content as needed.

The transmission medium distributes signals from the headend to the other elements in the subscriber television system such as a hub a node not shown and subscriber locations. The transmission medium can incorporate one or more of a variety of media such as optical fiber coaxial cable and HFC satellite direct broadcast or other transmission media.

The DHCT preferably includes one or more processors such as processor which controls the functions of the DHCT via a real time multi threaded operating system O.S. that enables task scheduling and switching capabilities. The DHCT also includes a tuner system comprising one or more tuners for tuning into a particular television channel or spacing in the radio frequency spectrum to display content and for sending and receiving various types of content to and from the headend . The tuner system can select from a plurality of transmission signals provided by the subscriber television system . The tuner system enables the DHCT to tune to downstream content transmissions thereby allowing a user to receive digital and or analog content delivered in the downstream transmission via the subscriber television system . The tuner system includes in one embodiment an out of band tuner for bi directional QPSK or QAM in some embodiments communication and one or more QAM tuners in band for receiving television signals. Additionally a receiver receives externally generated information such as user inputs or commands from an input device such as a remote control device .

Referring again to the DHCT processes analog and or digital transmission signals for storage in a storage device such as an optical or hard disk drive and or for display to the television set . The DHCT preferably includes a signal processing system and a media engine . One or more of the systems of the signal processing system can be implemented with software a combination of software and hardware or preferably in hardware. The signal processing system includes a demodulating system and a demultiplexer parser . The demodulating system comprises functionality for demodulating an analog transmission signal or a differently modulated signal carrying digital transmission signals or information. For instance the demodulating system can demodulate a signal in the tuned frequency spacing that was modulated among others as a QAM modulated signal that carries compressed digital television signals or information. The demultiplexer parser can include MPEG 2 transport demultiplexing. For example when tuned to frequency spacings carrying a digital transmission signal the demultiplexer parser enables the separation of packets of data corresponding to one or more desired video and audio streams of one or more television signals for further processing. Concurrently the demultiplexer parser precludes further processing of packets in the multiplexed transport stream that are irrelevant or not desired such as packets of data corresponding to other video streams. Thus the components of the signal processing system are capable of QAM demodulation forward error correction and demultiplexing of MPEG 2 transport streams and parsing of elementary streams and packetized elementary streams. Additional components not shown include conditional access components as well as among others an analog video decoder for processing an analog transmission signal and in one implementation a compression engine for converting a decoded analog transmission signal to compressed audio and video streams that are produced in accordance with the syntax and semantics of a designated audio and video coding method such as specified by the MPEG 2 audio and MPEG 2 video ISO standard among others.

The signal processing system outputs packetized compressed streams and presents them as input for storage in the storage device or in other implementations as input to the media engine for decompression by a video decoder or video decompression engine and an audio decoder or audio decompression engine for display on the TV set via the output system and output connections . One having ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the signal processing system will preferably include other components not shown including memory decryptors samplers digitizers e.g. analog to digital converters and multiplexers among other components. Further it will be understood that one or more of the components listed above will interface with the processor and or system memory and or dedicated memory for a particular component to facilitate data transfer and or processing of the video and or audio signal for display and or storage.

The media engine includes the digital video decoder digital audio decoder a memory controller a blitter and the output system . The media engine is capable of graphics data generation and graphics data processing capabilities with functional modules such as the blitter which is a functional 2 D i.e. 2 dimensional DMA Direct Memory Access module often referred to as a blit engine. The functionality in the blitter allows for graphical data or image data stored in a media memory or system memory to be read into the media engine processed and written back i.e. output to memory. The graphical data or image data is read in some predetermined 2 D order such as raster scan order and processed in systematic pipelined fashion through one or more functional elements in the blitter . Processing through the blitter can cause one or more pixels of the input image to be changed to a new value. The output image to memory is representative of a pre specified set of blitter operations.

During the course of program execution the processor writes operation settings and or parameters to registers in the media engine to effect one or more operations in one or more input images to be processed through the blitter . Typically the processor sets the registers prior to invoking the blit operation.

According to the mode set for the blit operation the number of input pixels read from an input image in a blit operation may be less than equal to or more than the number of output pixels produced and written back to memory. According to the mode set in registers a blit operation may comprise of reading multiple input images to produce an output image such as an alpha blending operation on two input images. A blit operation may be also set to produce more than one output image. A blit operation may further be set to process pixels of an input image conditionally e.g. only if they have a certain value or meet certain conditions .

Blitter functionality further includes a scaling capability that can be employed to effect vertical and or horizontal scaling of an input image. Thus an input image can be upscaled or downscaled according to the operational mode and parameters written to the corresponding blitter registers. Such scaling operations can be used to modify the aspect ratio of an input image for example from a 4 by 3 aspect i.e. 4 3 ratio horizontal to vertical ratio to a 16 by 9 i.e. 16 9 aspect ratio. Furthermore the blitter can be set to perform color conversion or alter the color of an input image.

The scaling functionality in the blitter can be performed with sample rate converters or scaling filters of multiple taps and phases as known to those practicing digital signal processing in the state of art.

As described previously the blitter is capable of scaling an input image with a 4 3 aspect ratio to another aspect ratio such as a 16 9 although often at the expense of introducing distortion. The blitter can further be set for the blit operation to crop the boundaries of the input image prior to conducting the scaling operation by simply omitting to read or input parts of the input image from memory. The blitter can also crop the boundaries of the input image it is processing after conducting the scaling operation by simply omitting to write or output parts of the input image to memory. For instance the blitter is capable of processing an image and cropping it by omitting to write to media memory a pre specified top and bottom portion or rectangular sections. The left and right exterior portions or pillars of an input image can be similarly cropped.

As described previously the blitter possesses capability to perform color conversion on each pixel of the input graphical data from one color format to another color format. For example color conversion may comprise converting an input image from an RGB color format to a YPbPr color format or vice versa.

Color conversion may also comprise conversion between color primaries specifications such as from the color primaries specified in ITU R International Telecommunication Union Radiocommunication Recommendation BT.601 to the color primaries specified ITU R Recommendation BT.709. In one embodiment color conversion is employed to create an image that is displayed during an interactive discovery phase to determine the color temperature of a TV set or display attached to the DHCT .

The blitter further possesses capability to perform a color transformation that represents a non linear transfer function from input to output to correct for the perceived intensity i.e. lightness of the type of TV set or display driven by the DHCT . This color transformation could be for the purpose of what is often called by practitioners in the state of the art as gamma correction i.e. correction of perceived intensity or the color transformation can be for other purposes that assist in the TV discovery phase.

All aforementioned blitter operations as well as other blitter operations as a whole or any combination thereof may be employed to create images for use during the TV discovery phase.

The media engine processes and feeds data for output via the output system to a television set . The output system is configured e.g. by the processor to convert processed video and graphical pictures that are composited by the media engine to a video signal for output such signal consistent with the format and signaling specification of a port in the set of physical output ports in the DHCT . As an example the output system includes a digital video encoder DENC that converts reconstructed video data or pictures fed or otherwise received at its input to an analog video signal that is output through a port in the set of physical output ports to drive a TV display connected to the DHCT . In one embodiment the same output video signal is output simultaneously through a plurality of ports in the set of physical output ports .

The set of physical output ports may comprise of physical connectors for which one end of a corresponding physical cable is attached to while the opposite end of the cable is attached to a corresponding physical connector in the TV set or display . A physical connector in the set of physical output ports may also be a wireless transmitter or emitter device that emits the video signal to a corresponding wireless receiver in the TV set . An auxiliary device such as a second TV display may be also be connected between the DHCT and the TV set through a second set of corresponding connectors.

A physical connector in the set of physical output ports may also serve as both input and output as input or as an asymmetrical output input port wherein video and audio are output to the TV set and the TV set s display status and or capabilities characteristics or attributes are input to the DHCT .

Data is fed to one of the physical output ports sourced from the media engine memory or memory in a manner to produce a raster scan of displayed pixels consistent with the interface or port of the physical output ports in which the display type is connected to the DHCT . As is described below the output system under the direction of a display manager and in cooperation with the processor and operating system provides a formatted signal to one or more ports of the physical output ports that are coupled to corresponding inputs not shown at the TV set or at other devices such as a VCR among others. The physical output ports include a RGB port a S Video port a channel 3 4 port a baseband port component analog port and or a YPbPr port. TV signals are formatted by the DHCT according to well known video interface specifications. For example TV signals routed to the baseband port are formatted by the DHCT according to a baseband video format specification. Baseband video can be analog NTSC or PAL or SECAM baseband video. Similarly TV signals routed to the Ch. 3 4 RF radio frequency output port are formatted as RF. The S video port is for S video which is the same as baseband video except that the luminance and chroma are transferred on separate wires. YPrPb is an analog component interface that is popular in early HDTV displays. It couples luminance Y and two color difference signals Pr and Pb to the display device. The same components when digitized are referred to as Y Cr and Cb. Other connections of the physical output ports include a digital video interface DVI to drive a TV set or display that receives non compressed digital TV signals at its input and or an IEEE 1394 interface not shown to drive a TV set or display with a possibly compressed digital TV signal among others. DVI is a digital interface often used to transmit HDTV signals to a display. In some embodiments some interfaces such as the DVI interface or interfaces or ports not shown can be bi directional.

A display buffer not shown in media memory is designated for the displayable graphical data. The memory controller in the media engine grants access to transfer data from system memory or other sections of media memory to the display buffer in a timely way that safeguards from the generation of tear artifacts on the TV display. For instance data transfer can be granted to locations in the display buffer corresponding to locations already passed by the raster scan ordered data fed from the display buffer into the DENC . Thus data written to the display buffer is always behind in raster scan order the display buffer locations read and fed into the output system . Alternatively data can be written to a secondary display buffer not shown also called an off screen or composition buffer and the display buffer and the off screen buffer can be logically swapped for example during the vertical blanking interval of the output TV signal.

Under the arbitration of the memory controller the audio decoder and the video decoder decode the compressed audio and video signals stored in compressed buffers not shown in the media memory to obtain the corresponding audio and video data in an uncompressed format. The reconstructed or uncompressed audio and video data are stored in uncompressed buffers not shown in the media memory . The process of decoding is coordinated by the memory controller such that each of the decoders and are granted access or authorization every time the respective decoder imports data from or exports data to the media memory . Data stored in the decoded buffers may be fed to the output system and the audio output system not shown under the arbitration of the memory controller . The audio output system may be part of the output system and may include digital to analog converters DACs .

The output system for instance includes a DENC that provides a video output via physical output ports while the audio DAC not shown provides an audio output via an audio connection not shown . The video signal which has been converted and possibly composited with graphics is formatted appropriately for output via the output system in cooperation with the display manager operating system and processor in accordance with a video interface type and a video format of the display device that is receiving the video output e.g. high definition television HDTV NTSC or phase alternate line PAL .

The output system comprises capabilities to convert processed video and graphical pictures simultaneously for output. A video display pipeline VPipe in the output system receives or is fed video pictures from the media memory and processes the pictures for output in a systematic fashion. In one embodiment the video display pipeline includes not shown one or more line buffers and vertical sample rate converters to effect vertical resizing horizontal sample rate converters to effect horizontal resizing and or in line color conversion capabilities. Furthermore the video display pipeline may include memory and circuit logic programmable in some embodiments to effect picture de interlacing of interlaced pictures for display as progressive or as larger interlaced pictures. The de interlacing process may involve the access of the media memory to read a plurality of lines from one or more fields corresponding to one or more consecutive video pictures from a TV signal to process them and generate each line of a converted video picture.

A graphics display pipeline GPipe in the output system receives or is fed graphical pictures or data from a display buffer in media memory and processes the images for output in a systematic fashion. The graphics display pipeline may include not shown one or more line buffers and or vertical scalers e.g. sample rate converters to effect vertical resizing. The graphics display pipeline can also have horizontal scalers or sample rate converters to effect horizontal resizing and or in line color conversion capabilities to effect color conversion.

The output system further includes programmable digital logic and control circuitry not shown among other circuitry to overlay or composite the converted graphical picture at the end of the graphics display pipeline over the converted video picture at the end of the video display pipeline or vice versa . The converted graphical picture and the converted video picture may be composited with a common center but do not have to be of the same picture resolution. For instance the converted video picture may span a 1280 720 picture of 16 9 aspect ratio while the graphical picture may span a 960 720 picture of 12 9 or equivalently 4 3 aspect ratio.

The output system further comprises programmable digital logic and control circuitry not shown to enable and disable the video display pipeline to enable and disable the graphics display pipeline and or to alpha blend the spatially corresponding pixels output by the two respective display pipelines to appear as a mix or translucent picture that is output to the TV set . Some pixels in the graphical picture may have a transparent color value.

The output system preferably generates a TV signal for output to the TV set according to the specification of the video interface used for a particular output port . If the video display pipeline is disabled a graphical picture is displayed on the screen of TV set . If the graphical display pipeline is disabled the video picture e.g. from a tuned TV channel from the storage device etc. is displayed on the TV set . In one embodiment the DHCT performs an interactive discovery session to find the TV set display or TV set characteristics by outputting simultaneously a TV signal through a first output port of the physical output ports and another TV signal through a second output port of the physical output ports . For example a first video display pipeline not shown of the video display pipeline in the output system is employed to convert a video picture for output through the aforementioned first output port of the physical output ports and a second video display pipeline not shown of the video display pipeline in the output system is employed to convert the same or different video picture for output through the aforementioned second output port of the physical output ports .

In another embodiment a first video display pipeline not shown of the video display pipeline and a first graphics display pipeline not shown of the graphics display pipeline in the output system are employed during the discovery phase to output a TV signal through an output port e.g. a first output port of the physical output ports as either a video picture or as a composition of a video picture and a graphical picture. A second video display pipeline not shown of the video display pipeline in the output system is employed to output a TV signal through another e.g. a second output port of the physical output ports .

In another embodiment a second graphics display pipeline not shown of the graphics display pipeline is also employed along with a second video display pipeline during the discovery phase to output a TV signal through the second output port as either a video picture or as a composition of a video picture and a graphical picture.

The DHCT can include one or more storage devices such as storage device preferably integrated into the DHCT through an interface e.g. IDE integrated drive electronics or SCSI small computer system interface etc. or externally coupled to the DHCT via a communication port . The communication port can be a wireless or wired interface and is for receiving and or transmitting data to other devices. For instance the DHCT may feature USB Universal Serial Bus Ethernet for connection to a computer IEEE 1394 for connection to media content devices in an entertainment center serial and or parallel ports. The storage device can be optical e.g. read write compact disc but is preferably a hard disk drive. The storage device includes one or more media such as a hard disk . A storage device controller in the storage device of DHCT in cooperation with a device driver and the operating system grants access to write data to or read data from the local storage device . The processor can transfer content e.g. data from memory to the local storage device or from the local storage device to the memory by communication and acknowledgement with the storage device controller .

In one embodiment data stored written and retrieved from the storage device includes one or more images to be processed during a discovery phase to determine the type of TV set or display attached to or otherwise in communication with the DHCT and the characteristics of the TV set or display. Data stored in the storage device can also include one or more sets of audio samples to be played back during the discovery phase. For example the audio samples can be speech instructions or other types of audio. One or more picture sequences can also to be stored and retrieved in the storage device for use during the discovery phase.

In one embodiment data stored written and retrieved from storage device includes one or more images to be displayed as a graphical picture during a discovery phase to determine the type of TV set or display attached to the DHCT and the characteristics of the same. Data stored in the storage device can also include one or more sets of audio samples to be played back during the discovery phase. One or more picture sequences can also to be stored and retrieved in the storage device for use during the discovery phase. The storage device can include graphical pictures and video picture sequences of different characteristics such as pictures of different picture aspect ratios different colorimetry different gammas and or different pixel aspect ratio among other characteristics. Distorted pictures and pictures with for example side blank pillars blank top and bottom rectangular regions or a box with blanked rectangular regions may also be stored in the storage device for employment during the discovery phase.

The DHCT includes memory which includes volatile and or non volatile memory for storing various applications modules and data for execution and use by the processor . Basic functionality of the DHCT is provided by an operating system . Among other things the operating system includes a resource manager that provides an interface to resources of the DHCT such as for example computing resources and a broadcast file system BFS client that cooperates with the BFS server to receive data and or applications that are delivered from the BFS server in a carousel fashion. The operating system further includes one or more device drivers such as device driver that works in cooperation with the operating system to provide operating instructions for communicating with peripheral devices.

Data to be used during the discovery phase can be transmitted to and received by the DHCT as one or more files using the broadcast file system via BFS server and BFS module . Data can further be stored in the storage device prior to exercising the discovery phase.

One or more programmed software applications herein referred to as applications are executed by utilizing the computing resources in the DHCT . Note that an application typically includes a client part and a server counterpart that cooperate to provide the complete functionality of the application. The applications may be resident in memory or the storage device or stored in a combination of memory and storage device . Applications stored in memory or storage device are executed by the processor e.g. a central processing unit or digital signal processor under the auspices of the operating system . Data required as input by an application is stored in memory or the storage device or a combination and read by the processor as needed during the course of the application s execution.

Input data may be stored in memory by a secondary application or other source either internal or external to the DHCT or possibly anticipated by the application and thus created with the application at the time it was generated as a software application. Data generated by an application is stored in memory by the processor during the course of the application s execution or if required transferred to the storage device from memory by the processor during the course of the application s execution. The availability of data location of data whether in memory or in the local storage device and the amount of data generated by a first application for consumption by a secondary application is communicated by messages. Messages are communicated through the services of the operating system such as interrupt or polling mechanisms or data sharing mechanisms such as semaphores.

An application referred to as a navigator is resident in memory . The navigator provides a navigation framework for services provided by the DHCT . For instance the navigator includes core functionality such as volume and configuration settings. The navigator preferably handles signals invoked from the channel navigation buttons on the remote control device .

The memory also contains a platform library . The platform library is a collection of utilities useful to applications such as a timer manager a compression manager a configuration manager an HTML parser a database manager a widget toolkit a string manager and other utilities not shown . These utilities are accessed by applications via application programming interfaces APIs as necessary so that each application does not have to contain these utilities. Two components of the platform library that are shown in are a window manager and a service application manager SAM client . Note that in some embodiments one or more of the platform library components may be resident in the operating system . The window manager provides a mechanism for implementing the sharing of the display device screen regions and user input. The window manager in the DHCT is responsible for as directed by one or more applications implementing the creation display and de allocation of the limited DHCT screen resources. It allows multiple applications to share the screen by assigning ownership of screen regions or windows.

The window manager also maintains among other things a user input registry in memory so that when a user enters a key or a command via the remote control device or another input device such as a keyboard or mouse the user input registry is accessed to determine which of various applications running on the DHCT should receive data corresponding to the input key and in which order.

The SAM client is a client component of a client server pair of components with the server component being located in the headend typically in the control system although not shown. A SAM database i.e. structured data such as a database or data structure in memory includes a data structure of services and a data structure of channels that are created and updated by the headend . Herein database will refer to a database structured data or other data structures as is well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. The SAM client also interfaces with the resource manager to control resources of the DHCT . Many services can be defined using the same application component with different parameters. Examples of services include without limitation and in accordance with one implementation presenting television programs available through a WatchTV application pay per view events available through a PPV application not shown digital music not shown media on demand available through an MOD application not shown and an interactive program guide IPG available through an IPG application .

In the example DHCT depicted in memory also includes a web browser application for providing web browsing services and a personal video recording PVR application for providing personal video recording services. It should be clear to one with ordinary skill in the art that these applications are not limiting and merely serve as examples for this present embodiment of the disclosure. These applications and others provided by the cable system operator are top level software entities on the network for providing services to the user.

An executable program or algorithm corresponding to an operating system OS component or to a client platform component or to an application or to respective parts thereof can reside in and execute out of memory and or the storage device . Likewise data input into or output from any executable program can reside in memory and or the storage device .

As described above there are many possible video formats that are received by the DHCT and converted to a television signal compliant with the appropriate video interface specification for the respective port of the physical output ports . For example ATSC includes 18 different video formats which include parameters for the amount of active lines total lines horizontal pixels e.g. pixels per line aspect ratio e.g. 16 9 or 4 3 vertical rate frame rate scan type progressive or interlaced and type of TV set e.g. SDTV or HDTV that a particular format is best suited for. For a TV set capable of sourcing a TV signal through more than one video interface or with a video interface that supports more than one video format the nature of the picture displayed on a TV screen or other display screen can vary depending on what format the DHCT configures the output signal e.g. output from the output ports to the TV set to be. Accurate assumptions about the characteristics of the TV set or display can be made based on the nature of the picture displayed in response to the video format of the television signal fed to the TV set from the DHCT . Although the DHCT does not know what type of TV set it is connected to nor the characteristics of that TV set it can output some predefined video formats and query the user about what he or she sees. Based on the response of the user not only can the DHCT determine the characteristics of the TV set connected e.g. aspect ratio color temperature gamma characteristics etc. but also provide for a fine tuning of the picture quality that improves what the user sees. Note that in some embodiments some of these characteristics may be input by the user in response to a query by the DHCT e.g. the DHCT can prompt questions on the TV display such as what type of TV do you have year made model number manufacturer etc. .

Even if characteristics are input by a user a discovery phase may still be employed where for example a TV set has multiple interfaces to receive the output TV signal from the DHCT and the user may have pre configured the TV set to a user specific set of preferences. For instance a user may opt to pre configure a TV set with a physical screen e.g. the glass portion of the screen screen portion of a projection TV etc. having a 4 3 aspect ratio using the TV set s settings to display a 16 9 TV signal received from the DHCT in one of multiple configurable displayable ways. That is the user can set a 16 9 TV signal to be displayed as for example a letterboxed picture e.g. blank top and bottom portions envelope picture as a distorted picture or as a full screen picture without distortion but with the left and right most portions cropped.

An interactive session s or application s that serves as a discovery phase according to an embodiment of the disclosure is executed upon power up or at other times such as when the user hooks up a different TV set to the DHCT to determine the capabilities of the TV set coupled to the DHCT . The discovery phase can be viewed as comprising two phases. Phase I includes determining how the TV set can be driven. The TV set can be a high definition television HDTV set a national television systems committee NTSC set or a PAL set. It is in phase I that the sourced TV signal received at the tuner system of the DHCT is mapped to a corresponding output of the DHCT and thus corresponding input of a TV set . For example through one or more interactive sessions with the user the DHCT or user may decide that when the DHCT is tuned to SD standard definition or NTSC channels the signal is to be processed and fed through the baseband port or S video port of the physical output ports . Similarly if the DHCT is tuned to an HD channel the DHCT or user may determine that the signal is to be processed and fed through the YPbPr port or the DVI port of the physical output ports . Phase II includes determining additional characteristics of the TV set which serves as a calibration process. For example it is in phase II that the color temperature gamma characteristics and or de interlacing characteristics or capabilities among others can be verified or determined.

Referring to and with continued reference to step includes receiving a request to commence discovery. The discovery phase can be invoked using a dedicated key or button in the remote control device such as the TV capabilities query button . An interactive session can also be accomplished through a quick settings user interface screen e.g. not shown but evoked by the user selecting the quick settings button or through a general settings screen e.g. not shown but evoked by the user navigating through menu items upon pressing the menu button .

Step includes converting a video or picture sequence according to a defined video interface specification. Representative pictures or video sequences that include the different video formats in ATSC A 54 or SCTE for example which vary in parameters such as aspect ratio e.g. 4 3 versus 16 9 TV type e.g. SDTV versus HDTV among others are used during the discovery phase. The video formats are processed for output by appropriately exercising conversion capabilities in the TV output system according to defined categories of parameters for a video output interface and to provide some efficiency in the driving of outputs. The pictures or video sequences and or audio can be provided by the DHCT as a result of real time or time shifted e.g. buffered to the storage device conversion of a TV signal received from the network . Preferably picture or video sequence samples of various parameters are stored in the storage device and provided by the DHCT during the discovery phase. For example these samples can be downloaded to the storage device upon receipt via the BFS module or downloaded by the DHCT manufacturer. Additionally graphics video or a combination of graphics and video can be provided during the discovery phase according to the mechanisms described in association with .

Step includes driving one or more display devices through the physical output port with a video format corresponding to the video interface specification to which the conversion in step was implemented. The DHCT cycles through each video format in response to the user selecting the cycle button or in alternative embodiments automatically for a defined interval of time requesting input from the user for each format. The display manager in cooperation with the media engine the operating system memory e.g. memory and or media memory and the processor preferably is responsible for cycling the various video formats through the output connections to the inputs of the TV set . The cycle is preferably set from the highest resolution to the lowest resolution. For example the DHCT may output 1080i first and then output 720p then 480p and then 480i. Once a user enters input it is assumed that the TV set is to be driven at the highest resolution format to minimize degradation of the highest resolution TV set that is sourced. Driving the TV set with a common video format simplifies graphics overlay management by the display manager and operating system as it shortens development cycle and reduces provisions required to support legacy applications. In some embodiments the DHCT can transmit audio instructions in addition to or in lieu of the video and or graphics data.

Step includes soliciting a user response based on what is displayed on the TV screen. In one embodiment the display manager in cooperation with the processor can cause the generation and presentation of various GUI screens to solicit help from a user to determine the type of inputs that are supported by the TV set . One purpose for driving the inputs of the TV set is to present a picture on the screen of the TV set along with a GUI screen that enables the user to comment on whether he or she sees any picture on the display. Note that in other embodiments audio instructions e.g. such as speech instructions can be used alone or in combination with graphics and or video to solicit user feedback and or provide instruction which would facilitate the determination of how the TV set can be driven.

Step includes determining whether user input was received within a defined period of time defined by a fixed or programmable threshold. The failure to receive an inputted response from the user may indicate that the user did not see a screen e.g. there may not be a connection made by the user or the particular video format cycled through the output port is not supported . If a video format applied to the TV set input was not compatible with the TV set e.g. a video format that is not compatible with the scan format or other characteristics of the TV set or no connection has been made between the DHCT port and the corresponding TV set port an out of synch picture is likely to be displayed. If the DHCT determines that no user input is received within a predetermined or defined period of time of driving the TV set with a signal having a prescribed video format the DHCT automatically selects a new port or another video format for the same output port e.g. if more than one video format is supported by the selected output port step and repeats the process starting at step . In some embodiments selection of the next port is not automatically initiated until a user enters input regardless of whether instructions or other messaging on the screen is viewable or not thus omitting the determination step step . For example instructions in a written user s guide or by phone can require a user to enter one type of input e.g. the cycle button when the video is out of synch e.g. instructions do not appear and another type of input e.g. the select button when the displayed picture and or instructions are coherent e.g. observable and or legible . In some embodiments without the automatic feature the determination step may still be employed.

The programmable threshold that defines the period of time for cycling through the video formats and or output ports may be programmed and stored in NVM of the DHCT . Alternatively the threshold value can be stored in the storage device of the DHCT or in NVM not shown in the remote control device . Programming of the threshold value can be performed at a manufacturing facility by a cable operator from the headend while the DHCT is at a subscriber s or user s premise or by the subscriber or user.

If a GUI is viewable suggesting that the cycled video format is both established through a valid connection to the TV set and that the TV set can be driven using that applied video format step includes mapping the video interface specification and corresponding port with a parameter or parameters of the TV signal video sequence or picture. In other words the DHCT stores in memory e.g. media memory memory and or the storage device the parameter s or settings required to operate the video display pipeline and or graphics display pipeline the functions in the output system and the output ports to effect the processing and output of a TV signal according to the parameters of each possible TV signal format that DHCT is capable of receiving via its tuner system or an input or communication port. In addition to storing the parameters and settings required to process and output each respective TV signal format the DHCT stores a table not shown that associates each possible TV signal format to one or more designated output ports . For example for TV signals that have parameters that indicate the signal originated in or is otherwise compliant to an HD transmission medium the DHCT determines the parameters of the received TV signal by for example processing information in the signal and comparing the information with information stored in the SAM database . The SAM database may include stored information in an association table not shown that maps the TV signal to a designated output port. The DHCT then converts the TV signal and drives the converted TV signal through the designated port e.g. YPbPr port of the physical output ports .

For formats where a display is generated and viewable by the user additional formats can be presented through this interactive session to fine tune what the user is viewing. Step includes applying test sequences for phase II discovery. For example one category of driving the TV set inputs can be according to the scan format e.g. interlaced versus progressive . Within an interlaced category there are multiple video formats e.g. with differences in resolution e.g. 1080i 480i etc. aspect ratio among other parameters . If the TV set has the capability to only receive an input with a progressive scan format then driving it with an interlaced scan format may result in no displayable screen e.g. a scrambled picture thus negating the need to drive the TV set inputs with other video formats under the category of interlaced. The test sequences are received from memory in a manner as described above for step and processed e.g. altered in the blitter in cooperation with the display manager and the processor . In one embodiment the samples are altered in a manner that causes images on the TV screen to be distorted and or appear with a variety of features e.g. cropped and or or omissions of features and or accentuations in features or conditions e.g. taking a circle and expanding in a vertical or horizontal orientation to create an ellipse . By altering the samples a display screen comprising in one embodiment a GUI and an altered image sample can be presented that enables the DHCT to determine how the TV set reacts to or presents these altered images based on the user response. Some of the samples stored in the storage device can be altered samples or in some embodiments the alterations can be implemented in the media engine or via a combination of stored altered samples and processing in the media engine .

Step includes soliciting a user response based on what is displayed on the TV screen. Based on the video format selected and the alteration imposed in step there is an expected effect on the picture presented on the TV screen and this expected effect is used to generate the appropriate question to the user on the display screen to help determine the characteristic of the TV set the question was geared to find. Soliciting a user response can also include requesting user preferences. For example the user may be presented with alternate pictures having different colors and asked to choose a preferred color.

Step includes determining characteristics of the display device based on the solicited user response. Running through interactive screens shown in and other screens not shown and soliciting answers to the questions presented in these screens enables the DHCT to determine the capabilities of the TV and allows the user alternate display options of video and graphics throughout the course of viewing the picture in the display screen of the TV set . Hence the user has a mechanism for selecting a video format for the video and graphic that the viewer can simply invoke for different sourced video signals. This allows the user the flexibility to display a sourced picture of a certain aspect ratio to the aspect ratio of the TV set or in a manner the user chooses. For example the preferred embodiments of the disclosure allows the viewer to expand a sourced 4 3 content out to the edges of a 4 3 HDTV i.e. full screen rather than a boxed in display .

Step includes storing the TV set display characteristics. One or more non volatile memory NVM bits not shown in memory or the characteristics can be stored in the storage device are assigned to denote a default value never set or set . Once set the capabilities of the connected TV set are retained in NVM . If the user employs a different TV set in the future the interactive sessions of the preferred embodiments of the disclosure can be re entered via the TV capabilities query button general settings quick settings front key input on the DHCT or via other buttons on the remote control device using key sequences as explained in a user s manual.

Step includes selecting another port or another format for the same port and then the discovery process is repeated again beginning at step .

Therefore during an interactive session that requests input from the user the DHCT cycles through each video format requesting input from the viewer rather than merely terminating when a first video format category suitable for driving the TV set is determined Hence the input from the user preferably does not cease after the user acknowledges being able to view a first viewable display screen but rather after completion of cycling through all or substantially all video formats.

Note that in some embodiments phase I can be implemented for all ports and completed before commencing phase II.

Also in some embodiments the user may decide on which output port of the physical output ports to output each possible picture format of the input incoming or tuned TV signal. For instance a user may express his or her preferences in interactive sessions during the TV capability discovery phase to output an incoming TV video signal through an output port capable of outputting the scan rate equivalent to the scan rate of the incoming TV signal. Furthermore the user may decide through the interactive sessions to select an output port for each respective TV channel in the channel line up assuming that the user knows the picture format of each channel or that the interactive session displays information on the screen containing the picture format associated with each channel to the user. User preferences are stored in memory for example memory and or the storage device .

The picture format associated with each channel may be known a priori. For example the picture format may be obtained or inferred by the processor from the record of each program in an EPG or IPG database not shown residing in memory or from information associated with each service or TV channel in the SAM tables e.g. SAM database residing in memory . Alternatively the DHCT may determine the picture rate for each TV channel service or program by tuning to each channel in the channel line up. Since the picture rate for a TV channel may change through the course of time the user may further prefer to allow the DHCT to dynamically switch output ports according to the incoming TV signal s picture format.

The discovery phase retains e.g. by saving in memory the output formats or modes that the DHCT is capable of outputting. A user may opt to eliminate one or more output capability from the plurality of output capabilities found during the discovery phase. During normal TV watching operation the user has access to select any of the retained outputting modes e.g. via quick settings or a remote key . The DHCT may be configured to output in one picture format e.g. 1080i or to dynamically adjust to output according to the picture format of the incoming TV signal. Regardless of whether the DHCT outputs in a fixed format indefinitely the user has access to the list of retained output modes and select an alternate output mode from the list.

In one embodiment wherein the output mode is fixed to a first picture format once the user selects an alternate output format from the list of retained output modes the DHCT continues to output the alternate output format indefinitely until the user once again selects another output mode e.g. possibly the first picture format . In an alternate embodiment when the user tunes to a different channel the DHCT discontinues outputting the alternate output format by reverting to output the first picture format.

As is shown in a set of display screens tailored for each combination of video format and display aspect ratio are generated for each respective video format during phase II discovery. Continuing with the example referenced in association with within the generalized category of a respective scan mode e.g. progressive versus interlaced the picture is output in multiple ways to find out further capabilities of the TV set . This process includes outputting different aspect ratios such as 16 9 4 3 or others as well as embedding a graphical picture within the picture e.g. letterbox or sidebars . The user may have set the TV set to display letterbox for example or there may be a default setting. The user may also configure settings in the DHCT for handling the aspect ratio in a predetermined manner. Thus there may be cumulative operations performed by the DHCT and the TV set that cause distortions of objects to be amplified e.g. a ball on the screen may be stretched by operations in the DHCT and then further stretched due to operations in the TV set . Images stored in the storage device for example may be presented at the TV set in a distorted and non distorted manner to determine these settings. The phase II discovery process also includes outputting graphics with alternate lines displaced or shifted by varied amounts to determine if the TV set has a de interlacer and if so what is its quality. Graphical objects in the graphical picture may represent certain geometrical shapes subjected to any of a plurality of 2 D or 3 D transformations that include rotation scaling shear and perspectives among others that when coupled to alternate line displacements of shift that emulate motion from an interlaced camera help identify the performance of the de interlacing capabilities of a de interlacer. For example the DHCT may test the quality of the de interlacer of the TV set to determine if de interlacing functionality in the DHCT should be bypassed due to superior quality of the de interlacer in the TV set . De interlacer assessment may be further refined to determine which of two de interlacers performs best for analog signals for interlaced SD pictures received as compressed digital signals and or for interlaced HD pictures received as compressed digital signals. Note that a TV set may feature multi synch support. For example an HDTV set may support multiple video formats at its input. In such event it may be desirable to drive the HDTV set with the native scan format of the sourced input signal to minimize picture degradation.

Other questions can be presented to determine other characteristics. For example input can be requested from the user on whether visible flicker or certain artifacts are visible to determine if the TV set has an internal line doubler i.e. de interlacer or to assess the quality of the line doubler versus that of the line doubler of the DHCT . Additional questions can be presented to the user to provide user preferences on border color or shade e.g. the letterbox may be available with different shades of gray to cause the picture brightness to vary and thus enhance the viewer experience .

Additional embodiments can be used for this interactive session between the user and the DHCT . In one embodiment synthesized audio can be played while cycling through the video formats instructing the user to enter input without any dependence on a displayed GUI. In another embodiment synthesized audio can be played with a displayed GUI in each cycled video format and in some embodiments synthesized audio is repeated if the user s input is not received after an elapsed time greater than a predetermined threshold.

Some embodiments may employ buttons on the DHCT e.g. light emitting diodes or LEDs such as digital display in lieu of or in addition to the display screens. For example since some HDTVs and projectors have common inputs that may not accept 1080i signals the LEDs may be used where on screen graphics is not readable e.g. if the scan is not correct . Possible scan values include 1080i 720p 480p and 480i. When NVM values are cleared during staging e.g. initial installation the scan value from a staging configuration file may be set. If the staging configuration file does not contain the scan value parameter 1080i will be set. Most HDTVs will accept the 1080i scan format so that may be the default value. Other settings may be available using a front panel settings key not shown . For example by holding down a settings key for a predetermined period of time a message light may blink and the LED digits may reveal the current setting. In some embodiments a scan barker not shown may be displayed. Pressing the settings key again may cycle the settings.

The display manager can be implemented in hardware software firmware or a combination thereof. In the preferred embodiment s the display manager is implemented in software or firmware that is stored in a memory and that is executed by a suitable instruction execution system. If implemented in hardware as in an alternative embodiment the display manager may be implemented with any or a combination of the following technologies which are all well known in the art a discrete logic circuit s having logic gates for implementing logic functions upon data signals an application specific integrated circuit ASIC having appropriate combinational logic gates a programmable gate array s PGA a field programmable gate array FPGA etc.

The display manager which comprises an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device such as a computer based system processor containing system or other system that can fetch the instructions from the instruction execution system apparatus or device and execute the instructions. In the context of this document a computer readable medium can be any means that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer readable medium can be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a nonexhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection electronic having one or more wires a portable computer diskette magnetic a random access memory RAM electronic a read only memory ROM electronic an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory electronic an optical fiber optical and a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM optical . Note that the computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure particularly any preferred embodiments are merely possible examples of implementations merely setting forth a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosures. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiments of the disclosure without departing substantially from the spirit of the principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of the disclosure and present disclosure and protected by the following claims.

