---

title: Sea surface vessel recovery and fueling system
abstract: An apparatus for securing and fueling a surface water vessel at a floating receptacle that is towed by a parent ship. The surface water vessel may be a manned or an unmanned surface vehicle, for example. According to the invention, the surface water vessel includes a retractable probe for securing the water vessel to the floating receptacle and also for receiving fuel from the parent ship via the floating receptacle. The floating receptacle has first and second arms pivotally attached to a mounting block, forming a substantially V-shape having an adjustable apex angle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08568076&OS=08568076&RS=08568076
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08568076
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120621
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application 61 568 206 filed Dec. 8 2011 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This application is related to U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 12 537 376 filed Aug. 7 2009 which is a continuation in part of U.S. Non Provisional patent application Ser. No. 12 079 063 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 020 505 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The following description was made in the performance of official duties by employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the claimed invention may be manufactured used licensed by or for the United States Government for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon.

The following description relates generally to a method and apparatus for fueling a surface water vessel and in particular an arrangement for the contemporaneous latching and fueling of a surface water vessel at a location that is remote from a parent ship.

The recovery of smaller surface water vessels such as manned or unmanned surface water vessels USVs by larger parent ships is an emerging technology. Once recovered by the parent ship servicing operations such as fueling may be performed. Typically the recovery of a smaller vessel is accomplished by driving the smaller vessel alongside a parent ship and lifting by davit into the ship. Alternatively the smaller water vessel may be driven up a ramp into the stern of the larger ship.

Traditional methods of capturing smaller surface water vessels can cause damage to the hull of the smaller vessel. For example some USVs weigh about 20 000 lbs and are made from materials such as aluminum. A capturing method that for example requires the USV to be driven into a parent ship or be lifted and dropped onto the parent ship can cause damage to the aluminum hull resulting in expensive repairs. The prior art does not teach an apparatus that automatically guides latches and simultaneously fuels a smaller surface water vessel at a floating receptacle remote from the parent ship.

In one aspect the invention is a fueling system for securing and fueling a water vessel at a floating receptacle. The fueling system includes a parent ship for supplying fuel and a floating receptacle remote from the parent ship with the floating receptacle having a substantially V shape with a substantially V shaped aperture. In this aspect the floating receptacle has a first arm a second arm and a mounting member wherein the first and second arm are adjustably attached to the mounting member so that the mounting member the first arm and the second arm form the substantially V shape and substantially V shaped aperture. The mounting member is at the apex of the substantially V shape and the adjustably attached first and second arms allows for an adjustable apex angle . In this aspect the mounting member further includes a receiver. According to the invention the fueling system also includes a fuel conduit for transporting fuel from the parent ship to the floating receptacle and a water vessel. The water vessel has a probe for positioning within the receiver of the floating receptacle to contemporaneously latch the water vessel to the receiver and to receive fuel via the fuel conduit at the floating receptacle. In this aspect the fueling system also has a towing bridle having a plurality of tow lines the tow bridle attached to and extending between the parent ship and the floating receptacle maintaining a towing tension on the first and second arms of the floating receptacle so that the adjustable apex angle is at a maximum angle. The fueling system also includes an inter arm line connected to each of the first and second arms for restricting the adjustable apex angle at the maximum angle and for reducing the angle to an angle commensurate with the shape of the water vessel as the water vessel enters into the substantially V shaped aperture thereby automatically guiding the water vessel towards the receiver.

As shown in the upper and lower hatch covers and are fitted to upper and lower mounting brackets and respectively. As shown in the upper mounting bracket is pivotally connected to a hull frame portion by means of pivot which enables the opening and closing of the upper hatch cover . Also illustrated is the lower mounting bracket which is also pivotally connected to the frame portion by means of a pivot enabling the opening and closing of the lower hatch cover .

The geometry and juxtaposition of the linkages and and the corresponding pivot members and and the linear actuator mounting pivots and are such that the linear actuator reaches its maximum length just as the probe is fully deployed. The aft and forward links are positioned such that the corresponding pivot members and are nearly coplanar coincident with the linear actuator reaching its maximum length. In this configuration the vast majority of fore and aft forces imposed on the probe during its engagement with the different elements of the floating receptacle such as the receiver for example are transmitted through the linkages and pivot members outlined above to the interface mount and to the host vessel bow section and finally to the host vessel hull structure without significantly affecting the linear actuator .

The arrangement as illustrated in enables a light weight low power and inexpensive actuator to be employed and yet the system can still withstand the engagements loads that can potentially be many thousand times more than that required to extend and retract the probe . In addition the links and their complementary pivot members and have configurations such that the linear actuator is either maximally extended when the probe is fully extended and minimally extended when the probe is fully retracted. In this embodiment the foregoing linkage is such that the extension or retraction of the probe and linear actuator occur simultaneously and as such no limit switches are required to stop the linear actuator when a limit is reached simplifying the control to that of on off with reversing polarity to change direction.

The mounting member includes a hinge that pivots about an axis which in the illustration of extends perpendicularly out of the page. In operation on calm water this axis is substantially equal to a vertical axis. The hinge allows movement of the elongated arms and relative to one another forming an apex region having an apex angle between the arms and . The angle between the arms can range from zero with both elongated arms parallel to one another to an angle of about 15 degrees to about 25 degrees. This hinged structure allows the elongated arms and to be folded together to a zero angle for shipping or storage to minimize the volume required and when deployed the arms and may be opened to an angle of about 15 degrees to about 25 degrees. In an embodiment of the invention as shown in the angle between elongated arms and is limited by an intra arm line that is connected at one end to the port arm and at the other end to the starboard arm . In operation the intra arm line is attached at bottom portions of the arms and and drags in the sea as the floating receptacle is towed behind the parent ship .

In another embodiment of the invention the value of the angle between the arms and could be constrained by a mechanical stop incorporated into the mounting member . In still another embodiment the value of the angle between the arms and could be mechanically controlled by a powered system incorporated into the mounting member . Such a system could vary the angle throughout the usage cycle and optimize same for each phase of acquisition engagement fuel transfer and release.

According to an embodiment of the invention the tow bridle may be configured such that the center tow line is just slack or only lightly tensioned when towing and in operation the majority of towing tension is passed from tow line through the elastic element on both port and starboard forward tow lines and to the aft tow lines and via outriggers and . Towing tension will spread the elongated arms and which will rotate symmetrically about hinge to an included angle that is constrained by the intra arm line . As outlined above each arm and may be an air filled chamber such as a sponson. If a larger included angle is desired the operator could lengthen the intra arm line . The tendency for hydrodynamic drag to close the elongated arms and is more than offset by the moment created by the towing tension in lines and acting through outrigger on the port side and similarly by lines and acting through outrigger on the starboard side. The included angle must be set via intra arm line to a value that presents an aperture that is wide enough for the surface water vessel to reliably find its way into the aperture .

During fueling operations the surface water vessel which may be a manned or unmanned surface vessel is first secured and latched by the floating receptacle . After being properly latched fuel is fed to the water vessel through the probe . As shown in this process begins when the bow of the surface water vessel is directed into the substantially V shaped receiving portion while moving generally in the direction . However securing and latching can only be accomplished if the probe is properly aligned with the receiver . The water vessel is guided towards the receiver by the elongated arms and which have the substantially V shaped arrangement with the receiver at the apex of the V. Thus the arms and funnel the surface water vessel towards the receiver as outlined below.

As the surface vessel enters the aperture the water vessel encounters the intra arm line as this occurs. The keel of the surface water vessel will press the intra arm line deeper into the water. When this occurs the arms and will be pulled together reducing the included angle until the arms and make physical contact with the surface water vessel . At this point the surface vessel and elongated arms are in contact with one another and forward motion of the surface vessel in a direction relative to the floating receptacle substantially in the direction of arrow will force the floating receptacle into the sea and lift the water vessel from the sea. This will gradually increase the magnitude of contact force between water vessel and the arms and of the floating receptacle . The increased contact force will tend to dampen relative motion and force the surface vessel and sled into phase in heave pitch sway roll and yaw. In this way the floating receptacle adjusts to the size and shape of vessels such as surface water vessel which may vary.

The surface water vessel will reduce its propulsive machinery throttle setting after the probe connects to the receiver . Once this occurs the surface water vessel will be towed by the probe . The increase in towing tension in combination with the reduction of the included angle between elongated arms and will stretch the elastic in port and starboard forward tow lines. The elastic will elastically elongate until the center tow line becomes tight.

Also a set of elastically mounted strips form a top connecting section between the port section and the starboard section that act to restrict the relative pitch between the surface water vessel and the floating receptacle . The elastic mounting of these strips permit them to initially guide and then be displaced by the rake of the hull of the water vessel as connection is made between the probe and the receiver .

During fueling operations as shown in the bow of the water vessel is directed between the elongated arms and of the floating receptacle until the probe is inserted into the receiver . Once the front body portion of the probe is engaged by the receiver in accordance with fueling operations the surface water vessel may throttle down in order to be towed by the parent ship . In embodiments in which the water vessel is a USV the throttling down may be done automatically or remotely and in embodiments in which the water vessel is manned an operator may control the throttling. Because of the throttling down the front body portion is pulled forward. When the tension applied to the front body portion of the probe exceeds a pre load on the compression spring the front body portion will slide forward on the spool . This opens an annular space between the valve seal and the interior mating surface at the front body portion at the tip of the probe tip . The opening of this annular space opens the probe fuel port that extends from within the front body portion through the ball to the back body portion . This allows fuel to be pumped through the probe . The fuel port remains open as long as sufficient towing tension exists. The forward travel of the front body portion is constrained by the insert . According to this embodiment the load path for towing tension starts at an external groove at the front body portion then to the insert then to the spool then to the ball then to the ball retainer then to the back body portion of the probe . Because of the spring arrangement outlined above the valve automatically closes when the tension is lost.

The arrangement of the elements of the probe as outlined above also provides the probe with an overall flexibility. As outlined above and as shown in showing the probe in a deployed orientation the front body portion of the probe rides on the spool at the front where the spool contacts the interior of the front body portion near an O ring seal and at the back where the insert contacts the spool . The front body portion can move axially on the spool over a short range that is constrained in the forward direction by the insert contacting the spool just behind the o ring seal . In the aft direction the front body portion is constrained by contact with the ball retainer . The spring has a relaxed length that is greater than the distance from the insert to the O ring surface of the spool . According to one embodiment this pre load is about 200 pounds.

The pre load of the spring serves to keep the above described tension actuated valve in the closed position. The pre load also serves to hold the aft surface of the front body portion axis against the flat front surface of the ball retainer which is normal to the back body portion and so the front body portion is held parallel to and axially coincident with the back body portion when deployed. The front body portion will remain in this position unless a force is applied to the front body portion with a component normal to the longitudinal axis of the probe that will cause the probe tip to rotate about the center of the ball by sliding forward on the spool and thereby additionally compressing the spring . In one embodiment of the invention the front body portion will snap back into the configuration where it is parallel to and axially coincident with the back body portion when the above described force normal to the longitudinal axis of the probe is applied to the front body portion is removed. The spring constant and preload force diameter of the front body portion and juxtaposition of the pivot axes of the ball all combine to characterize the flexibility of the front body portion during a connection with the receiver .

The spool also includes a weak link feature that minimizes the spilling of fuel if there is a failure in the apparatus. The spool has a prismatic cross section between the O ring seal and ball except for a tapered section in the aft. The taper serves two purposes. First the taper provides clearance to enable a full 45 degrees of rotation of the ball when assembled as shown. Second the taper creates a frangible link where the spool can fail when and if the system is forced to bend more than the 45 degrees provided for in this embodiment. This failure is an integral part of this embodiment and is meant to serve as a mechanical fuse that will prevent further failures in the surface water vessel in the event of a collision or other accident. Another feature of above described weak link is that if the spool fails due to a collision or other event the ball will be left in a position rotated 45 degrees from the axis of the back body portion of the probe and as such the probe fuel port will be blocked minimizing the amount of fuel that is spilled and the contamination of fuel by sea water.

The spring closed valve arrangement is opened by towing tension after the probe has been successfully captured. In operation when the front body portion of the probe is engaged and gripped by the balls within the receiver as outlined above the surface water vessel backs off its throttle and is subsequently towed by the probe . When the towing tension exceeds the preload in the spring the assembly comprising the receiver housing piston gripper balls and bracket will move as a unit sliding aft along the receiver spool . This will open an annular space between the receiver valve seal and the mating surface on the bracket . This opens the fuel passage which extends from the annular space via the openings and into the interior of the receiver spool . This allows fuel to be pumped through the receiver . The valve opening is constrained by an insert . The seal between the probe and receiver is secured by the elastomeric gasket that is secured in the slot . As shown the slot is circular and has a trapezoidal cross section. The load path for the towing force begins at the front body portion and is directed to the balls to the piston to pressurized oil not shown behind the piston to the housing to the bracket via threaded fasteners not shown to the insert to the spool and to the yoke .

In operation the probe will be guided into the opening of the receiver . As stated above the respective outer and inner surfaces of the probe and the receiver have a complimentary relationship. The steep tapered conical portion of the front body portion of the probe will match the conical section entrance of the receiver and will guide the front body portion of the probe further into the receiver opening when the surface water vessel is advanced. If the contact force between the front body portion and the receiver conical surface exceeds a predetermined preload the front body portion will articulate and enter the receiver opening with its centerline at a non zero angle to a centerline axis of the receiver . To avoid jamming and or binding the front body portion of the probe is designed with the aforementioned external spherical portion . This spherical form permits the front body portion to assume any angular orientation within the receiver opening without binding even with close tolerances.

As the front body portion of the probe is further advanced into the receiver opening the opening eventually makes contact with the gradual tapered conical portion of the probe. The tapered portion of the front body portion of the probe is formed to gradually bring the receiver which is mounted on a gimbal outlined below and front body portion into close alignment without binding. Once this alignment has occurred the centerline axis of the probe will be positioned substantially co axially with the centerline axis of the receiver . The juxtaposition of the front step tapered conical portion of the probe and the forward conical surface of the receiver enables a liquid tight seal between the steep tapered conical portion probe surface and the elastomeric gasket in the front of the receiver . This same juxtaposition enables the probe groove to be engaged and captured by the gripper balls of the receiver.

As shown in the latch and release operating system includes a reservoir having hydraulic oil that is removed from the reservoir via a mesh strainer and conveyed via a motor driven pump . The system also includes an accumulator into which oil that is under pressure flows. The accumulator stores oil under pressure until the oil is required for a latch or release event. A relief valve limits the maximum value of oil pressure to a predetermined value. A pressure gauge is employed to determine the correct pressure setting for the relief valve . The accumulator is sized sufficient to supply more than one latch attempt and or a latch followed by an immediate release event. The accumulator is capable of providing a ready supply of pressurized hydraulic oil at a high flow rate and is employed to rapidly complete latching once the probe is in position within the receiver . The pump is sized to replenish the accumulator within a time period that is less than that required for the surface water vessel to disengage from the floating receptacle following an unsuccessful latching attempt back off and make another approach that will permit successive latching attempts until a connection is achieved. The combination of small hydraulic pump and accumulator minimizes the total weight and cost of the machinery.

The system includes sensors outlined below that do not control the flow of liquid but control the latch timing and they also report on the state of the system. As shown in the system includes an inductive proximity sensor mounted in the receiver . The mounting positions the sensor so that it will detect the presence of the probe when it has entered the receiver and is in position to be latched. Also included is an inductive proximity sensor that detects the presence of the piston in the receiver when it reaches the full forward position. When the piston is in this position the balls are forced towards the center of the receiver. If the probe is in position as sensed by the sensor and the ball piston is full forward as sensed by sensor then a mechanical latching is achieved. The system also includes a micro switch sensor having a magnet mounted into the moving bracket of the receiver and a reed switch mounted on a small piece of angle aluminum mounted onto the yoke . The reed switch is normally closed so when it is close to the magnet the switch is open.

The system is designed to automatically capture the probe when it reaches the appropriate position within the receiver . A maintained contact switch supplies the latching system by connecting electrical voltage to the proximity sensor in the receiver . The hydraulic pump is driven by an electric motor not shown that is electrically energized by an operator controlled switch not shown. The probe enters the aft end of the receiver assembly specifically the housing . When the probe reaches the front of the receiver its presence is detected by proximity sensor . Proximity sensor responds by sending a 24 VDC signal which energizes a relay . The relay connects electrical power to and energizes a solenoid which shifts a connected three way valve connecting hydraulic fluid under pressure to the aft side of the piston via hydraulic connection on the receiver and the hydraulic drain to the forward side of the piston via hydraulic connection on the receiver .

According to this operation oil flows into the space between the aft face of the piston and the housing moving the piston forward in the receiver housing . The piston has a conically tapered interior surface that pushes the steel balls forward and then forces them into a circular slot formed by the housing and the receiver bracket . The balls engage the circular groove in the probe tip . When the piston has traveled all the way forward in the housing it will be detected by the sensor . The sensor then sends a 24 VDC electrical signal that indicates that the receiver has fully latched. The combination of sensors and indicates a successful latching of the probe into the receiver .

After a latching event the surface water vessel will reduce propulsive power and will be towed by the latched probe . When the towing tension exceeds the spring preload in the receiver as outlined above with respect to the valve will open. When the receiver valve has opened the magnet mounted on the moving bracket will be moved away from the reed switch . This interaction between the elements of the sensor i.e. the magnet and the reed switch essentially closes the sensor and sends a 24 VDC signal to the controls. The combination of sensors and indicates that the system has latched and that the fluid passageway is open and ready to pass the fuel.

The system is fitted with a manual override feature that comprises one maintained contact switch that bypasses the inductive proximity sensor . Consequently the operator may manually command the receiver to latch with or without the presence of the probe . This feature can be employed to manually check the system s operability prior to an engagement and to circulate hydraulic oil within the system to for example ensure all components are at a similar temperature to reduce the likelihood of thermally locking close fitting components such as the receiver piston within the housing .

Releasing the probe from the receiver is accomplished manually by depressing switch which when depressed will simultaneously disconnect electrical power from the latch arm switch and all components downstream as depicted in the figure including the inductive proximity sensor relay and solenoid and energize relay that will connect electrical power to solenoid that will shift the three way valve to connect hydraulic fluid under pressure to the forward side of the piston via hydraulic connection on the receiver and the hydraulic drain to the aft side of the piston via hydraulic connection on the receiver . Oil flows into the space between the forward face of the piston and the housing moving the piston aft in the receiver housing and releasing the probe .

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. For example elements of the invention may be exaggerated merely to illustrate the operation thereof. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

