---

title: Pneumatically controlled dual mode face seal
abstract: A pneumatically controlled, two part, rotational face seal is disclosed that has dual modes of operation. There is a first, static mode where a face of each of the two parts of the seal touch each other and provide an air, liquid and water vapor tight, very low leakage rate with high rotational friction between the two parts of the seal. In the second, dynamic mode wherein the two parts of the seal are separated by inert gas and the face seal functions as a gas bearing having very low rotational friction as the two parts are rotated with respect to each other. One part of the seal may be attached to a rotatable turret and the other part may be attached to a base on which the turret is mounted.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08708342&OS=08708342&RS=08708342
owner: BAE Systems Information and Electronic Systems Integration Inc.
number: 08708342
owner_city: Nashua
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120711
---
This application claims the benefit of Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 510 096 filed Jul. 21 2011.

The invention was made with United States Government assistance under contract No. W56 HZV 05 C 0724 awarded by the US Army. The United States Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to rotational seals and more specifically to pneumatically powered rotational seals.

Transparent spherical domes mounted on a base do not require dynamic seals but require very precise mechanical centration of interior gimbal mechanisms are expensive and often fragile or exhibit high optical scattering. Spring loaded rotary Teflon seals are in common use but rotational friction is often higher than desired the seal often has greater leakage than desirable when the gimbal mechanism is not rotating and seal replacement is needed more often than desirable.

Conventional spring energized dynamic rotary joint rotational Teflon seals often compromise between friction of adjacent elements of the seal and the inward leak rate of water vapor or water around the seal. The negative result is generally that the leak rate around the rotational seal is high enough to require frequent maintenance action such as gas purging and desiccant replacement and at the same time there is much higher friction between the dome and the base upon which it rotates than is desirable. In some infrared and electro optic systems the rotary motion between a dome and its base is only required for a relatively short period that is defined by the external cueing and or test signals.

A need therefore exists in the art for a dynamic rotational seal that has a rotational friction that is much lower than found in the prior art and has improved environmental sealing against air moisture and other contaminants external to the dome or a rotary sealed turret in cued or operation upon command pointing and tracking systems. In addition a need exists in the art for a dynamic rotational seal that requires much less maintenance than prior art seals.

To solve the aforementioned problems of the prior art a pneumatically powered dual mode rotational face seal having two states is disclosed. In a first static state the novel face seal functions as an air liquid and water vapor tight high friction seal between two components with a very low leakage rate such as a turret e.g. a dome and a base on which the turret is mounted. In its second dynamic state to which the seal is quickly and easily converted the face seal functions as a gas bearing having very low friction in order to easily rotate the turret with respect to a base on which the turret is mounted. This is done with minimal loss of gas used to create and maintain the gas bearing. The advantages of the dynamic dual mode rotational seal when in the dynamic gas bearing mode are extremely low friction and when in the static mode a very low gas leak rate from between elements of the seal resulting in a much increased time between any needed maintenance actions.

The novel rotational face seal comprises a first flat seal plate that is attached to the base to which a rotatable turret is mounted and a second flat seal plate that is mounted to be flexibly attached to the rotatable turret allowing a small amount of axial movement. When the turret is not being rotated with respect to the base the first and second flat seal plates are in the first static state where the first and second seal plates are in face to face contact to create an air and water vapor tight seal. A flexible support between the turret and the second flat seal plate allows the required small axial movement and also provides a static seal between the second face of the second seal plate to the turret both when the turret is not rotating and when it is rotating.

When it is desired to rotate the turret with respect to the base the seal is converted to its second dynamic state where it functions in a manner similar to that of a gas bearing. To accomplish the conversion dry high pressure gas is momentarily injected via holes through the first flat seal plate with a sufficient first pressure to break the static air and liquid tight seal between the first seal plate and the second seal plate causing a small axial perpendicular to the plane of the seal faces displacement of the second plate away from the first plate. After the air and liquid tight seal is broken the first gas pressure is replaced by a lower second gas pressure that is sufficient to maintain a dynamic gas bearing between the first seal plate and the second seal plate. This mode is continued as long as any motion including precision pointing of the turret at moving objects is required. When movement of the turret is no longer required the second gas pressure is removed which terminates the gas bearing and the first flat seal plate and the second flat seal plate again come into face to face contact to reestablish the static air and liquid tight seal between them which is the first static state. Thus there is a high sealing force a low leak rate around the seal and a high friction torque in the static state. In addition the novel face seal needs much less maintenance than prior art rotational seals.

The invention is a novel pneumatically controlled dual mode two part face seal used between two elements where one of the elements will rotate with respect to the other of the two elements. The novel dual mode face seal provides low friction low leak rate and much increased time between maintenance actions. The two modes or states are a first static mode and a second dynamic mode. In the static mode there is an air and liquid tight seal between the two parts of the face seal and in the dynamic mode an air bearing is created between the two parts of the face seal. The air bearing permits the two parts of the face seal to easily rotate with respect to each other.

More specifically in the preferred embodiment of the invention described in detail herein the two elements between which the face seal is mounted are a turret e.g. a rotatable dome and a base on which the turret is mounted. The turret is element number in and the base is element number in which are described in detail hereinafter. Turret is shown combined with base in . The turret and base are also shown in and described in detail with reference to other figures.

The two parts of the novel face seal are lower face seal shown in greatest detail in and and upper face seal shown in greatest detail in . The upper and lower face seals are also shown in other figures.

In is shown a perspective view of the first or lower face seal . Face seal is flat has a diameter of 4.00 inches is 0.375 inches thick and has a hole through its center that has a diameter of 2.75 inches. There are three very shallow arcuate grooves and spaced 120 degrees from each other and the grooves all have a depth of 0.00075 0.00025 inches. Each of the arcuate grooves has an angular distance of one hundred ten degrees. The arcuate length of the spacing between the arcuate grooves is ten degrees. In all figures of the drawing the depth of grooves and are exaggerated and are shown much deeper only than they actually are for the sake of convenience.

Lower seal plate is made of sapphire and its upper surface facing upper seal plate is coated with a thin film of Teflon in the preferred embodiment of the invention. The thickness of the Teflon film is included in the 0.375 inches thickness of seal plate . To create the thin Teflon film Teflon AF liquid form is utilized and it is applied by spin coating which is known in the art and creates a very thin uniform thickness film. Lower seal plate is made very flat and the tolerance is within one quarter wavelength at 628 nanometers peak to valley and 0.08 wavelength RMS. Lower plate seal is also coated with Teflon in the same manner as the upper plate seal . In an alternative embodiment of the invention the Teflon or other coating may be eliminated. The seal plate may be of other materials capable of sufficient stiffness and surface flatness.

As may be seen in in each of arcuate grooves and there are two holes through lower seal plate . As shown and identified in groove has holes and groove has holes and and groove has holes and . Each of these holes extends vertically through lower seal plate . All these holes have a diameter of 0.050 inches and the top of each hole has a slightly larger portion with a diameter of 0.060 inches and a depth of 0.030 inches. While not specifically shown in the figures a sapphire orifice bead is fitted into the larger top portion of each of the six holes.

The two holes in each of the three arcuate grooves and that go through lower seal plate are spaced an angular distance of fifteen degrees and are lengthwise centered in each of the arcuate grooves.

In is shown a top view of lower seal plate that better shows the location of the six holes and also see through lower seal plate . In an alternate embodiment of the invention only two longer arcuate grooves may be utilized in the upper surface lower seal plate . Another embodiment of the lower seal plate is shown in and is described in detail further in this Detailed Description.

In is shown a perspective view of upper seal plate . Upper seal plate also has a diameter of 4.00 inches is 0.375 inches thick including a Teflon AF layer on its lower surface and has a hole through its center that also has a diameter of 2.75 inches. Upper seal plate is also made of sapphire and has the same degree of flatness as lower seal plate as previously described. In an alternative embodiment of the invention a different coating may be utilized or may be eliminated.

In is shown a top view of lower seal plate with the six holes and through seal plate all identified. At the bottom edge of is a view arrow V indicating a side view from the bottom of lower seal plate that is shown in as cutaway views BB and AA respectively.

In is a cutaway side view AA of lower seal plate as indicated in . In this cutaway view AA arcuate grooves and are also shown visible holes and are shown with solid lines and non visible holes and are shown with dotted lines. The full extent of arcuate grooves and are also shown with dotted lines. This is done to give the reader a better understanding of an arctuate groove and its two holes. Dimensions have previously been described.

In is a top view of upper seal plate on top of lower seal plate . Thus the arcuate grooves and their holes are not directly visible and are shown as dotted lines. A cutaway view CC is indicated that is shown in that better show the function of the dual mode seal.

In is shown a side view of upper seal plate sitting on top of lower seal plate in the static mode of the novel dual mode seal. This static mode is characterized by high sealing force low leak rate and high friction torque. The space S between the two plates is in essence zero. The extreme flatness of these two plates with one or more facing Teflon AF coatings assures that an air and liquid tight seal is created by them. This will be better understood hereinafter with reference to the description of . The two plates and are held together by gas pressure inside the system as described hereinafter with reference to . Cutaway view CC shown in this is the same as cutaway view BB shown in except for upper seal plate being on top of lower seal plate to create an air and liquid tight seal.

In is shown a side cutaway view CC of upper seal plate spaced above lower seal plate See . To initially separate seal plates and a pulse of high pressure inert gas dry air or nitrogen at 60 psi is applied via holes and to arcuate grooves and respectfully. This pressure is sufficient to separate seal plates and . All the arcuate grooves and the holes therein are not shown in but they are seen in and other Figures. The high pressure pulse of inert gas may be applied to all arcuate grooves at one time or in an alternate embodiment of the invention the pulse may be applied to the arcuate grooves in a sequential manner.

After the high pressure pulse s of inert gas separate s upper seal plate and lower seal plate to create a gap S a continuous lower pressure of dry inert gas at 25 psi is applied to holes and . The gas supplied to each hole passes through flow restricting small bead orifices in the upper end of the holes as in typical air bearing technology and emerges in arcuate grooves and respectively. This pressure and very small gas flow escaping from between the separated seal plates creates a gas bearing and maintains the separation of seal plates and in their dynamic mode. The use of the flow limiting small bead orifices as in the existing art and three or more arcuate grooves results in both passive self leveling of the upper seal plate and passive regulation of the gap width by a negative feedback process. For example if the plate separation over a particular groove were to increase the flow would at first increase causing an increased pressure drop at the orifice. Therefore the pressure supplied to that groove would decrease resulting in a corrective downward force applied to the upper seal plate over the lower plate groove in question and thereby causing the self leveling action. When there are three or more grooves in the lower plate this action causes an equilibrium gap width that is constant over the plate area and is a function of the input gas pressure and the orifice diameter. Either parameter may be modified to change the operating gap width. In the preferred embodiment the pressure prior to each orifice is 25 psi and each orifice diameter is 0.0004 inches which in the dynamic mode causes the spacing between seal plates and to be as little as 0.5 microns but typically of the order of 1.0 micron. In the dynamic mode upper seal plate is rotated with respect to lower seal plate . This is explained in more detail with reference to . More particularly in the dynamic mode there are gas molecules flowing outward whenever the plates are separated which will sweep any exterior gas molecules outward with them. Some of the gas molecules injected under pressure also will also flow to the interior of the system to replenish any interior gas lost during long periods in the second static mode through various leak mechanisms.

At the end of the dynamic mode the spacing maintenance pressure is terminated and any dry inert gas between plates and is expelled by ambient pressure inside a system with which the novel dual mode seal is utilized. See where the system comprises a turret and base . It is preferred that a positive gas pressure be maintained inside the system housing that will act as a spring like force uniformly distributed on the seal ring plates and to hold them together tightly for lowest possible leakage to the atmosphere. A modest chamber pressure such as 8 10 psi above atmospheric pressure may result in a compressive force of well over 100 pounds on the seal plates in the static mode once the air between them has been removed. Positive chamber pressure also aids in the fast removal of residual gas between seal plates and for faster transition from their dynamic or separated mode to their static or closed mode. It would be very difficult to duplicate such a large and uniformly distributed sealing pressure by using springs or electromechanical devices. In another alternative use of the novel dual mode seal any dry inert gas between seal plates and at the end of its dynamic mode of operation may be pumped out to quickly re establish a good air and liquid tight seal between seal plates and .

In an alternate embodiment of the invention not shown in the drawings there is only a single hole through the lower seal plate for each arcuate groove and only the high pressure inert gas is used to separate upper seal plate and lower seal plate to create a gap S and to maintain the separation of the plates. This alternate embodiment is less efficient than the preferred embodiment which uses high pressure and low pressure gas as described herein and in many applications the flow regulating orifices would have to be eliminated because they would cause a much slower process of plate separation. However if the orifices were eliminated the self leveling and gap regulation functions described above would not be available.

In are shown the two main components that comprise a system with which the novel dual mode seal is utilized. As mentioned in the Summary of the Invention an example of such a system comprises a rotatable turret e.g. a dome and a base on which turret is mounted . shows a side cutaway view of rotatable turret to which the upper seal plate is attached. shows a side cutaway view of base to which the lower seal plate is attached. Both being a cutaway view upper seal in appears as two pieces but it is really one circular donut shaped piece around the lower part of turret and lower seal plate in appears as two pieces but it is really one circular donut shaped piece on top of base . The lower part of turret passes both through center hole of upper seal plate and through center hole of the lower seal plate when turret is assembled to base .

More particularly in upper seal plate is mounted in a groove in the bottom side of a mounting plate . Mounting plate is also a circular donut shaped piece with a hole through its middle through which the lower part of turret passes. Mounting plate is in turn flexibly attached by a circular donut shaped diaphragm or bellows to the top of a circular ledge on the inside of rotatable turret as shown. Mounting plate is not fastened to the lower part of turret as shown by the small space between mounting plate and the lower part of turret . Diaphragm permits upper seal plate and its mounting plate to move vertically as shown by the double headed arrow W in . Upper seal plate is moved upward as gas pressure is applied to the bottom side upper seal from an arcuate groove in the top side of lower seal plate and moves downward as the gas pressure is removed. This is better explained with reference to . When upper seal plate is moved upward moving its mounting plate and flexing diaphragm to separate it from lower seal plate turret may be rotated as indicated by the circular arrow shown above turret in .

Inside the enclosed area at the top of turret may be mounted antennas and or electro optical elements that need to be rotated and be protected from conditions outside turret . Static sealing material may be used around optical or other windows in turret that are used to transmit electromagnetic energy inward or outward.

On the outside of the lower portion of turret are mounted the inner part and of two ball bearing retainers which are part of an angular contact duplex ball bearing assembly. not shown is mounted in the groove of each of parts and during the assembly of turret to base and shown in final position in .

Although not shown in but shown in inert gas air or nitrogen at 50 60 psi from a gas solenoid shown in and described with reference to is inserted into base at channel and is routed through internal channels not shown to and through holes and through lower seal plate to its arcuate grooves respectively. The 50 60 psi is a pulse of the inert gas at this pressure which is sufficient to push upper seal plate up off its air and liquid tight seal static mode with lower seal plate to create the separation dynamic mode shown in . Diaphragm flexes to facilitate this vertical movement of upper seal plate . Once upper seal plate is lifted off lower seal plate the high pressure pulse of inert gas is terminated and is replaced by inert gas medium pressure at 25 psi as applied through flow regulating orifices in each medium pressure gas supply hole in the lower seal plate. The medium pressure inert gas is from a gas solenoid shown in and described with reference to is inserted into base at channel and is routed through internal channels not shown into holes and through lower seal plate and then through flow limiting orifice beads inside holes and to its arcuate grooves respectively. This medium gas pressure as regulated by negative feedback pressure drop at the orifices is sufficient to maintain a desired uniform gap spacing between seal plates and during the duration of the pointing or tracking rotation state mode of turret . At the end of this state mode the pressurized gas at input is then terminated and upper seal plate is pushed back down on top of lower seal plate to re create the air and liquid tight seal between the two.

The parts thru are intended to simply comprise a pair of angular contact duplex ball bearing assemblies to provide precision alignment of the rotation axis of turret with respect to the centerline axis of the cylindrical bore of base but allow free rotation. These ball bearing assemblies are designed to support a load in two orthogonal directions in this case horizontally and vertically.

There is some friction during rotation with ball bearings compared to what would exist by making the air pressure between the seal plates carry the entire load of the turret weight and at the same time maintain precision axis alignment as it would be in an alternative embodiment of the invention. In other words the seal plates would have to act like an air bearing to support the weight of the whole turret and maintain alignment of the turret and base. This is not the case with the present invention. The gas flow required to support the entire mass of the turret would be at least ten times higher than the flow needed to just keep the seal plates apart. Also flat seal surfaces such as in all of our discussions wouldn t provide centering of the turret axis.

In is shown turret assembled onto base with the seal in its static mode with upper seal plate being in contact with lower seal plate to create the air and liquid tight seal. It can be seen that in this static mode any external air that comes under the bottom of the outer part of turret is blocked by diaphragm and the air and liquid tight seal between seal plates and . As previously mentioned the weight of mounting plate and any gas pressure of the inert gas inside turret that is higher than the external air pressure will maintain the air and liquid tight seal between seal plates and . A modest chamber pressure such as 8 10 psi above atmospheric pressure may result in a compressive force of well over 100 pounds on the seal plates and in their static mode once the air between them has been removed.

In is shown turret assembled onto base with the seal in its dynamic mode with upper seal plate being separated from lower seal plate by first using a high pressure pulse of 50 60 psi of inert gas applied at input to separate the two seal plates followed by inert gas at 25 psi applied at input to maintain the two seal plates and in their dynamic state of being separated as shown. In this dynamic separated state turret may be rotated with respect to base . Finer details of this operation have previously been described herein. The application of the 50 60 psi and 25 psi inert gas at inputs and is described with reference to .

It can be seen that in this dynamic mode inert gas escaping from between seal plates and into the turret and base is not wasted because it acts to maintain positive interior pressure. The amount of inert gas that escapes to the outside is small due to the very small space between seal plates and while in their dynamic mode. As previously mentioned this small spacing is as little as 0.5 microns but typically will be in the order of 1.0 micron.

To facilitate the transition from the dynamic mode to the static mode of operation the positive gas pressure maintained inside turret and base acts as a spring like force to more quickly expel any remaining inert gas between seal ring plates and and to hold the plates together tightly for lowest possible leakage.

In is shown a block diagram of how a controller controls gas solenoid and pressure regulators and to input dry inert gas from gas supplies and through channels no element numbers through base see and holes and through seal ring plate to arcuate groove . The dry inert gas is also applied to arcuate grooves and via the channels through base but arcuate grooves and are not shown in this figure to avoid cluttering the drawings and making it more difficult to understand the operation of the invention.

Initially the dual mode seal plates are in their static state as shown in . In the static state seal plates and are in contact with each other to create an air and liquid tight seal as previously described. When it is desired to change to the dynamic state which is when it is desired to rotate turret and mounting plate attached thereto as previously described a control signal initialized by an operator is sent to controller . In response thereto controller sends a signal to high speed gas solenoid and pressure regulator which opens and forwards a pulse of dry inert gas typically air or nitrogen from high pressure gas supply via the channels through base and through lower seal plate holes and to arcuate groove . The duration of this pulse is typically 10 milliseconds. As previously described the high pressure inert gas is typically 50 psi. A dessicant cartridge may be placed inside the housing containing the above described components.

Turning to . Responsive to the high pressure gas pulse generated using gas solenoid upper seal plate is separated from lower seal plate by a very small distance that is sufficient to create a gas bearing in the dynamic mode. More particularly in the dynamic mode the spacing between seal plates and is as little as 0.5 microns but typically will be in the order of 1.0 micron.

After the seal plates and are separated by the high pressure dry inert gas pulse as shown in controller disables gas solenoid and instead energizes gas solenoid and pressure regulator . Solenoid opens and forwards lower pressure dry inert gas typically air or nitrogen from low pressure gas supply via channels through base and through lower seal plate holes and to arcuate groove . As previously described the dry low pressure inert gas is typically 25 psi. As long as solenoid and pressure regulator is operated the low pressure gas supply is connected to arcuate groove and maintains the separation of seal plates and in their separated dynamic mode.

After the turret connected to mounting plate via diaphragm see is rotated to a desired position the air bearing created by seal plates and is terminated. The control signal to controller is terminated and the controller causes gas solenoid and pressure regulator to cease operating. This terminates the supply of inert gas from low pressure gas supply . The spring pressure created by deflecting diaphragm see to the dynamic state of the seal plates and cause the seal plates to return to their static state in contact with each other and creating an air and liquid tight seal. A dessicant cartridge may be placed inside the housing containing the above described components.

In is shown an alternative embodiment of lower seal plate . Instead of three arcuate grooves as described hereinabove there are two concentric circular grooves and that are separated by a circular ridge . Grooves and have the same depth as the arcuate grooves. Holes and the high pressure feed holes all lie in the outer circular groove and holes and the low pressure feed holes with orifice bead inserts all lie in the inner circular groove . More or fewer feed holes may be utilized. The top of ridge is the level with the top of the other topmost portions of lower seal plate . The outer diameter of lower seal is the same as lower seal seen in other figures. The diameter of inner hole is the same as hole through lower seal seen in other figures. It should be noted that the self leveling function of the alternative seal as illustrated in with a single continuous circular inner groove may be improved by separating this groove into three separate arcuate grooves as in the preferred embodiment of the invention Likewise the outer groove shown as a complete circle in may also be separated into three arcuate grooves if desired.

Low maintenance is a key feature of the novel dual mode hydraulic seal. Twelve months or more between maintenance may be made possible by low leak rate during off periods and minimal pneumatic control air usage during change between the static mode and the dynamic mode. A small dessicant cartridge may possibly be required but should not need frequent replacement.

While what has been described herein is a preferred embodiment of the invention and one alternative embodiment those skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made with departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which is a dual state mode pneumatic seal.

For example in the embodiment of the invention described herein inert gas is applied to all arcuate grooves at the same time. In an alternate embodiment of the invention the inert gas may be applied to these three grooves via different channels and at different times in a sequential manner.

For another example when the novel dual mode seal is in its static state a separate pressure chamber or a spring means may be utilized to apply pressure to keep the upper and lower seal plate in contact with each other.

