---

title: User control of search filter bubble
abstract: In one aspect, the present disclosure can be embodied in a method that includes receiving a search query from a user via an interface of a search engine. User-selected options are identified for excluding at least one search category in a plurality of predetermined search categories. Each search category corresponds to one or more query signals and page signals used by the search engine to execute search queries. The search query is executed based on the user-selected options, one or more query signals related to the search query received from the user, and one or more page signals related to each potential result of the search query to be executed. Search results are provided to the user based on the executed search query.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08886644&OS=08886644&RS=08886644
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08886644
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121101
---
Modern search engines allow a user to initiate search queries for items of information. Such a search engine executes such queries based on one or more search terms of each query and provides search results e.g. a listing of different web pages via an interface of the search engine e.g. at the user s web browser. Some search engines are configured to personalize search results for a particular user based on different search data associated with the user and the user s search query.

The disclosed subject matter relates to providing user control of personalized search results returned for search queries submitted by a user via an interface of a search engine. In one aspect the subject technology can be embodied in an example method which includes receiving a search query from a user via an interface of a search engine. Different user selected options for excluding at least one search category in a plurality of predetermined search categories are identified. Each search category corresponds to one or more query signals and page signals used by the search engine to execute search queries. The search query is executed by computing a score for each potential result of the search query to be executed based on the user selected options one or more query signals related to the search query received from the user and one or more page signals related to each potential result of the search query to be executed. Search results are provided to the user based on the executed search query.

Other aspects can be embodied in corresponding systems apparatus including computer program products.

It is understood that other configurations of the subject technology will become readily apparent from the following detailed description wherein various configurations of the subject technology are shown and described by way of illustration. As will be realized the subject technology is capable of other and different configurations and its several details are capable of modification in various other respects all without departing from the scope of the subject technology. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

The detailed description set forth below is intended as a description of various configurations of the subject technology and is not intended to represent the only configurations in which the subject technology may be practiced. The appended drawings are incorporated herein and constitute a part of the detailed description. The detailed description includes specific details for the purpose of providing a thorough understanding of the subject technology. However the subject technology is not limited to the specific details set forth herein and may be practiced without these specific details.

The disclosed subject matter relates to providing user control of personalized search results returned for search queries submitted by a user via an interface of a search engine. Such a capability may for example allow the user to selectively control or limit the degree to which a search engine may personalize search results for user submitted search queries. In an example an interface of a search engine is provided to the user via a client application executable at the user s computing device. An example of such a client application includes but is not limited to a web browser. Accordingly the interface of the search engine in this example may be provided to the user via the web browser. The search engine interface in this example may be for example a web page loaded within the web browser. Alternatively the search engine interface may be integrated directly within the web browser itself for example as part of a graphical user interface GUI of the web browser e.g. as a toolbar of the web browser s GUI . The search engine interface may include for example and without limitation a search field for receiving a search query comprising one or more search terms submitted by the user in addition to a content area for providing search results upon executing the user submitted search query.

Further the search engine interface provided to the user may include various user options corresponding to different categories of search signals used by the search engine to personalize the search results provided to the user for each executed search query. Thus the user may enable or disable one or more of these user options in order to vary the amount of personalization that the search engine is configured to use when providing the user with search results for executed search queries. A benefit of the subject technology as described herein may include but is not limited to providing the user with relatively more flexibility with respect to the types of information the search engine may consider when executing search queries and returning the results of these queries. Further the techniques as disclosed herein allow the user to convey the user s actual search preferences directly to the search engine rather than having to rely on inferences made automatically by the search engine e.g. based on browser settings or global search options that may apply to all or only a single type of information that may be used by the search engine when executing a search query received from the user and providing the user with appropriate search results based on the executed query.

The terms web page data and web page content are used herein to refer to any data or resource that can be provided over a network including e.g. the Internet or World Wide Web or the web and be presented to a user e.g. via a web browser. For example such data or resource may be identified by a resource location address for example in a Uniform Resource Locator URL and or Uniform Resource Identifier URI that is associated with the resource. Further web page data may include different types of resources for example and without limitation Hypertext Markup Language HTML or other markup language elements text images video and other media content and embedded information e.g. meta data and hyperlinks and or embedded JavaScript or other scripting language elements.

In an example each of clients communicates with server s over network . Clients can be any type of computing device with at least one processor local memory display and one or more input devices e.g. a mouse QWERTY keyboard touch screen microphone or a T9 keyboard . Examples of different computing devices that may be used to implement any of clients include but are not limited to a desktop computer a laptop computer a handheld computer a personal digital assistant PDA a network appliance a camera a smart phone a media player a navigation device an email device a game console a television with an embedded processor or coupled to a processor or a combination of any these data processing devices or other data processing devices. Alternatively each of clients can be a specialized computing device such as for example a mobile handset or tablet computer. Similarly server can be implemented using any general purpose computer capable of serving data to any of clients . Server may be implemented as for example and without limitation a web server an application server a proxy server a network server or a group of computing devices in a server farm. Further the data served to clients may include local data stored in a local data store e.g. data store coupled to server or remote data stored in a remote data store or remote server accessible to server via network . Such remote data may include for example user data associated with a public profile of a social networking service.

In some aspects network environment can be a distributed client server system that spans one or more networks such as network . Network can be any network or combination of networks that can carry data communication. Such a network can include but is not limited to a cellular network a local area network medium area network and or wide area network such as the Internet or a combination thereof for communicatively coupling any number of mobile clients fixed clients and servers. In some aspects each of clients can communicate with server via a virtual private network VPN Secure Shell SSH tunnel or other secure network connection. In some aspects network may further include a corporate network e.g. intranet and one or more wireless access points.

In some implementations server executes a web search engine that provides relevant search results e.g. in the form of web pages or other content for a search query submitted by a user of clients . The search query may be submitted by the user via an interface provided at each of clients . As will be described in further detail below the interface may be a web interface provided in the form of a web page loaded within browser executable at each of clients . In an example the search engine at server executes a user submitted search query by analyzing a plurality of search signals related to the search query. Such search signals may include for example user specific query signals derived from particular attributes of the user and or search query received from the user e.g. via an interface of the search engine and page signals related to attributes of the potential search results e.g. relevant web pages obtained during execution of the search query.

As noted above and as will be described in further detail below query signals may be derived directly from the search query itself and may include but are not limited to the search term s of the query the particular type of web browser used to submit the query and the user s geographic location. Additional query signals may be derived from various attributes associated with the particular user. Such attributes may be associated with for example a public profile stored for the particular user in the search engine. Further such user attributes may be based on for example the user s activities within a web browser including but not limited to the user s search or browsing history. Other attributes may be for example personal attributes of the particular user including but not limited to the user s geographic location. The user s geographic location may correspond to that of web browser s geographic location. Further the geographic location may be based on for example the IP address associated with browser or clients . Additional query signals may be derived from information associated with the user e.g. as stored in data store as described above. In some implementations the user information may be stored in association with an online account or profile of the user that is public or has been made available to the search engine. Such information may include for example social connections associated with a public profile in an online social networking site or service as described above.

As shown in each of clients executes a browser . For example clients may execute different implementations of browser where each implementation is targeted to a particular computing platform associated with a respective client device. Further browser can be any type of web browser or similar application. For example browser may request web pages associated with computing system . Further computing system may be associated with a third party publisher or provider of web content to be included within web pages using one or more browser supported programming languages including but not limited to JavaScript VBScript HTML or other type of language for writing web pages.

In an example each of clients communicates with server s over network to retrieve web page data or content e.g. stored in data store s to be loaded into browser . Browser requests one or more web pages from server s over network using one or more standard communication protocols including for example Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP . In an example server returns the web pages in response to the request s from browser . In an embodiment browser decodes the HTML and or other markup or scripting language in which the web page is encoded. For example the HTML code of the web page may specify a location or source of third party content which may be a web resource e.g. a separate web page text or graphical object that is to be embedded within the web page as it is rendered in a window of browser .

The web page content is displayed by browser in a content area for the user to view via a display or rendering device coupled to each of clients . Such a display or rendering device can include but is not limited to a touch screen display light emitting diode LED display or liquid crystal display LCD screen. The user may also interact with a GUI of browser to perform various web based tasks. Such tasks may include for example and without limitation directing browser to different web pages or submitting search queries via an interface of a search engine provided at browser as will be described in further detail below. Browser receives user input from one or more input devices not shown of clients . Examples of such user input devices include but are not limited to a mouse keyboard or touch screen display.

In an example the web page content loaded in the web browser may be for a web interface of a search engine that the user can use to submit web search queries. The user may enter the one or more search terms of the search query via a search field of the search engine s interface using one or more user input devices coupled to the computing device e.g. a mouse for selecting inside search field and a keyboard for entering text characters . In some implementations the interface of the search engine may be integrated with the web browser for example as a separate search field not shown of GUI . Upon executing a search query submitted by the user via search field the search engine may display a list of search results in the form of for example web page content or data loaded within content area . The search results displayed in content area may include for example a list of links to different web pages that may be relevant to a particular search query submitted by the user. The user may select a search result displayed in content area by for example selecting a link to a web page using a user input device as described above.

Upon the user s entry of each character of a search string into a search field the user may be presented with one or more search query options as shown in . Search query options may be displayed as different entries or items in a pop up or drop down list control element in association with search field . As will be described in further detail below each of these search query options may correspond to different search signals used by the search engine to execute search queries submitted by the user via search field .

In some implementations the degree to which the search engine filters search results based on a comparison of query and page signals as will be described in further detail below may be adjusted in accordance with the user s preferences for personalized search results. For example the user may specify such preferences via an options panel of GUI of as shown by the example of . illustrates an example options panel for selecting search categories to ignore during execution of search queries. Options panel may be accessible via for example an option displayed in a menu control not shown of GUI . As shown in the user may specify such preferences by toggling various options in a list of options presented to the user via options panel .

In an example each user option corresponds to a category of search signals e.g. including both query and page signals used by the search engine to personalize search results. Thus different user dependent or query signals used by the search engine may be grouped into predetermined categories for the user. As shown in an example of such a category may include a Geographical category that groups query signals related to the user s location including but not limited to the user s current location past locations and search history involving geographic locations of interest or travel plans e.g. searches for airline ticket prices . Other examples of categories may include but are not limited to a Search History category including all of the user s previously submitted search queries and corresponding results selected in addition to a Social category including signals related to the user s social connections or contacts associated with an email account or profile in a social networking site or service.

Client device communicates with server system e.g. system of as described above via a network e.g. network of as described above . In an example search engine identifies relevant search results e.g. web pages or other content for a search query to be executed by analyzing a plurality of search signals for the search query. Such search signals may include for example user dependent query signals related to the user and or search query received from the user e.g. via an interface of search engine at web browser as well as page signals related solely to the potential search results e.g. relevant web pages to be presented to the user. The query signals may be derived directly from the search query itself and may include but are not limited to the search term s of the query the particular type of web browser used to submit the query and web browser s geographic location e.g. based on the IP address associated with browser or client device . Additional query signals may be derived from information associated with the user or an online account profile of the user that is public or has been made available to search engine . Such information may include for example and without limitation the user s social connections within an online social networking site or service the user s search history e.g. previous search queries submitted and or search results selected by the user or other public information associated with the user or user profile . Further such information for the user may be stored for example in an online data store accessible to the search engine or within a search cookie file linked to the web browser at the user s computing device.

Page signals may be related to web pages to be provided as results of the search query may be derived from for example web page content that is local to an individual web page or global across multiple web pages e.g. based on the number or quality of web pages that may be linked to the individual web page . Examples of different page signals may include but are not limited to the frequency of search terms within the contents of a web page the language s of such web page content the source of the content e.g. country the page or corresponding web site may be hosted and the type or nature of the content e.g. advertisements vs. informational .

Thus search engine may execute a search query for the user by first comparing the page signals related to web page content in a list of potential search results for the query and query signals related to the user and or search query itself. The search engine may then compute a score for each web page or potential search result e.g. in the list of potential search results based on the comparison between page signals and query signals . It should be noted that search engine may be use any of various techniques for computing the score for each potential search result. Further such techniques may compute the score based on various inputs including query signals and page signals. In an example the computed score of each web page or potential search result may represent the relevance of each search result with respect to the user s search query in comparison with other search results in list of potential search results. The relative score of each potential search result may then be used to rank the web pages search results in the list of potential search results. The search engine may then provide search results to the user by filtering out from the list any search result or web page having a score or page rank that falls below a predetermined threshold score or ranking.

In some implementations the degree to which the search engine filters search results based on query and page signals as described above may be adjusted in accordance with the user s preferences for personalized search results. As noted previously the user may specify such preferences by toggling various options in a list of options presented to the user via an interface of the search engine . In an example each user option corresponds to a category of search signals e.g. including both query and page signals used by the search engine to personalize search results. Thus different user dependent or query signals used by the search engine may be grouped into predetermined categories for the user. As described above examples of such categories may include but are not limited to a Geographical category that groups query signals related to the user s location a Search History category including all of the user s previously submitted search queries and a Social category including signals related to the user s social connections or contacts.

It should be noted that a category may include query signals page signals or any combination thereof. As such a user option to disable a category may cause the search engine to remove query signals page signals or both types of signals from consideration when ranking search results or filtering such results based on rank as described above. For example if a page signal is removed the search engine will no longer compare or attempt to match the removed page signal against any remaining query signal. Similarly if a query signal is removed the search engine will no longer compare or attempt to match the removed query signal against any remaining page signal.

In contrast with exposing user options for individual search signals the use of categories to represent different search signals allows the search engine to provide the user with a relatively easy way to enable disable relevant search signals without revealing any implementation details with respect to the specific search signals being used by the search engine. Further the options selected by the user may be stored as the user s search preferences for example in association with a user account or profile for the search engine . The use of such search categories also helps to ensure that such user preferences remain persistent over multiple user sessions and any future updates to the search engine that may change the particular signals used by search engine to personalize search results e.g. by removing or replacing existing signals or adding new signals . For example a user preference to disable a particular search category e.g. the Geographical category still would be effective for any new search signals that pertain to this category and that may be added during an update of the search engine .

As described previously the list of user options for enabling or disabling different search categories may be provided to the user via an interface of the search engine . Such an interface may be presented to the user for example as an online interface via a web page loaded within web browser for the search engine . Alternatively such an interface may be provided as part of a user interface of the web browser itself. In some implementations the search engine may define a protocol for a web browser to communicate the user s search preferences e.g. specified via an interface of the web browser to the search engine . The user preferences may be obtained by the search engine from the web browser for example when the user navigates to a web page associated with the search engine using the browser or when a search query is received from the user via an interface of the search engine e.g. as provided to the user via the web page . The user preferences sent from the browser to the search engine may include for example user options specifying the particular search categories to disable.

Further the search engine may be configured to map each user option or search category e.g. each option displayed in options panel of described above from the browser s interface to one or more corresponding search signals e.g. that may be specific to the search engine s particular implementation . In an example the list of options displayed to the user may be specific to the particular type browser. Further the names and types of search categories may vary from one browser to another. However search engine may define a standardized protocol or application programming interface or API for each browser to use in order to implement the search functionality and features of search engine within the browser. Such a protocol or API of search engine may define for example a data format that browser can use to specify each search category option and any associated data which search engine may in turn use to map the specified search category to the appropriate set of search query signals. In this way the search engine can support different types of web browsers e.g. which conform to the protocol defined by the search engine.

Method begins in step which includes receiving a search query from a user via an interface of a search engine. In step it is determined whether the user selected any search signal options for excluding one or more search signal categories. If it is determined in step that the user did not select any search signal options method proceeds to step in which the search query is executed as normal without excluding any search signals. In this case method proceeds directly to step in which search results are provided to the user e.g. via a web browser based on the executed query. However if it is determined in step that the user specified such options method proceeds to step in which user selected options are identified for excluding at least one search category in a plurality of predetermined search categories. Each predetermined search category may correspond to for example one or more of a plurality of query signals and page signals used by the search engine to execute search queries.

Method then proceeds to step which includes comparing one or more query signals related to the search query received from the user and one or more page signals related to each potential result of the search query to be executed. The comparison in step is based on the user selected options identified in step discussed above. In an example at least one of the plurality of identified query signals and page signals may correspond to a search category to be excluded from the comparison. In step the search query is executed by the search engine e.g. search engine of as described above based on the comparison in step . In step the search results are provided to the user based on the executed search query in step .

Many of the above described features and applications are implemented as software processes that are specified as a set of instructions recorded on a computer readable storage medium also referred to as computer readable medium . When these instructions are executed by one or more processing unit s e.g. one or more processors cores of processors or other processing units they cause the processing unit s to perform the actions indicated in the instructions. Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to CD ROMs flash drives RAM chips hard drives EPROMs etc. The computer readable media does not include carrier waves and electronic signals passing wirelessly or over wired connections.

In this specification the term software is meant to include but is not limited to firmware residing in read only memory or applications stored in magnetic storage which can be read into memory for processing by a processor. Also in some implementations multiple software aspects of the subject disclosure can be implemented as sub parts of a larger program while remaining distinct software aspects of the subject disclosure. In some implementations multiple software aspects can also be implemented as separate programs. Finally any combination of separate programs that together implement a software aspect described here is within the scope of the subject disclosure. In some implementations the software programs when installed to operate on one or more electronic systems define one or more specific machine implementations that execute and perform the operations of the software programs.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine object or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

Bus collectively represents all system peripheral and chipset buses that communicatively connect the numerous internal devices of electronic system . For instance bus communicatively connects processing unit s with ROM system memory and permanent storage device .

From these various memory units processing unit s retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of the subject disclosure. The processing unit s can be a single processor or a multi core processor in different implementations.

ROM stores static data and instructions that are needed by processing unit s and other modules of the electronic system. Permanent storage device on the other hand is a read and write memory device. This device is a non volatile memory unit that stores instructions and data even when electronic system is off. Some implementations of the subject disclosure use a mass storage device such as a magnetic or optical disk and its corresponding disk drive as permanent storage device .

Other implementations use a removable storage device e.g. a floppy disk flash drive or disk drive as permanent storage device . Like permanent storage device system memory is a read and write memory device. However unlike storage device system memory is a volatile read and write memory such a random access memory. System memory stores some of the instructions and data that the processor needs at runtime. In some implementations the processes of the subject disclosure are stored in system memory permanent storage device and or ROM . For example the various memory units include instructions for automatically performing the steps of method of as described above in accordance with an implementation of the subject technology disclosed herein. From these various memory units processing unit s retrieves instructions to execute and data to process in order to execute the processes of some implementations.

Bus also connects to input and output device interfaces and . Input device interface enables the user to communicate information and select commands to the electronic system. Input devices used with input device interface include for example alphanumeric keyboards and pointing devices also called cursor control devices . Output device interfaces enables for example the display of images generated by the electronic system . Output devices used with output device interface include for example printers and display devices e.g. cathode ray tubes CRT or liquid crystal displays LCD . Some implementations include devices e.g. a touch screen that functions as both input and output devices.

Further as shown in bus also couples electronic system to a network not shown through a network interface . In this manner the computer can be a part of a network of computers such as a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or an Intranet or a network of networks e.g. the Internet. Any or all components of electronic system can be used in conjunction with the subject disclosure.

These functions described above can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry in computer software firmware or hardware. The techniques can be implemented using one or more computer program products. Programmable processors and computers can be included in or packaged as mobile devices. The processes and logic flows can be performed by one or more programmable processors and by one or more programmable logic circuitry. General and special purpose computing devices and storage devices can be interconnected through communication networks.

Some implementations include electronic components e.g. microprocessors storage and memory that store computer program instructions in a machine readable or computer readable medium alternatively referred to as computer readable storage media machine readable media or machine readable storage media . Some examples of such computer readable media include RAM ROM read only compact discs CD ROM recordable compact discs CD R rewritable compact discs CD RW read only digital versatile discs e.g. DVD ROM dual layer DVD ROM a variety of recordable rewritable DVDs e.g. DVD RAM DVD RW DVD RW etc. flash memory e.g. SD cards mini SD cards micro SD cards etc. magnetic and or solid state hard drives read only and recordable Blu Ray discs ultra density optical discs any other optical or magnetic media and floppy disks. The computer readable media can store a computer program that is executable by at least one processing unit and includes sets of instructions for performing various operations. Examples of computer programs or computer code include machine code e.g. is produced by a compiler and files including higher level code that are executed by a computer an electronic component or a microprocessor using an interpreter.

While the above discussion primarily refers to microprocessor or multi core processors that execute software some implementations are performed by one or more integrated circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs . In some implementations such integrated circuits execute instructions that are stored on the circuit itself.

As used in this specification of this application the terms computer server processor and memory all refer to electronic or other technological devices. These terms exclude people or groups of people. For the purposes of the specification the terms display or displaying means displaying on an electronic device. As used in this specification of this application the terms computer readable medium and computer readable media are entirely restricted to tangible physical objects that store information in a form that is readable by a computer. These terms exclude any wireless signals wired download signals and any other ephemeral signals.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input. In addition a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user for example by sending web pages to a web browser on a user s client device in response to requests received from the web browser.

Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN an inter network e.g. the Internet and peer to peer networks e.g. ad hoc peer to peer networks .

The computing system can include multiple clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In some embodiments a server transmits data e.g. an HTML page to a client device e.g. for purposes of displaying data to and receiving user input from a user interacting with the client device . Data generated at the client device e.g. a result of the user interaction can be received from the client device at the server.

It is understood that any specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes disclosed is an illustration of example approaches. Based upon design preferences it is understood that the specific order or hierarchy of steps in the processes may be rearranged or that all illustrated steps be performed. Some of the steps may be performed simultaneously. For example in certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the embodiments described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all embodiments and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

The previous description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the various aspects described herein. Various modifications to these aspects will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other aspects. Any reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless specifically so stated but rather one or more. Unless specifically stated otherwise the term some refers to one or more. Pronouns in the masculine e.g. his include the feminine and neuter gender e.g. her and its and vice versa. Headings and subheadings if any are used for convenience only and do not limit the subject disclosure.

A phrase such as an aspect does not imply that such aspect is essential to the subject technology or that such aspect applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to an aspect may apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. A phrase such as an aspect may refer to one or more aspects and vice versa. A phrase such as a configuration does not imply that such configuration is essential to the subject technology or that such configuration applies to all configurations of the subject technology. A disclosure relating to a configuration may apply to all configurations or one or more configurations. A phrase such as a configuration may refer to one or more configurations and vice versa.

