---

title: Method and apparatus for acquiring event information on demand
abstract: An approach for enabling mobile device users to acquire information regarding events in their proximity on demand is described. An activity processing platform causes, at least in part, an aggregation of activity information associated with at least one device into at least one activity pool. The activity processing platform further processes and/or facilitates a processing of the at least one activity pool against one or more advancement criteria associated with one or more applications, one or more services, or a combination thereof to determine one or more recommendations with respect to the one or more applications, the one or more services, or a combination thereof.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09588968&OS=09588968&RS=09588968
owner: NOKIA TECHNOLOGIES OY
number: 09588968
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20120425
---
Service providers and device manufacturers e.g. wireless cellular etc. are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by providing feature rich contextually relevant applications and services. For example many applications and services developed for mobile devices utilize current location information activity information temporal information and other real time usage or contextual data to enable various functions and features. In certain instances different levels of achievement may be attained by the user within the application or service e.g. unlock an extra level activate an incentive or benefit receive activity points based on the amount of use and interaction of the user with the application or service via the mobile device.

Unfortunately the level attained can be lost when the application or service is accessed from a different device or upon initial registration of the service. This results in the user having to execute the application or service as if no prior advancement was achieved. Still further lack of access to prior activity information regarding the application or service limits the ability of the service provided to identify and suggest other related applications or services having the same or similar achievement level criteria.

Therefore there is a need for an approach for enabling mobile device users to aggregate activity information to determine advancement criteria for one or more services or applications.

According to one embodiment a method comprises causing at least in part an aggregation of activity information associated with at least one device into at least one activity pool. The method further comprises processing and or facilitating a processing of the at least one activity pool against one or more advancement criteria associated with one or more applications one or more services or a combination thereof to determine one or more recommendations with respect to the one or more applications the one or more services or a combination thereof.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code for one or more computer programs the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part an aggregation of activity information associated with at least one device into at least one activity pool. The apparatus is further caused to process and or facilitate a processing of the at least one activity pool against one or more advancement criteria associated with one or more applications one or more services or a combination thereof to determine one or more recommendations with respect to the one or more applications the one or more services or a combination thereof.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carries one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to aggregate activity information associated with at least one device into at least one activity pool. The apparatus is further caused to process and or facilitate a processing of the at least one activity pool against one or more advancement criteria associated with one or more applications one or more services or a combination thereof to determine one or more recommendations with respect to the one or more applications the one or more services or a combination thereof.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for causing at least in part an aggregation of activity information associated with at least one device into at least one activity pool. The apparatus further comprises means for processing and or facilitating a processing of the at least one activity pool against one or more advancement criteria associated with one or more applications one or more services or a combination thereof to determine one or more recommendations with respect to the one or more applications the one or more services or a combination thereof.

In addition for various example embodiments of the invention the following is applicable a method comprising facilitating a processing of and or processing 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal the 1 data and or 2 information and or 3 at least one signal based at least in part on or derived at least in part from any one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating access to at least one interface configured to allow access to at least one service the at least one service configured to perform any one or any combination of network or service provider methods or processes disclosed in this application.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising facilitating creating and or facilitating modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

For various example embodiments of the invention the following is also applicable a method comprising creating and or modifying 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality the 1 at least one device user interface element and or 2 at least one device user interface functionality based at least in part on data and or information resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention and or at least one signal resulting from one or any combination of methods or processes disclosed in this application as relevant to any embodiment of the invention.

In various example embodiments the methods or processes can be accomplished on the service provider side or on the mobile device side or in any shared way between service provider and mobile device with actions being performed on both sides.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for aggregating activity information to determine advancement criteria for one or more services or applications of a mobile device according to one embodiment are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

As noted previously many applications and services developed for mobile devices utilize current location information activity information temporal information and other real time interaction or contextual data to enable various functions and features. For example certain location based services may be configured to track the current whereabouts and travels of a given mobile device user. In addition the service may be configured to provide the user with incentives and offers based on their fulfilling of certain advancement criteria such as their presence at a given location a distance travelled visiting of specific places participation in specific events associations and interactions with other users of the service etc. All too often however the user of such services are forced to initiate the service as if they attained no level of advancement e.g. from zero visits particularly in instances where they are first registering or re registering for the service.

This same phenomenon occurs with other context or interactive services and applications including those for monitoring and logging exercise and or workout activity. For example upon installing and subsequently initiating such a tool e.g. at the same or a new device the service may indicate the user has performed no exercises workouts or any other activities this being indicated despite the user having logged years of activity information via another service. As in the prior scenario there is currently no convenient solution for enabling activity information and or associated achievement levels to be seamlessly aggregated and used for configuring applications and or services at a mobile device. Furthermore there is currently no convenient means of enabling the services applications device features or like versions thereof to be recommended to the user based on analysis of historical usage of the same or similar services applications and or device features.

To address this problem a system of introduces the capability to automatically configure an application or service for execution at a prior attained level of achievement based on the aggregation of activity information related to a user UE associated with the user various applications and or services available to the user or a combination thereof. For the purpose of illustration activity information is maintained in a database referred to herein as an activity pool and may include contextual information application use information service use information device use information or a combination thereof. Under this scenario the activity pool may house any data which may in whole or part be processed by an activity processing platform to determine a mode of use of one or more applications services or features of the UE a level rate or amount of interaction between the user and one or more applications services or features of the UE one or more trends pertaining to the use of one or more applications services or features of the UE or a combination thereof. In certain embodiments the activity processing platform employs various analysis techniques to enable such results including for example processing the data according to one or more activity recognition techniques algorithms and models .

By way of example the activity processing platform of system performs one or more of the following 1 persistently updates an activity pool related to a given user UE or a combination thereof with respect to the execution of one or more applications and or services 2 analyzes and process the activity pool such as based on one or more models to generate summary statistics for at least quantitatively determining usage of the one or more applications and or services or interaction of the user with one or more features of the UE 3 determines a correlation between the summary statistics and one or more criteria required for the user to attain a level of advancement associated with the one or more applications the one or more services and or one or more UE features 4 presents a recommendation at the UE that includes information associated with the one or more applications one or more services or a combination thereof based on the determined correlation 5 initiate install or configure the one or more applications the one or more services the one or more features or a combination thereof at a level of advancement corresponding to the criteria the summary statistics or a combination thereof 6 determine a correlation between the summary statistics the one or more applications the one or more services one or more members associated with the user of the UE or a combination thereof for affecting configuring of the one or more application the one or more services the one or more features or a combination thereof at a particular level of advancement or a combination thereof based on the historical activity information the statistics or a combination thereof.

In certain embodiments the activity processing platform determines the type of activity being performed by the user with respect to a given application or service executed via UE . As noted previously the platform maintains and analyzes the activity pool in order to determine among other things an activity type associated with the user or the UE . In addition the platform determines device feature usage information application use information service use information etc. By way of example the activity processing platform may process sensor data as gathered by sensors application log data activity log data and other data generated at a respective UE to determine whether a user is currently walking running or cycling employing an application related to walking running or cycling employing various device features for tracking monitoring data related to walking running and cycling e.g. pulse monitor heart rate monitor global positioning sensor etc. As an example the activity processing platform may process accelerometer data captured by an accelerometer sensor at a UE to perform classification between different modes of physical activity walking running driving a car etc. . The classification between physical activities can be performed with any known feature extraction and pattern recognition methods applied on the accelerometer signal. In particular in one embodiment the activity processing platform performs classification of transportation mode by extracting mel frequency cepstral coefficient features from the magnitude of the accelerometer signal. The activity processing platform may evaluate a likelihood of at least one Gaussian mixture model having generated the mel frequency cepstral coefficients and determine the activity based on the likelihood. In this case a Gaussian mixture model activity recognition model has been trained for different activities by collecting a number of accelerometer signal samples from different activities performing mel frequency cepstral coefficient feature extraction for each accelerometer sample and training a Gaussian mixture model to model the distribution of mel frequency feature vectors extracted from the samples corresponding to each activity. As another example such an activity classification may be performed by a UE and information on the classified activity may be communicated to the activity processing platform . As another example the platform may log application usage and media playback statistics via the activity pool . This data is then analyzed subsequently to determine for example user activity corresponding to music listening reading of digital content web browsing image capturing document processing etc. It is noted that any activity performed by the user or any interaction of the user with various sensors and or features of the UE may be maintained.

In the examples described above the sensor data collected by sensors of respective UE for aggregating the activity pool may include data for indicating a position speed location time orientation acceleration or a combination thereof. Sensors for gathering of such data may include a gyroscope a global positioning sensor a temporal sensor an accelerometer or the like. In addition application and service usage log data can be aggregated by the activity processing platform by interfacing with different application programming interfaces APIs at the UE . The activity processing platform may interface with the sensors or APIs periodically or continually depending on the requirements of the user. It is noted therefore that the activity pool is collected and provided to the platform for analysis based on one or more activity recognition algorithms or models . Hence data from the activity pool is provided as input to the algorithms or models for enabling analysis.

In certain embodiments the activity processing platform analyzes the activity pool to generate one or more summary statistics. The summary statistics may include for example various metrics and or values for indicating an amount level or rate of use of one or more applications one or more services or one or more features of UE e.g. rate of use of sensors by a given user. The summary statistics are therefore associated with a profile of a given user for characterizing the behavior mode of use and or interaction of the user with respect to the UE or a given application and or service. Table 1 depicts various exemplary summary statistics generated for a user. It is noted that the summary statistics will vary not only from one user to the next but by device type service provider type and the like.

Of note the statistics may be based on a compilation of data aggregated over a defined time period such as the course of a day week month year etc. For example the statistics may be generated as a rate of X pictures taken per day. Also in certain instances the amount of a given activity can be measured over a defined distance i.e. X messages sent per 100 miles travelled. In one embodiment the summary statistics may be any suitable statistical measure which summarizes or otherwise characterizes a set of activity data obtained from users. Examples include for instance a measures of location or central tendency such as the arithmetic mean geometric mean median mode or interquartile mean b measures of statistical dispersion such as standard deviation variance range interquartile range absolute deviation and or c measures of the shape of a distribution like skewness or kurtosis.

In certain embodiments the activity processing platform performs a comparison between the summary statistics compiled for a given user against criteria required for the user to attain a level of advancement associated with one or more applications one or more services or a combination thereof. The criteria may include an activity type an application type a service type a rate of usage an amount of usage a location a venue type or a combination thereof. Hence the activity processing platform identifies those services and or applications whose criteria for advancement matches up with or is fulfilled by the summary statistics associated with the user.

In certain embodiments different levels of achievement for a particular application and or service may correspond to the advancing of the user to a successive level within the application and or service. In addition the level of achievement may correspond to the accumulation or activation of one or more benefits incentives or the like such as unlocking of a bonus level within a game activating of a discount accumulation of activity points etc. By way of example a sports activity game may have requirements for advancing to different levels including walking 10 km and 20 km to advance to levels and respectively while running 30 km to 40 km corresponds to advancement to levels and respectively. When the summary statistics for the user indicates an amount of walking of 60 km the activity processing platform determines the activity is a match with advancement to level of the game.

In addition the activity processing platform may also perform translational requirement processing therefore translating a particular summary statistic of a user into its equivalent or related value or rate for fulfillment of certain advancement criteria. For instance in the above described scenario of the game the activity processing platform may determine that the 60 km of walking activity performed by the user is equivalent to or substantially related to the requirement of 40 km of running for advancement to level of the game. As another example an amount of points or incentives accumulated with respect to one application and or service may be translated into an equivalent number of points or incentives for a different application and or service. Of note the translation may be performed based on various equivalency algorithms and or values indicated by the provider of the various applications and or services.

In certain embodiments once a match is determined between the criteria and the summary statistics the activity processing platform generates a recommendation to the user regarding the activity the application and or service. For example in the previous example the activity processing platform may observe that the user would have already advanced several levels in the identified sports activity game based on last week s walking performance. Thus in this case the recommendation may include a message for indicating the advancement potential of the user one or more incentives available etc. With the amount of running you have done during the last week you would have advanced to level already in our new sports activity service. Would you like to try the service now 

The recommendation may also make reference to a contact or member of the user s social network that is also at a lower same or higher level in one or more applications and or services. Under this scenario the activity processing platform determines a correlation between the statistics of the user and those for one or more other users associated with the user. For example the recommendation may include a message for indicating the following Your friend John is already a Gold level member in Music Subscription Service X. With the amount of music you purchase per month you d be eligible to receive 20 free song downloads for you and him just by joining today. Under this scenario the user and the associated user e.g. friend are related by way of their respective summary statistics as well as a common application and or service affiliation e.g. Music Subscription Service X .

Alternatively the message may pertain to a different application and or service i.e. one not already employed by the user. For example the recommendation message may read as follows With the amount of music you purchase per month you d already be a Premier level member with ACME Movie Streaming Service. This entitles you to 30 discounts on all on demand movies. As another example the message may be presented as With the amount of Punk Rock listening and jumping you have done during the last two weeks you would already have earned the badge Master Pogo er in our collaborative music service Blibify. In the latter example the music genre category as well as the activity type are used as variables to determine the users qualifications and or correlation with the Blibify music service. In addition to the recommended action the recommendation message rendered to the user may include addition information such as incentive and offers service and or application description information registration information instructions etc.

In certain embodiments the activity processing platform may maintain a list of services providers respective applications and services associated with the services providers and the various criteria associated therewith. The service providers may update the list periodically such as via a registration procedure with the activity processing platform or in conjunction with a partnership data sharing arrangement with the provider of the activity processing platform . As such the statistics of the user in the activity pool are automatically compared to level advancement criteria of various multi user applications and games seamlessly without requiring user intervention or user initiated searching. Alternatively various search procedures may be executed for identifying applications and or services via a communication network based on the summary statistics.

Still further the activity processing platform may also provide an application programming interface API for the various services providers to access the activity pool for use in configuring new UE or for installing reinstalling applications. For example when a user buys a new UE and begins the service activation process the user may be prompted by the activity processing platform to provide credentials for accessing the platform . The activity processing platform then uses these credentials to permit the device to access the activity pool and subsequently update for example the running statistics for the same or a different sports program available on the new UE . By way of this approach the user is able to execute the same or different sports program in connection with the aggregated running statistics rather than with no statistics at all. It is noted that various data aggregation data mining and data fetching methods may be employed for enabling the data to be provided to the new UE .

In certain embodiments the activity processing platform also enables the automated launching installing or configuring of one or more applications one or more services or a combination thereof at a prior attained level of advancement. In addition the platform may enable one or more applications to be launched installed or configured at a higher level of advancement depending on the activity pool and subsequent summary statistics determined for the user. In the latter scenario the past performance and use information of the user obtained from the summary statistics of various activities is used to update the user status to an advanced level immediately upon entry to the service or application. Hence the summary statistics are correlated to the higher level of advancement such that subsequent or first time initiation of the application results in the user being associated with the higher level accordingly. Similarly summary statistics may be used to establish an existing advancement level of the user in response to a reinstall of an application and or service migration to a different UE etc.

For example in the case of a user activating a sports activity related service the user may be readily promoted to level rather than having to start from the very beginning of the service e.g. as if no activity were ever logged for the user . Under this scenario the summary statistics are determined to correlate to the higher level of advancement. Alternatively the summary statistics may be analyzed to determine at least a prior level of advancement of the user or an update to the prior current level of advancement of the user. By way of example the user may receive various newly introduced incentives and or offers associated with their current Level thus requiring no update initiation on the part of the user. It is noted that this automated procedure may optionally be performed in conjunction with the processing of profile information maintained for the user. In this case the profile information may be used to establish a prior level of advancement while the summary statistics enable the updating of various incentives and offers.

As shown in the system comprises user equipment UE having connectivity to the activity processing platform via a communication network . By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network a wireless network a telephony network or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

The UE is any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer personal communication system PCS device personal navigation device personal digital assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. .

By way of example the UE activity processing platform and various services communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 headers as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

The aforementioned modules of the event determination platform may also access one or more databases and for performing various executions. This includes for example an activity models database for storing one or more models or algorithms for recognizing activity information maintained in an activity pool . Also a list database may also be accessed for acquiring a list of criteria associated with one or more applications and or one or more services. It is noted that a separate profile database not shown may be further associated with the various services to which the user may be subscribed.

In one embodiment an authentication module authenticates users and user devices for interaction with the activity processing platform . By way of example the authentication module receives a request to subscribe to the activity processing platform for enabling the identification and configuration of applications and services based on aggregated activity information for a user. The subscription process may include for example establishing one or more applications and or services UE is currently executing. One or more privacy settings and or preferences may also be established including a restriction on the sharing of details regarding content e.g. music consumed by the UE . Preferences and settings information may be referenced to a specific user UE or combination thereof and maintained as profile data related to the user.

The authentication process performed by the module may also include receiving and validating a login name and or user identification value as provided or established for a particular user during a subscription or registration process with the service provider. In addition the login name and or user identifier may be received as credentials for permitting access of a requesting UE to the activity pool maintained in connection with a given user. The login name and or user identification value may be received as input provided by the user from UE or from another device via a graphical user interface to the platform e.g. as enabled by user interface module . Alternatively the login process may be performed through automated association of profile settings maintained as registration data with an IP address a carrier detection signal of a user device mobile directory number MDN subscriber identity module SIM e.g. of a SIM card radio frequency identifier RFID tag or other identifier.

The authentication module may also be configured to login to various services to which a user is subscribed in response to the determining of a correlation between a given service and or application and summary statistics generated for a user. Under this scenario the authentication module may cause execution of the user interface module for executing the required application programming interfaces APIs that permit rendering and configuring of applications and or services at an associated level of advancement.

In one embodiment the activity recognition module employs the activity models to determine the type of activity performed by the user with respect to one or more features of the UE one or more services one or more applications or a combination thereof. By way of example the activity recognition module performs context sensing and activity logging and can be adapted to process activity information depending on the type of sensor employed to gather the activity information. For example the activity recognition module may process location data based on various location or distance determination algorithms while processing motion or movement data according to various position and or orientation determination techniques. It is further noted that the activity recognition module may be configured to discern a specific calling application or service associated with a given sensor type such as for correlating a given sensor and or feature of the UE with the application and or service.

In one embodiment the activity recognition module operates in connection with the statistics generation module to determine one or more summary statistics related to a user. The summary statistics may be generated based at least in part on the determined activity type. The statistics may be generated in various forms for indicating usage of an application a service one or more features of a mobile device or a combination thereof by a user of the mobile device. This may include statistics representing a rate of use a mode of use a usage context or the like associated with a particular service and or application. It is noted that the statistics may be generated based on the aggregation of the activity pool over a given period of time. In certain instances the statistic generation module may trigger the accessing of activity information sensor data and the like by the activity recognition module according to a predetermined frequency.

The statistic generation module may also operate in connection with the matching module to determine the various applications and or services whose selection criteria match the aggregated summary statistics for the user. Under this scenario the matching module retrieves information and or accesses data regarding said applications and or services from a list maintained in the list database . Alternatively the matching module may perform a search via the communication network for one or more applications and or services that match the summary statistics.

Criteria for performing the match may include correlating the summary statistics against an activity type an application type a service type a rate of usage an amount of usage a location a venue type or a combination thereof. In addition to identifying matching applications and or services the matching module may further identify a level of advancement the user qualifies for based on the correlation between the summary statistics and the criteria. For example the matching module may identify that a number of points a level of activity a rate of use etc. may be sufficient to correspond to a level of attainment within one or more services and or applications. This may include performing translational processing whereby an amount of activity incentives points or other quantified value for one application is translated into an equivalent amount of activity incentives points for a different application and or service. Of note the translation may be performed based on various equivalency algorithms and or values indicated by the provider of the various applications and or services i.e. via the list data .

Still further the matching module may determine a match between the summary statistics of a user and that of one or more friends acquaintances or other contacts affiliated with the user. Under this scenario the matching module may access a social networking service of which the user is registered to determine that the user and the other users are commonly affiliated with the same or similar applications and or services. By way of this approach recommendations may be generated for indicating the common association between the user and the one or more other users in addition to common activity type and application and or service use.

Based on the matching the module may generate a recommendation for display to the user in conjunction with the user interface module . In certain embodiments the user interface module facilitates presentment of a graphical user interface for presenting event recommendations to the user in response to a determined correlation between the summary statistics and criteria for advancement for a given application and or service. By way of example the user interface module generates the interface in response to application programming interfaces APIs or other function calls corresponding to the application of UE thus enabling the display of graphics primitives such as message prompts buttons data entry fields etc. Also the user interface module facilitates the rendering of notification messages for conveying details regarding the various matching applications and or services.

In certain embodiments the settings module may be configured to jumpstart e.g. initialize or configure the various matching applications and or services. This includes those applications and or services selected for activation by the user based on a provided recommendation. In addition the settings module enables automated configuration of an application and or service based on a prior or higher attained level of advancement for the user in response to an initial installing or reinstalling of an application i.e. activation of a new UE for the user. By way of this approach the past performance of the user obtained from the summary statistics of various activities is used to update the user status to the prior or advanced level immediately when the user enters the service. It is noted that this eliminates the need for the user to have to repeat the various activities corresponding to a certain level of advancement as the summary statistics are seamlessly integrated for use within the application and or service.

Still further the settings module may operate in connection with the matching module to provide an application programming interface API for providers of various applications and or service to utilize the activity pool of respective users. Under this approach different device manufacturers or service providers may process the activity information to facilitate initialization installation and or configuration of new devices services or applications at a corresponding level of advancement. By way of example when a user buys a new mobile device e.g. UE the settings module may call upon the authentication module and user interface module to facilitate the entry of access credentials such as a username and password for the activity pool data corresponding to the user. Once validated by the authentication module the settings module accesses the pool and updates the activity information and statistics for the same or similar application type on the new mobile device.

In one embodiment a communication module enables formation of a session over a network between the activity processing platform and the services that maintain various registered event databases . By way of example the communication module executes various protocols and data sharing techniques for enabling collaborative execution between a subscriber s UE e.g. mobile devices laptops smartphones tablet computers desktop computers and the event determination platform over the network . It is noted that the communication module is also configured to support a browser session i.e. the retrieval of content as referenced by a resource identifier during a specific period of time or usage of the browser. The browser session may support execution of a configuration interface for enabling a user to specify various settings for interacting with the event determination module and their respective services e.g. social networking services they are subscribed to.

The above presented modules and components of the activity processing platform can be implemented in hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. Though depicted as a separate entity in it is contemplated that the activity processing platform may be implemented for direct operation by respective UEs . As such the activity processing platform may generate direct signal inputs by way of the operating system of the UE for interacting with the application and accessing services . In another embodiment one or more of the modules may be implemented for operation by respective UE as a platform or hosted solution e.g. cloud service wherein the various applications and or services determined to match summary statistics of a user are pulled from a host cloud. Still further the activity processing platform may be integrated for direct operation with a service such as in the form of a widget or applet in accordance with an information and or subscriber sharing arrangement. The various executions presented herein contemplate any and all arrangements.

In step of process the activity processing platform causes an aggregation of activity information associated with at least one device into at least one activity pool. As noted previously the activity information includes at least in part contextual information application use information service use information device use information sensor data or a combination thereof. In step the platform processes the at least one activity pool against one or more advancement criteria associated with one or more applications and or one or more services to determine one or more recommendations with respect to the one or more applications and or the one or more services. The advancement criteria may be based on various factors and may include for example determining a rate or amount of usage of an application and or service a type or mode of usage of an application service or device a usage context e.g. a location or venue type or a combination thereof. Of note the activity pool is processed against a list of applications and or services or used to initiate a search procedure via a communication network. Per step the platform processes the at least one activity pool against the one or more advancement criteria to determine a level within the one or more applications and or the one or more services that can be achieved and or has been achieved.

In step of process the activity processing platform processes the at least one activity pool to determine one or more summary statistics. Of note the one or more recommendations i.e. for corresponding applications and or services are determined based at least in part on the one or more summary statistics. As noted previously the summary statistics may include various metrics values e.g. ratios determined based on aggregation of the activity pool of a user for a period of time. By way of example the summary statistics may include data for indicating a rate or amount of use of an application service one or more features of a mobile device e.g. sensors or a combination thereof. It is further contemplated that a shared activity pool corresponding to multiple different users that interact with respect to a common application and or service e.g. a multi player game may also be accessed for determining group summary statistics. Under this scenario the advancement of multiple associated users may be accounted for by the activity processing platform for facilitating team and or group advancement.

In step the platform causes a comparison of the at least one activity pool against usage information associated with one or more other devices. Of note the usage information is based on that determined from the summary statistics including a correlation between the summary statistics of different users. Per step the platform determines the one or more other devices based on social networking information. Hence the one or more recommendations are based at least in part on the comparison wherein the recommendation may include a message for detailing which other users within the social network correspond to the one or more devices. It is noted that the platform therefore enables a device user to identify how friends are advancing with respect to the applications and or services being recommended.

In step of process the application processing platform causes a configuration of the one or more applications and or services based on the determined level. By way of example when it is determined from the summary statistics of the user that a level of attainment has been previously achieved for an application and or service this level is automatically applied to the recommended application and or service. In certain embodiments this may include translating the prior achieved level to an equivalent level of attainment for the recommended application and or service. Hence points achieve for running activity totaling 5000 within a running based application may be translated into 3000 points for a travel based application. As another example a Master Sergeant ranking in a first video game may translate to a Lieutenant General ranking for a second video game.

Per step the platform causes an initiation of the configuration based on a an execution of the one or more applications the one or more services or a combination thereof b an installation of the one or more applications the one or more services or a combination thereof c an activation of at least one new device or d a combination thereof. Hence the configuration is carried forth without any intervention required from the user or reestablishment by the user of new activity information.

In step of process the activity processing platform causes a transfer of at least a portion of data in the at least one activity pool to the one or more applications and or the one or more services. Per step the platform causes a presentation of the one or more recommendations based on a reduction of use for one or more other applications and or one or more services that are similar to the recommended one or more applications and or the recommended one or more services. Hence the platform supports cross functional and cross genre application and or service support wherein applications and or services having differing functional uses contextual characteristics and or market appeals may be aligned with one another to facilitate automated level advancement configuration and recommending thereof.

In the activity processing platform gathers activity information and associated context information for aggregating the activity pool of a user as the user employs various applications and or services. In this example the activity processing platform collects activity information as the user accesses an online video service via a communication network. The monitoring action is indicated to the user by way of a notification prompt that reads MONITORING which occurs concurrent with execution of the service optional . Activity and context information gathered for aggregation of the pool may include temporal information such as the amount of time spent viewing movies a frequency of movie viewing details regarding the movie e.g. genre category rating director originating movie studio location information corresponding to viewing of a movie context information for indicating the current environment of the user e.g. a friend s home etc. Still further information regarding the various sensors or features of the device used to execute the service i.e. a network detection sensor and light sensor may also be compiled for generating the activity pool. It is noted that the activity information is gathered conspicuously without causing interruption of the movie .

At a later time activity information and corresponding context information is aggregated in connection with the execution of a camera application of the mobile device . As in the above example a notification prompt indicates that data is being monitored. It is noted that the monitoring activity of the activity processing platform may be performed for a period of time established by the user or in accordance with a default period of time.

Once the activity pool is generated the activity processing platform generates summary statistics for characterizing the use of the mobile device the various applications and or services associated therewith the various features of the mobile device the activity types associated with use of the applications and or services etc. Still further the summary statistics are then used to identify one or more applications and or services having criteria for advancement that corresponds to the summary statistics as determined for the user. The summary statistics may also be used to identify one or more associated users such as members of a common social network whose summary statistics application and or service use or the like correspond to that of the user. More regarding these characteristics is discussed later on herein.

In the user employs a tourist service that employs various location based services to enable is various functions. By way of example the tourist service tracks and monitors the travels of a user as they visit various venues recommended by the service according to a particular order. Successful completion of visits to the recommended locations according to the specified sequence within a defined period of time unlocks an incentive or offer for the user. In this case the incentive corresponds to a discounted restaurant visit. Under this scenario the user successfully visits several of the recommended venues sites on a first day labeled Day with completion being indicated by a checkmark e.g. at a corresponding venue. The user then retires for the day with plans to complete the rest of the journey the next day. Unfortunately the next day the mobile device experiences a technical malfunction that requires the user to reset the device to its original settings prior to activating of the tourist service for execution at the mobile device e.g. installation of a corresponding application that interacts with the service .

Rather than requiring the user to revisit the various venues upon reactivation of the tourist service the activity processing platform accesses the activity pool of the user to automatically configure the corresponding application i.e. based on the summary statistics. Hence the statistics related to the user are used to update the application to the prior attained level of advancement immediately upon entry. Under this example the venues corresponding to Day as well as any associated benefits are readily reduced to practice.

Still further at a later time of use of the application corresponding to a map view the user is presented with a notification message for presenting a recommendation for a different but related application and or service. The recommendation is generated in response to a determination of a match between the determined summary statistics for the user relative to the tourist service and various other applications and or services whose criteria correlate to the statistics. By way of example therefore the message indicates the user is eligible for benefits i.e. corresponding to their particular level of advancement within the travel service for switching to a different travel service called TravelPro .

In addition to generating recommendations based on applications and or services having matching level advancement criteria or the like the recommendation may also make reference to one or more members of a social network of the user. Under this scenario the summary statistics generated for the user are compared to those generated for the other users to determine a similarity in application and or service use one or more common or related levels of advancement etc. The recommendation message in this case indicates that two members of the user s social network are already members of the recommended alternative travel service. In addition avatars such as avatar for representing the various members are presented to the display as well.

It is noted that reference to the various members of the user s social network may serve as a further incentive and or enticement for the user to take advantage of the recommendation. Under this scenario the user may respond affirmatively to the recommendation message by selecting a GO action button or reject the recommendation by selecting the EXIT action button .

In the user is shown to employ a workout tracking application which allows the user to accumulate points Workpoints based on a number of miles travelled. Under this scenario having generated the summary statistics with respect to this application it is determined the user would have already advanced several levels in a game whose criteria corresponds to the summary statistics. Hence a recommendation message is generated by the activity processing platform that indicates the following With the amount of miles you log daily you d already be a Ranger in the game World of Walkcraft. Your friend Mike S. is currently a Boyscout in the game. Would you like to download the game now 

As noted above the recommendation message makes reference to a member of the user s social network as well as that member s corresponding level within the recommended application. Furthermore the application makes reference to a specific level of advancement within the recommended application that the user may qualify for immediately if they were to perform the download. It is noted that the Workpoints may be determined to correspond to the recommended level of advancement e.g. Ranger within World of Walkcraft based on various correlation factors and other criteria. Among these the platform may also process the Workpoints of the workout tracking application for translation to an equivalent value with respect to the recommended game.

In this case the user may respond to the recommendation by selecting the GO action button to initiate downloading of the recommended application. Alternatively the user may select the EXIT action button to cancel the message and resume use of the workout tracking application. While not shown additional recommendation messages corresponding to various other qualifying applications and or services may also presented to the user. It is further contemplated that the qualifying applications may also be presented in the form of a list for enabling user selection of a particular application a particular associated level of advancement or a combination thereof.

In a mobile device accesses an activity pool for the user to enable automated configuration of one or more applications and or services. Under this scenario the configuration is performed in connection with the initial activation of a new mobile device of the user. For the purpose of illustration the new mobile device is a different model of phone related to the same user who owned mobile phone .

Per this initial activation a setup message is presented wherein the user is given the option to activate a link for launching a settings view of the new mobile device . The settings view enables the user to select from various categories of settings options to configure and per the activity processing platform includes a GET ACTIVITY settings option . The GET ACTIVITY settings option enables the user to login to the activity processing platform via the new phone for accessing the various data maintained in the activity pool for the for user. Under this scenario the activity pool may be used to configure the same or similar applications and services of the new device with the same or equivalent level of advancement as the user s prior mobile device e.g. mobile device .

Upon selecting the GET ACTIVITY settings option the user is presented with a dialogue prompt for enabling the user to enter various activity processing platform credentials. This includes for example a data entry field for receiving a login name as well as another data entry field or receiving a password. The user may cancel the data entry process by selecting the NO action button . Alternatively the user may select the GO action button to initiate contact with the platform based on the credentials entered at fields and . In the case of the workout tracking application on the prior mobile phone e.g. for example the same or similar workout tracking application at the new device may be updated such that the accumulated Workpoints are shown at the new mobile device .

It is noted in the above example that the application processing platform may in certain embodiments provide an application programming interface API for providers of applications services and mobile devices to access the activity pool in the manner described. By way of this approach any device manufacturer software developer or service providers can readily access relevant activity pool data for use in connection with any device of a user.

In the activity processing platform facilitates the generation of recommendation messages pertaining to the changing of service providers and or their associated products. This is depicted for example in by way of a recommendation message which reads as follows Did you know you can keep using Service B as usual with a new phone from Service Provider A Click the link to receive a great deal when you swap your old phone. Under this scenario the message is intended to encourage a device switch to Service Provider A wherein the activity pool data can be readily transferred to the new service. The use may reject the recommendation by selecting a close button or accept the offer by activating a link .

In the case where the link is activated to initiate the purchase and or configuring of a new device via Service Provider A the activity processing platform enables migration of the various settings and or advancement levels of relevant applications to the new device. As a result when the user first activates the new device the various applications of the new device that are indicated with respect to the activity pool are configured for reduction to practice in the same manner as the prior device.

The processes described herein for enabling mobile device users to aggregate activity information to determine advancement criteria for one or more services or applications may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to enable mobile device users to aggregate activity information to determine advancement criteria for one or more services or applications. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or any other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for enabling mobile device users to aggregate activity information to determine advancement criteria for one or more services or applications. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or any other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for enabling mobile device users to aggregate activity information to determine advancement criteria for one or more services or applications is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user a microphone an Infrared IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen a touch screen or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic LED OLED display a plasma screen or a printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse a trackball cursor direction keys or a motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of ASICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for enabling mobile device users to aggregate activity information to determine advancement criteria for one or more services or applications to the UE .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example twisted pair cables coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM an EEPROM a flash memory any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or any other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA one or more controllers or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to enable mobile device users to aggregate activity information to determine advancement criteria for one or more services or applications. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of enabling mobile device users to aggregate activity information to determine advancement criteria for one or more services or applications. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like or any combination thereof.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone any other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to enable mobile device users to aggregate activity information to determine advancement criteria for one or more services or applications. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage magnetic disk storage flash memory storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

