---

title: Gas turbine engine with supersonic compressor
abstract: A gas turbine engine having a compressor section using blades on a rotor to deliver a gas at supersonic conditions to a stator. The stator includes one or more of aerodynamic ducts that have converging and diverging portions for deceleration of the gas to subsonic conditions and to deliver a high pressure gas to combustors. The aerodynamic ducts include structures for changing the effective contraction ratio to enable starting even when designed for high pressure ratios, and structures for boundary layer control. In an embodiment, aerodynamic ducts are provided having an aspect ratio of two to one (2:1) or more, when viewed in cross-section orthogonal to flow direction at an entrance to the aerodynamic duct.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09163521&OS=09163521&RS=09163521
owner: Dresser-Rand Company
number: 09163521
owner_city: Olean
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120706
---
This invention was made with United States Government support under Contract No. DE FE0000493 awarded by the United States Department of Energy. The United States Government has certain rights in the invention.

This application cross references co pending U.S. Provisional Patent Applications each of which was filed on Jul. 9 2011 as U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 506 055 for a SUPERSONIC COMPRESSOR and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 506 064 for a GAS TURBINE ENGINE WITH SUPERSONIC COMPRESSOR and U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 506 073 for a GAS TURBINE ENGINE each of which co pending U.S. applications are incorporated herein in their entirety by this reference.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

This description relates to gas turbine engines and more particularly to gas turbine engines which include gas compression sections which are designed to utilize supersonic shock compression.

A continuing interest exists in industry for improved gas turbine engines. Gas turbine engines continue to be useful in a wide variety of applications. Operational costs could be substantially improved in many applications by adoption of an improved gas turbine engine that would increase operating efficiency as compared to currently utilized gas turbine designs. Further from the point of view of maintenance costs it would be desirable to develop improved gas turbine engine designs that would reduce the mass of rotating components since such rotating components are costly when replacement or repair becomes necessary as compared to non rotating parts which although subject to stress and strain from temperature and pressure are not subject to additional loads due to rotary motion. Thus it can be appreciated that it would be advantageous to provide a new high efficiency gas turbine engine design which minimizes moving parts. Generally it would be advantageous to provide more horsepower with less weight. And more specifically it would be advantageous to provide small gas turbines having a relatively high overall efficiency particularly in the one half to three megawatt range

A key component of gas turbine engines is the compressor section. Although supersonic compressors have been contemplated for use in gas turbine engines there remain various technical problems in the field and with respect to which better solutions are required in order to improve operational capability and compression efficiency. In particular although relatively low pressure ratio supersonic compressors have been proposed for gas turbine engines there still remains a need for compressors for gas turbine engines that can be easily started yet be operated at high compression ratios. Further it would be advantageous to avoid configurations that present moving shocks such as between moving blades between moving and fixed blades or between moving and fixed walls in order to more simply achieve stability for a normal shock at a selected location in the compressor section of a gas turbine engine.

In short there remains a need to provide a design for a gas turbine engine with a high pressure ratio supersonic compressor that simultaneously resolves various practical problems including a providing for starting of a compressor designed for high pressure ratio operation so as to enable control of a normal shock at an effective location in a supersonic diffuser when configured as a stator and designed for high pressure ratio and efficient compression b avoiding excessive numbers of leading edge structures such as may be encountered in prior art multi bladed stators and minimizing other losses encountered by a high velocity supersonic gas stream upon entering a stator and c providing for effective boundary layer control especially as related to retention of a normal shock at a desirable location in order to achieve high compression ratios in an efficient manner.

A novel gas turbine engine has been developed that in an embodiment utilizes a supersonic compressor that may be provided in a compact footprint and in which the total mass and therefore the number of rotating parts has been minimized. In an embodiment the compact design may reduce bearing span which may be a significant advantage in first cost and or maintenance costs. In an embodiment the compressor of the gas turbine utilizes impulse blades on a rotor to develop gas velocity in an incoming gas stream to accelerate the incoming gas stream tangentially and axially and to deliver gas flow at supersonic flow conditions to a stator. The stator is a diffuser that includes a plurality of stationary aerodynamic ducts that utilize shock wave generating compression ramps for decelerating incoming gas. An expansion ramp is utilized to diffuse the incoming gas and recover pressure. In an embodiment a design utilizes aerodynamic ducts which minimizes the total number of leading edges and which minimizes the length of leading edges exposed to an incoming flow of gas at supersonic conditions. In an embodiment the aerodynamic ducts may be wrapped about a surface of revolution that extends along a longitudinal axis for example a selected cylindrical shape or selected partial conical shape. In various embodiments aerodynamic ducts may be provided in helical helicoidal or spiral configurations. In an embodiment aerodynamic ducts may be provided in a shape having a relatively constant helical angle. In an embodiment aerodynamic ducts may be provided along a centerline in the configuration of a general helix in that the ratio of curvature to torsion is constant. Alternately aerodynamic ducts may be provided in a conical helix configuration in the form of a slight spiral as if located over an underlying conic surface. In various embodiments aerodynamic ducts may be either right handed or left handed. In an embodiment entrance throats of the aerodynamic ducts may be oriented substantially in concert with the direction of high velocity supersonic gas leaving an impulse rotor directed toward the stator. A series of oblique shocks and a normal shock may be utilized within aerodynamic ducts to efficiently transform the high velocity incoming gas flow to a high pressure subsonic gas flow. Subsequent to a stator the high pressure gas is directed to a combustor. After the combustor the resultant hot combustion gases are expanded through one or more turbine stages for recovery of shaft power. In an embodiment the one or more turbine stages may be provided by axial gas turbines.

For starting supersonic shocks in a compressor for a gas turbine engine a stator may include bypass gas outlets for removal of a portion of the incoming gas flow to an extent that facilitates the establishment of supersonic shocks within the stator consistent with a design point for a selected compression ratio inlet Mach number and mass flow of a selected gas. In an embodiment the bypass gas outlets may be utilized for recycle of a portion of incoming gas. In an embodiment particularly for the gas turbine applications involving compression of ambient air the bypass gas may be simply discharged to the atmosphere. Or an adjustable internal bypass passageway may be provided for example using doors that are actuated to an open position during startup but which remain closed during normal operation to allow a portion of incoming gas to escape downstream of the throat of the aerodynamic duct while remaining within an aerodynamic duct. In an embodiment the gas compressor may provide geometrically adjustable portions in aerodynamic ducts to change the quantity of incoming gas flow area through the stator in order to start and establish stable supersonic shock operation. In an embodiment both starting bypass gas outlets and geometrically adjustable portions may be utilized.

For minimization of adverse aerodynamic effects and for improving efficiency of gas flow through a stator one or more boundary layer control structures may be utilized. Such boundary layer control structures may be selected from one or more types of boundary layer control techniques including removal of a portion of gas flow via boundary layer extraction or bleed or by energizing a boundary layer by boundary layer gas injection or by energizing a boundary layer by mixing such as by use of vortex generators. In an embodiment the vortex generators may generate multiple vortices wherein a larger vortex rotates a simultaneously generated adjacent and smaller vortex toward and thence into a boundary layer and thus controls such boundary layer as the smaller vortex mixes with the boundary layer.

In an embodiment the compressor of a gas turbine engine as described herein may have multiple gas paths that is multiple aerodynamic ducts for generating supersonic shock waves and for allowing subsonic diffusion downstream of a throat portion. Since in an embodiment supersonic shocks may be located within stationary structures such as along a stationary ramp portion of an aerodynamic duct the control of shock location is greatly simplified as compared to various prior art supersonic compressor designs where shocks are located between structures within rotors or between adjacent rotors or between rotors and adjacent stationary structures such as circumferential walls.

Further the location of shocks within stator i.e. stationary diffuser avoids parasitic losses that are present in prior art designs due to drag resulting from the rotational movement of various rotor components. More fundamentally an embodiment of the gas turbine compressor design disclosed herein develops high compression ratios with very few aerodynamic leading edge structures particularly stationary structures protruding into the supersonic flow path. In part such improvement is achieved because a design is provided in which the number of aerodynamic ducts is minimized. In an embodiment only a single leading edge is provided per aerodynamic duct and thus the number of leading edge surfaces interposed into a supersonic flow stream is minimized. Consequently the compressor design s disclosed herein have the potential to provide highly efficient gas turbines especially when such compressors operate at high compression ratios in a single compression stage. For example and without limitation the gas turbine compressor designs disclosed herein may utilize compressors operating at compression ratios in a single stage of up to about four to one 4 1 or at least about four to one 4 1 or at least about six to one 6 1 or from between about six to one to about ten to one about 6 1 to about 10 1 or up to about twelve and one half to one 12.5 1 or up to about twenty to one 20 1 or higher.

Finally many variations in gas flow configurations particularly in detailed rotor blade geometry and in detailed stator geometry may be made by those skilled in the art and to whom this specification is directed without departing from the teachings hereof.

The foregoing figures being merely exemplary contain various elements that may be present or omitted from actual gas turbine engine designs and in particular for such gas turbine engines utilizing supersonic compressor designs according to the principles taught herein. Other designs may use slightly different aerodynamic structures mechanical arrangements or process flow configurations and yet employ the principles described herein or depicted in the drawing figures provided. An attempt has been made to draw the figures in a way that illustrates at least those elements that are significant for an understanding of an exemplary gas turbine engine utilizing a supersonic compressor. Such details should be useful for providing an efficient gas turbine engine design for use in industrial systems.

It should be understood that various features may be utilized in accord with the teachings hereof as may be useful in different embodiments as necessary or useful for various gas turbine engine applications depending upon the conditions of service such as temperatures and pressures of gas being processed within the scope and coverage of the teaching herein as defined by the claims.

The following detailed description and the accompanying figures of the drawing to which it refers are provided describing and illustrating some examples and specific embodiments of various aspects of the novel gas turbine engines set forth herein and are not for the purpose of exhaustively describing all possible embodiments and examples of various aspects of the such gas turbine engines as described and claimed below. Thus this detailed description does not and should not be construed in any way to limit the scope of the gas turbine engines claimed in this document.

To facilitate the understanding of the subject matter disclosed herein a number of terms abbreviations or other shorthand nomenclature are used as set forth herein below. Such definitions are intended only to complement the usage common to those of skill in the art. Any term abbreviation or shorthand nomenclature not otherwise defined shall be understood to have the ordinary meaning as used by those skilled artisans contemporaneous with the first filing of this document.

In this disclosure the term aerodynamic should be understood to include not only the handling of air but also the handling of other gases within the compression and related equipment otherwise described. Thus more broadly the term aerodynamic should be considered herein to include gas dynamic principles for gases other than air. For example although ambient air may be compressed using the compressor section of the apparatus described certain gas turbine engine applications exist for other gaseous mixtures some including certain gaseous fuel components and or containing other oxidants and thus as applicable the term aerodynamic duct shall also include the compression of gases or gas mixtures other than ambient air in what may be considered a gas dynamic duct.

The term stator or stationary diffuser may be used to describe an apparatus designed to reduce the velocity and increase the pressure of a gas entering at supersonic velocity. A stator or stationary diffuser may employ one or more aerodynamic ducts which when multiple aerodynamic ducts are used divide the incoming gas into smaller flows for processing. Such aerodynamic ducts may include a a supersonic portion which may be in the form of a converging portion generally of decreasing cross sectional area and which receives gas at supersonic velocity and creates oblique shocks b a throat portion at or in which in a minimal throat cross sectional area is provided and c a subsonic portion which may be in the form of a diverging portion of increasing cross section toward a final cross sectional area and which allows kinetic energy from gas velocity to be converted into static pressure of the gas.

The term impulse blade s may be used to describe blades used to accelerate the flow of gas having a characteristic geometry wherein kinetic energy is imparted to the gas passing therethrough and at a theoretical limit no pressure increase is imparted to the gas passing therethrough. Thus in impulse blades as described herein the work done on a gas flow by impulse blades results predominantly in an increase in velocity rather than predominantly in an increase in pressure. The velocity increase of a gas flow through impulse blades is achieved by change of direction of the gas flow.

The term inlet may be used herein to define an opening designed for receiving fluid flow and more specifically the flow of gas. For example in an aerodynamic duct for a stator in a compressor section of a gas turbine the aerodynamic duct has an inlet having an inlet cross sectional area that is shaped to capture and ingest gas to be compressed. Inlets may have a large variety of shapes and a few exemplary shapes are provided herein.

The term startup may be used to define the process of initiating gas flow in aerodynamic ducts and achieving stable supersonic flow of gas through a converging portion and into at least some of a diverging portion of generally increasing cross sectional area extending downstream from a throat of an aerodynamic duct. More specifically startup is the achievement of a condition wherein shock waves defining the boundary between supersonic and subsonic conditions of gas flow are stabilized at a desired location in an aerodynamic duct given the mass flow inlet Mach number and pressure ratio for a selected gas composition being compressed. In general various structures and or systems as described herein may be used for startup in order to conduct the process of initiating operation and establishing a stable shock system in aerodynamic ducts. In various embodiments geometrically adjustable portions may be provided allowing for a shock to be swallowed through a throat in an aerodynamic duct to thereby start the aerodynamic duct. In other embodiments aerodynamic ducts may be configured to allow external discharge of a portion of the gas flow thereto in order to provide for startup again by allowing a shock to be swallowed through a throat in an aerodynamic duct. In other embodiments aerodynamic ducts may be configured to allow a portion of the gas flow thereto to internally bypass the throat and return to the aerodynamic duct downstream of the throat. Such gas flow may be reintroduced into a diverging portion of an aerodynamic duct. In an embodiment reduced gas flow through the throat of an aerodynamic duct allows for starting of the aerodynamic duct. In other embodiments increased gas flow through an aerodynamic duct such as by way of a door to temporarily enlarge the effective cross sectional area at a throat may allow for starting of the aerodynamic duct. The performance of the aerodynamic ducts when in a startup configuration would be roughly the same as might be found in an aerodynamic duct without adjustable gas flow and having the same effective contraction ratio in other words the degree of blockage of the aerodynamic duct for example as in a fixed geometry aerodynamic duct. However once startup is achieved and stable supersonic flow is established bypass valves gates doors or other structures employed to provide for bypass of some gas around the converging portion or to provide increased throat cross sectional area may be closed or returned to an operating position or operating condition. Thereafter in an operational configuration a gas turbine compressor section as described herein provides aerodynamic ducts wherein a high pressure ratio recovery is achieved even when a single stage of compression is employed.

The term un start condition may be used herein to describe a flow condition under which gas to be compressed flows through an inlet much less effectively than under compressor design conditions and wherein some or even most of entering gas may be rejected from the inlet instead of being properly ingested for effective operation of the compressor. In various embodiments during an un start condition supersonic flow conditions with stable shocks would not be properly established at their design range locations within an aerodynamic duct.

Attention is directed to which illustrates a cross sectional view for a compact gas turbine engine . The gas turbine engine may utilize a supersonic compressor section and a gas turbine section including a combustor which may include one or more burners such as can annular burners to burn fuel provided thereto from a fuel supply not shown and to produce as products of combustion hot pressurized exhaust gases . The hot pressurized exhaust gases are then directed to for passage therethrough the gas turbine to produce shaft power. A portion of the power produced may be transmitted to the compressor section via a shaft for compression of an incoming selected oxidant containing gas such as ambient air. The gas turbine section may include one or more gas turbines and as such may include gas turbine rotors and with rotor blades and and adjancent stator blades and respectively see for details for expansion of hot products of combustion that is combustion gases to extract shaft power and to produce an exhaust gas . In an embodiment a supersonic compressor section may utilize a rotor having an axis of rotation and driving shaft and have a plurality of blades extending into a gas flow inlet passageway . Blades may be sized and shaped to act on a selected incoming gas such as air or a selected oxidant containing gas to provide a supersonic gas flow .

Turning now to for a supersonic compressor section a stator may be provided. In an embodiment stator may be disposed around a longitudinal axis shown with centerline Cin and positioned to receive the supersonic gas flow . In an embodiment the stator may be provided with a plurality of aerodynamic ducts . In the various figures of the drawing the one or more aerodynamic ducts may be individually further identified with a subscript as a first aerodynamic duct a second aerodynamic duct a third aerodynamic duct a fourth aerodynamic duct a fifth aerodynamic duct a sixth aerodynamic duct and seventh aerodynamic duct and the like for each individual aerodynamic ducts that may be utilized in a specific stator design. Aerodynamic ducts may include converging portions and diverging portions . In an embodiment rotor may be configured to turn incoming gas to provide a supersonic relative velocity gas flow at a selected gas rotor exit angle beta relative to the centerline Cof the one or more downstream aerodynamic ducts . In an embodiment the angle beta may be provided at zero degrees 0 and thus a unique incidence angle is provided between the direction of the gas flow and the centerline Cof the one or more downstream aerodynamic ducts . Further a rotor and a stator together as depicted in provide a stage of compression and thus in those cases where further compression is required multiple stages of compression may be utilized in order to provide gas at a desired final pressure before combustion.

In an embodiment a stator may include therein one or more structures that enable startup and one or more structures that provide for control of boundary layer drag as more fully addressed below. In an embodiment bypass gas passageways as noted in may be provided to remove a portion of incoming gas during startup conditions so as to adjust the effective contraction ratio of the associated aerodynamic duct . In this manner aerodynamic ducts may be designed for operation at high compression ratios yet be adapted for startup of a stable supersonic shock system within the aerodynamic duct that ultimately enables high compression ratio operation.

In an embodiment aerodynamic ducts may include one or more boundary layer control structures such as outlet ports as seen in for removal of gas from aerodynamic ducts as may be required for control of boundary layer at surface of the aerodynamic duct . As further described below boundary layer control may be provided by one or more other or additional structures such as via vortex generators or see for example .

Returning to compressor section may utilize a compressor having a rotor having an axis of rotation and for example a driving shaft and a plurality of blades extending into a gas flow passage . Blades may be sized and shaped to act on a selected incoming gas to provide a supersonic gas flow . A diffuser configured as stator is provided. In an embodiment stator may be disposed around a longitudinal axis shown with centerline Cin and positioned to receive the supersonic gas flow . In an embodiment the stator may be provided as one or more aerodynamic ducts . In some of the figures see and for example the one or more aerodynamic ducts may be individually further identified with a subscript as a first aerodynamic duct a second aerodynamic duct a third aerodynamic duct a fourth aerodynamic duct a fifth aerodynamic duct and in a sixth aerodynamic duct and seventh aerodynamic duct are shown for each individual aerodynamic duct that may be utilized in a specific stator design. More generally a number N of aerodynamic ducts and a number B of blades may be provided with the number B of blades and the number N of aerodynamic ducts being unequal in order to avoid adverse harmonic effects. In other words the selected design should avoid harmonic interference between the plurality of blades and the aerodynamic ducts. While in various prior art compressor designs a number B of blades of N minus 1 N 1 or of N plus one N 1 has generally been considered acceptable to avoid adverse harmonic effects it is noted herein that aerodynamic losses are reduced by minimizing the number of aerodynamic ducts and more specifically by reducing the number of components exposed to a supersonic incoming gas stream. Thus in an embodiment the number of blades may considerably exceed the number of aerodynamic ducts thereby reducing components exposed to supersonic flow. However any ratio between the number B of blades and the number N of aerodynamic ducts should be selected to avoid adverse harmonic effects.

The aerodynamic ducts each include a converging portion and a diverging portion . In an embodiment rotor may be configured with blades to turn incoming gas to provide a supersonic relative velocity gas flow at a selected gas rotor exit angle beta relative to the centerline Cof the one or more downstream aerodynamic ducts . In an embodiment but without limitation the angle beta may be provided at zero degrees 0 wherein the direction of gas flow is aligned with the centerline Cof aerodynamic ducts and thus a unique incidence angle is provided between the direction of the gas flow and the centerline Cof the one or more downstream aerodynamic ducts . In other words in an embodiment a unique incidence angle is provided since the direction of gas flow matches the centerline Cof an aerodynamic duct into which the gas flow occurs. However it should be understood that configurations which are not so precisely aligned may also be workable but it should be noted that if the flow angle beta is not aligned with respect to the aerodynamic ducts a series of shock waves or expansion fans depending on whether the relative angle of attack of the incoming flow is positive or negative will be formed to turn the flow to largely match the flow angle through the aerodynamic ducts along centerline C. Such shock wave or expansion fan systems will result in total pressure loss which will contribute to a decrease in overall compression efficiency and reduce the overall compressor ratio achieved for a given speed of blades . As an example a variation in flow incidence angle beta ranging from about 11.0 to about 8.0 degrees at inflow Mach numbers of from about 2.0 to about 3.0 respectively would result in about three 3 percentage points of efficiency loss. Such increased losses and corresponding decreases in stage efficiency may be acceptable in various applications. However in addition to shock wave or expansion fan conditions resulting in pressure and efficiency loss adverse shock wave to boundary layer interaction and or boundary layer separation issues may arise as such off design conditions become more severe depending upon the strength of the shock wave system and the thickness of the boundary layer system interacting therewith. And adverse shock wave and accompanying pressure signatures may be expected to reflect from blades especially at the trailing edges thereof potentially increasing stress and reducing life of blades . Consequently embodiments tending to closely align incoming flow angle beta with the centerline Cof aerodynamic ducts should be considered optimal although not limiting.

A rotor and a stator together as depicted in provide a stage of compression. In those cases where further compression is required multiple stages of compression may be utilized in order to provide gas at a desired final pressure.

As shown in in an embodiment a stator may include therein one or more structures that enable startup of the shock wave and one or more structures that provide for control of boundary layer drag as more fully addressed below. In an embodiment bypass gas passageways may be provided to remove a portion of incoming gas during startup conditions so as to adjust the effective contraction ratio of the associated aerodynamic duct . In this manner aerodynamic ducts may be designed for operation at high compression ratios yet be adapted for startup of a stable supersonic shock system within the aerodynamic duct that ultimately enables transition to high compression ratio operation.

In an embodiment aerodynamic ducts may include one or more boundary layer control structures such as bleed ports as seen in for removal of gas from aerodynamic ducts as may be required for control of boundary layer at surface of the aerodynamic duct . As further described below boundary layer control may be provided by one or more other or additional structures.

Turning now to as an example for a particular design and without limitation flow conditions are depicted for an embodiment for a design within a selected design envelope for a supersonic compressor for use in a gas turbine engine. The rotor includes impulse blades moving in the direction indicated by reference arrow . The use of an impulse rotor enables efficient turning of the flow of an incoming gas especially when utilizing a rotor with sharp leading edges and sharp trailing edges . At location A upstream of rotor a small tangential velocity as compared to tangential velocity after exit from rotor as described below may be encountered prior to the rotor as indicated by the velocity diagram shown in cloud . Upon entry to the rotor gas velocity at location B is accelerated as indicated in the velocity diagram shown in cloud . Just prior to leaving the rotor at location C the gas has been partially accelerated and is moving as indicated in the velocity diagram shown in cloud . Finally after exit from rotor at location D the gas velocity is as indicated in the velocity diagram shown in cloud . Basically an impulse bladed rotor allows a high degree of turning of the incoming gas through an angle alpha . Moreover as seen in the velocity vector diagram set forth in cloud the vector sum of the axial velocity at location D VD Axial of about 628 feet per second the tangential velocity at location D VD Tangential of about 2004.3 feet per second provides an overall relative velocity of gas stream at location D VD of about 2157.6 feet per second which is thus supersonic for gas stream as it enters an aerodynamic duct of stator . Thus in an embodiment the desired supersonic velocity of gas stream entering the aerodynamic ducts of stator is achieved by a combination of velocity of gas through the blades and the tangential rotation of the rotor .

In an embodiment for a supersonic compressor such as illustrated in the selected inlet gas passing through the blades of the rotor may be turned by an angle alpha of at least ninety 90 degrees. In an embodiment of compressor the selected inlet gas passing through the rotor may be turned by an angle alpha of at least one hundred 100 degrees. In an embodiment of compressor the selected inlet gas passing through the blades of the rotor may be turned by an angle alpha of at least one hundred ten 110 degrees. In an embodiment of compressor the selected inlet gas passing through the blades of the rotor may be turned by an angle alpha . The angle alpha may be at least ninety 90 degrees for example between about ninety 90 degrees and about one hundred twenty five 125 degrees or between about ninety 90 degrees and about one hundred sixty 160 degrees or between about one hundred twelve 112 degrees and about one hundred fourteen 114 degrees. Details of exemplary designs for various impulse type blades for use in supersonic compressors may be found by those of skill in the art from various sources. One helpful reference may include a NASA report entitled Analytical Investigation of Supersonic Turbomachinery Blading Section II Analysis of Impulse Turbine Blade Sections by Louis J. Goldman Published as Report No. NASA TN D 4422 on Apr. 1 1968 which is incorporated herein by reference and to which the reader may refer for additional background in implementing an impulse blade in a supersonic compressor design as further taught herein.

As shown in in an embodiment each of the plurality blades in rotor may have a hub end a tip end and a trailing edge . In an embodiment the blades may be provided with supersonic gas flow at their trailing edge . In an embodiment supersonic gas flow at the trailing edge may be from the hub end to the tip end of the trailing edge .

As shown in in an embodiment a rotor may be provided having a shroud for blades . Such shrouded blades on rotor will be understood by those of skill in the art to be otherwise as just noted above as regards supersonic gas flow on blades from a hub end to a tip end at trailing edge . In an embodiment shroud may include labyrinth seal portions and . By use of a labyrinth seal or other suitable seal such as a honeycomb seal a dry gas seal brush seals etc. the rotor may be effectively sealed with respect to a downstream aerodynamic duct such as duct so as to minimize gas leakage during flow there between.

In an embodiment such as illustrated in bypass gas passageways may include in fluid communication therewith outlet valving positionable between an open startup condition wherein discharge gas is passed therethrough and a closed operating condition which minimizes or stops flow of discharged bypass gas . A sub chamber may be provided for collection of bypass gas with the outlet valving regulating passage of such collected bypass gas outward via external passageways . In such embodiment the aerodynamic ducts have outlets in the form of bypass gas passageways that may be fluidly connected to external passageways . In an embodiment collected bypass gas may be returned by return passageways as shown by broken line to inlet passageway . Or in the case of compression of air collected bypass gas may be discharged directly to the atmosphere as shown by broken line in .

Similarly in various embodiments the boundary layer bleed ports may include outlet valving positionable between an open position wherein bleed gas is passed therethrough see in order to remove substantial portions of the boundary layer gases and thus minimize the thickness of such a boundary layer as will be understood by those of skill in the art and a closed position which avoids boundary layer removal via removal of bleed gas . For example a boundary layer bleed sub chamber is shown for collection of bleed gas with outlet valving for passage of collected bleed gas outward by external line . In such embodiment the boundary layer bleed ports from aerodynamic ducts may be fluidly connected to external lines . As also shown in in an embodiment collected bleed gas may be recycled optionally shown by broken line and returned to inlet passageway . Or in case of compression of air the collected bleed gas may be discharged to the atmosphere as indicated by broken line in .

In other embodiments as seen in a compressor may be provided using internal starting bypass gas passageways as defined by internal walls of an internal gas passageway housing . In such configuration the internal bypass gas passageways may be fluidly connected internally within or adjacent the aerodynamic ducts to allow bypass gas to escape a converging portion and return the bypass gas directly to the aerodynamic duct as shown by reference arrow in to the diverging portion thereof. In an embodiment a hinged inlet door may be provided with actuator linkage for opening a bypass outlet shown in broken lines. Bypass gas escapes through bypass outlet and is then returned as indicated by reference arrows and in through bypass return opening . A hinged return door may be provided with actuator linkage for opening a bypass return opening shown in broken lines in .

Attention is directed to which shows yet another embodiment for achieving startup of a supersonic shock wave in an aerodynamic duct . In a bypass outlet door provides a bypass outlet opening shown in broken lines between end walls and to allow gas shown by reference arrows to escape the converging portion of the aerodynamic duct . In an embodiment an actuator may be provided to move back and forth as noted by reference arrows to open and to close bypass outlet door using linkage to pivot bypass outlet door about pivot pin . Escaping bypass gas noted by reference arrows is contained by bypass gas passageway wall for return or discharge as otherwise described herein. In an embodiment the bypass outlet door may be provided with boundary layer bleed passages for boundary layer bleed as noted by reference arrows and . More generally startup of the supersonic shock wave is accomplished by opening up bypass gas passageways such as door and then bringing the blades e.g. up to full speed. Then the bypass outlet door may be smoothly closed to bring the throat Oof aerodynamic duct into a design area condition which establishes a design contraction ration for aerodynamic duct . At that point back pressure that is the static pressure in diverging portion of aerodynamic duct is allowed to rise to establish the design discharge pressure for operation. Boundary layer control structures may be utilized during operation to control boundary layers whether by bleed mixing injection combinations thereof or other suitable means. For shutdown back pressure is reduced and drive for blades is turned off and the compressor is allowed to spin to a stop.

Turning to a compressor may be provided in an embodiment using geometrically adjustable portions in an aerodynamic duct . As seen in a geometrically adjustable portion may be positionable between a location for use in a startup condition shown in broken lines with a larger throat Ohaving area A not shown but corresponding to dimensions at location of O wherein the converging portion allows increased flow of a selected gas through the aerodynamic duct and a location for use in an operating condition in which the converging portion is set to a selected operating position shown in solid lines with a throat Ohaving area A not shown but corresponding to dimensions at location of O . The adjustment of geometrically adjustable portion to the operating position and thus providing a smaller throat Ohaving area Ashown in solid lines in allows operation with a higher compression ratio than when geometrically adjustable portion is at the startup position indicated in by broken lines and providing throat Oarea A. In other words the geometrically adjustable portions moves to change the contraction ratio of an aerodynamic duct . In various embodiments one or more geometrically adjustable portions may be located in one or more of aerodynamic ducts as provided for a particular compressor. As indicated in in an embodiment adjustment of a geometrically adjustable portion may include extending the length of the converging portion and diverging portion of a duct by a length L. In an embodiment such adjustment may be achieved by use of a pivot pin . In an embodiment an actuator extending between an anchor and an attachment point may be provided to move the geometrically adjustable portion and allow movement such as at pivot pin .

Returning now to boundary layer control structures in an embodiment such structures may be configured as boundary layer bleed ports in the various aerodynamic ducts e.g. through such as shown in or in . Such boundary layer bleed ports may be provided by perforations in one or more bounding walls such as in surface of a diverging portion in an aerodynamic duct as shown in or . Adjacent the boundary layer bleed ports may be bleed sub chambers such as sub chamber noted above with respect to the embodiment depicted in or as may be seen in . Thus a bleed sub chamber may be provided in fluid communication with boundary layer bleed ports and thus bleed sub chambers may be configured for passage therethrough of gas removed through the boundary layer bleed ports . Although the boundary layer bleed ports are shown in a diverging portion such bleed ports may be located in other bounding walls of aerodynamic ducts such as on radially outward portions or on sidewalls or on other radial inward portions.

In various embodiments as shown in and the one or more aerodynamic ducts may be disposed in a stationary diffuser namely stator as depicted in above and may be wrapped around a longitudinal axis shown along the centerline C. In an embodiment as indicated in one or more of the one or more aerodynamic ducts of a stationary diffuser may be wrapped as if over a substantially cylindrical substrate . In such an embodiment aerodynamic ducts may be wrapped at a substantially constant helical angle psi about the longitudinal axis shown along the centerline of the stator C. Alternately the orientation of aerodynamic ducts may be described by use of the complementary lead angle delta as shown in . In such an embodiment the centerline Cof a first aerodynamic duct and the centerline Cof a second aerodynamic duct and other ducts in the embodiment may be parallel. In various embodiments a helical angle psi of from about forty five degrees 45 to about eighty degrees 80 may be employed. In other embodiments a helical angle psi of from about forty five degrees 45 to about seventy five degrees 75 may be employed. In the designs disclosed herein it may be advantageous to receive gas in aerodynamic ducts for example in without turning the flow as delivered from blades . In a different design as depicted in aerodynamic ducts and of a diffuser may be wrapped as if over an outwardly expanding conical section as a substrate . In yet another and still different alternative embodiment as seen in aerodynamic ducts and in a diffuser may be wrapped as if over an inwardly decreasing conical section as a substrate .

Overall as may be envisioned in part from a gas turbine engine with supersonic gas compressor may be provided for compressing an incoming selected gas where the gas turbine engine includes a casing having a low pressure gas inlet and a combustion gas exit . A rotor with blades or shrouded blades on rotor as shown in may be provided to act on the selected gas to impart velocity thereto to provide a supersonic gas flow see to a stator that includes one or more aerodynamic ducts . As shown in provision may also be made for a deswirler located downstream of stator to turn the gas flow toward the burner when required. However losses associated with deswirler may be minimized or avoided in some instances such by using a generally linear gas turbine configuration as depicted in . The rotor with blades or shrouded blades on rotor as shown in may be driven by shaft from gas turbine the choice of driver type and size and associated drive train components such as a gearbox or bearings etc. may be selected by those of skill in the art for a particular application.

An exemplary aerodynamic duct may be provided in a stator of the type shown in . In an embodiment aerodynamic ducts may be generally helically disposed about a longitudinal axis such as about centerline Cof . Aerodynamic ducts may be designed i.e. sized and shaped for an inlet relative Mach number for operation associated with a design operating point selected within a design operating envelope for a selected gas composition gas quantity and gas compression ratio. A gas turbine compressor design may be configured for a selected mass flow that is for a particular quantity of gas that is to be compressed and that gas may have certain inlet conditions with respect to temperature and pressure or an anticipated range of such conditions that should be considered in the design. The incoming gas may be relatively pure mixture of gases such as ambient air or may be a mixture of various elements and or compounds or the expected supply gas may be expected to range in composition. And it may be desired to achieve a particular final pressure when starting at a given inlet gas pressure and thus a desired gas compression ratio should be selected for a particular gas turbine compressor design. Given design constraints such as gas composition mass flow of gas inlet conditions and desired outlet conditions the aerodynamic ducts for a particular compressor should be sized and shaped for operation at a selected inlet Mach number and gas compression ratio. The designs described herein allow use of high gas compression ratios especially compared to self starting compressor designs that lack the ability to adjust the effective contraction ratio. Thus the designs provided herein provide for compression in aerodynamic ducts which can be started as regards swallowing a shock structure and establishing a stable supersonic shock configuration during operation yet retain design features that enable high pressure ratio operation including oblique shock structure and throat size to support design throughput and compression pressure ratios

As shown in aerodynamic ducts in stator may be constructed with leading edges . Certain details pertinent to various embodiments are shown in and . In an embodiment is shown for a stationary stator having five 5 aerodynamic ducts through and wherein each of such aerodynamic ducts through includes a leading edge . In an embodiment is shown for a stationary stator having seven 7 aerodynamic ducts through and wherein each of such aerodynamic ducts includes a leading edge . Generally the sharper the leading edge the better performance will be provided that is losses will be minimized when operating at supersonic conditions at the inlet as compared to use of a leading edge that is not as sharp. In an embodiment a leading edge may be provided having a leading edge radius R of from about 0.005 inches to about 0.012 inches as shown in . The leading edge may be provided using a sharp leading edge wedge angle theta which may in an embodiment be between about five degrees 5 and about ten degrees 10 . Also as seen in leading edge may be provided sloping rearward i.e. in a downstream direction at a slope angle mu as measured between the leading edge and a tangent line with underlying radially inward bounding wall . Such sloping leading edge may start at a lower front end and end at an upper rear end . The leading edge may be sealed to or affixed to a radially inward bounding wall at the lower front end and may be sealed to or affixed to for example using welded assembly or otherwise sealingly provided for example machined from a common workpiece with respect to radially outward bounding wall at the upper rear end of leading edge .

Rearward in the downstream gas flow direction from leading edge a partition wall may be utilized. In various embodiments for example as seen in a common partition wall may be utilized between adjacent aerodynamic ducts for example between individually identified aerodynamic ducts etc. through duct as depicted in . As shown in partition walls are individually identified as partition walls etc. as appropriate given the number of aerodynamic ducts utilized. In an embodiment partition walls may be provided with a thickness T of about 0.100 inches or less. In summary an efficient compressor may be provided when aerodynamic ducts may be located adjacent one to another. Such design is even more efficient when adjacent aerodynamic ducts have a common partition wall therebetween. In various embodiments a leading edge may provide an upstream terminus for a partition wall such as partition wall .

In an embodiment as may be seen by reference to a stator design may include aerodynamic ducts which may be polygonal in cross sectional shape and such shape may include a variety of bounding walls such as a floor ceiling and sidewalls. As used herein the term radially inward bounding wall has been used to describe what might be also be considered a floor of an aerodynamic duct. As used herein the term radially outward bounding wall has been used to describe what might be also considered a ceiling of an aerodynamic duct. As earlier noted in an embodiment aerodynamic ducts may have a flow centerline Cas shown in . Then in such embodiment orthogonal to the centerline line C the aerodynamic ducts may be provided having a parallelogram cross sectional shape which may be in an embodiment a generally rectangular cross sectional shape at various points along the aerodynamic duct . In an embodiment the centerline Cmay be generally helical. The height H of such a cross section is shown in seen radially outward from a radially inward bounding wall toward a radially outward bounding wall at an entrance location to an aerodynamic duct namely the lower front end of leading edge . The width W of such a cross section is depicted in as between and within adjacent partition walls and . In an embodiment associated with the just noted cross sectional shape the aerodynamic ducts may have an average aspect ratio expressed as width W to height H of about two to one 2 1 or more. In an embodiment the aerodynamic ducts may have an average aspect ratio expressed as width W to height H of about three to one 3 1 or more. In an embodiment the aerodynamic ducts may have an average aspect ratio expressed as width W to height H of about four to one 4 1 or more. See for an example of the dimension of height H and see for an example of the dimension of width W.

In various embodiments as may be appreciated from as well as from the number of aerodynamic ducts may be selected as useful given other design constraints. The number of aerodynamic ducts included may be one or more say in the range of from 1 to 11 or more for example 3 5 7 9 or 11 aerodynamic ducts . The number of aerodynamic ducts for a given design may be selected as part of a design exercise that takes into account various factors including the direction of gas flow leaving the impulse rotor and the velocity provided thereby and the degree of growth of adverse boundary layers in configurations of various geometry. In an embodiment the number of leading edges for example see for an inlet in a stator for example see may be equal to the number of aerodynamic ducts in a stator . In many embodiments design optimization may result in a plurality of aerodynamic ducts so that velocity of gas leaving an impulse blade is maximized and boundary layer growth is minimized. In such embodiments for example as seen in when optimizing a compressor design an odd number 3 5 7 9 or 11 of aerodynamic ducts may be provided and as just mentioned above the number of leading edges such stator would be eleven 11 or less. Generally an unequal number of 1 blades on a rotor and 2 leading edges in an aerodynamic duct should be selected. By selection of an odd number of blades in a rotor an even number of aerodynamic ducts may be provided for example 2 4 6 8 10 or more. In related parameters in an exemplary diffuser namely stator the number of leading edges in a stator would be about one half or less than the number of blades provided in a rotor . In another embodiment the number of leading edges in a diffuser such as stator would be about one quarter or less than the number of blades in a rotor . In a yet more efficient design it is currently anticipated that the number of leading edges in a stator would be about fifteen percent 15 or less of the number of blades in a rotor . Minimizing the number of leading edges and related aerodynamic ducts minimizes drag and efficiency loss compared to various prior art stators particularly those utilizing stator blades in number commensurate with or equivalent to the number of rotor blades provided.

In addition to improvements in the number size and shape of leading edges and related aerodynamic duct components the provision of on board supersonic shock starting capability for example by use of bypass gas passageways such as bypass gas sub chambers as shown in that is sub chambers below the radially inward bounding wall of the aerodynamic duct or internal bypass using internal starting bypass gas passageways as defined by internal walls of an internal gas passageway housing as seen in provides the ability to design for higher pressure ratios in a supersonic compressor. As an example but not as a limitation the bypass gas passageways may be operable during establishment of a supersonic shock during startup when the compressor is designed for operating at an inlet relative Mach number of about 1.8 for removal of a quantity of from about eleven percent 11 by mass to about nineteen percent 19 by mass of the selected gas captured at the inlet by an aerodynamic duct . As a further example but not as a limitation the bypass gas passageways may be operable during establishment of a supersonic shock during startup when a compressor is designed for operating at an inlet relative Mach number of about 2.8 for removal of a quantity of from about thirty six percent 36 by mass to about sixty one percent 61 by mass of the inlet gas captured at the inlet by an aerodynamic duct . Those of skill in the art and to whom this specification is directed will undoubtedly be able to calculate and thus determine suitable bypass gas quantities that may be useful or required for enabling aerodynamic ducts used in a particular stator given compressor design parameters to swallow an incipient supersonic shock structure and to thus establish a stable supersonic shock structure at a desired location within the aerodynamic duct s . Thus the above noted ranges are provided to give the reader an appreciation of the amount of mass flow that may be required to establish a stable supersonic shock structure and thus eliminate an un started condition in the aerodynamic ducts in a stator. Various aspects of starting requirements are discussed by Lawlor in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. US2009 0196731 A1 Published on Aug. 6 2009 entitled Method and Apparatus for Starting Supersonic Compressors which is incorporated herein in its entirety by this reference. In particular of that publication provides a graphic illustration of typical ranges suitable for starting bypass gas removal requirements shown as starting bleed fraction defined by mass of bypass gas divided by mass of gas captured by the inlet for aerodynamic ducts in a supersonic compressor operating at a selected inlet relative Mach number.

More generally a gas turbine engine including a compressor as described herein may be designed for providing gas to aerodynamic ducts such as aerodynamic duct as shown in at an inlet relative Mach number in excess of about 1.8. Further a compressor may be designed for an inlet relative Mach number to aerodynamic ducts of at least 2. Even further a compressor as described herein may be designed for an inlet relative Mach number to aerodynamic ducts of at least 2.5. And operation of supersonic compressors described herein is anticipated to be possible at designs having an inlet relative Mach number to aerodynamic ducts in excess of about 2.5. For many applications a practical design is anticipated to utilize an inlet relative Mach number to aerodynamic ducts between about 2 and about 2.5 inclusive of such bounding parameters. Further for various applications as an example and not as a limitation practical designs may be anticipated to utilize an inlet relative Mach number to aerodynamic ducts in the range of between about 2.5 and about 2.8. For other applications even higher inlet Mach numbers may be practical in various designs as an example especially for those gases in which the speed of sound is relatively low such as some of the refrigerant gases. On the other hand for applications handling gases having a very high speed of sound such as hydrogen operation at much lower Mach numbers may provide commercially acceptable results. Consequently the Mach number achievable for various designs should not be considered limited by such above noted suggestions as an evaluation of design Mach numbers for particular applications may include a variety of design considerations.

Gas turbine engines with compressors as described herein may be provided for operation within a design operating envelope having a gas compression ratio of at least three 3 . In other applications compressors as described herein may be provided for operation within a design operating envelope having a gas compression ratio in a stage of compression of at least five 5 . In yet other applications compressors as described herein may be provided for operation within a design operating envelope having a gas compression ratio in a stage of compression of from about three point seven five 3.75 to about twelve 12 . In yet other applications compressors as described herein may be provided for operation within a design operating envelope having a gas compression ratio in a stage of compression of from about six 6 to about twelve point five 12.5 . In certain applications compressors as described herein may be provided for operation within a design operating envelope of gas compression ratios in a stage of compression of from about twelve 12 to about thirty 30 . In an embodiment the compressor section of the gas turbine engines described herein may compress air at an isentropic efficiency in excess of ninety percent 90 . In an embodiment the compressor section of the gas turbine engines described herein may compress air at an isentropic efficiency in excess of ninety five percent 95 .

In general improved supersonic gas compressor designs taught herein for compressing a selected gas such as air are provided for use in gas turbine engines. In an embodiment an exemplary compressor may utilize a casing having a low pressure gas inlet and a combustion gas exit . A rotor with shrouded blades as seen in may be provided for delivery of a selected gas at supersonic conditions to a stationary diffuser such as stator having a plurality of aerodynamic ducts as shown in . In an embodiment the aerodynamic ducts may be wrapped helically in a stator . In an embodiment adjacent aerodynamic ducts may have common partition walls therebetween. The aerodynamic ducts have a converging portion and a diverging portion that with input of a supersonic gas flow generate a plurality of oblique shock waves Sto Sas seen for example in and a normal shock wave Sas the selected gas passes through the aerodynamic duct . In various designs aerodynamic ducts may have an inlet relative Mach number for operation associated with a design operating point selected within a design operating envelope for a selected gas composition gas quantity and gas compression ratio. Further such a compressor may include means for adjusting the effective contraction ratio of some or all of the plurality of aerodynamic ducts or of each of the aerodynamic ducts. The means for adjusting the effective contraction ratio may include bypass gas passageways for discharge of gas from aerodynamic ducts to external discharge or recycle lines as seen in above. The means for adjusting the effective contraction ratio may include internal bypass gas passageways such as using internal gas passageway housing with inlet doors and outlet doors as conceptually depicted in . The means for adjusting effective contraction ratio may include geometrically adjustable portions as seen in . Even further as appropriate for a particular design configuration means for controlling a boundary layer of gas flowing through each of the plurality of aerodynamic ducts may be provided. The means for controlling boundary layers may include boundary layer outlet bleed ports . The means for controlling boundary layers may include the use of inlet jets for injection gas into a boundary layer to energize the same and increase the velocity of the boundary layer to a velocity more closely matching that of bulk fluid flow at a particular location in an aerodynamic duct. The means for controlling boundary layers may also include the use of one or more vortex generators in an aerodynamic duct see to energize a boundary layer by moving gas via a vortex from a higher velocity bulk flow portion into a slower boundary layer flow to thereby energize the boundary layer flow.

Increasing operational pressure ratio of the compressor section of a gas turbine engine may provide increased cycle efficiency and thus better ratio of power output to energy fuel input. In one example the compression may be effectively accomplished using the compressor configuration s taught herein utilizing rotors with high strength and using a shrouded blade configuration. Such a design should be able to operate at high rotational rates to provide sufficient peripheral speed in order achieve a suitable supersonic design velocity at time of entry of gas to the aerodynamic ducts of a stator as shown in . As an example with rotor tip speeds in the range of about 2 500 feet per second using advanced graphite composite construction with shrouded rotor blades extremely high compression ratios may be achievable using the designs taught herein depending upon the inlet gas composition. Further advances in materials and manufacturing techniques may enable designs at even higher speeds and pressure ratios or may provide reduced risk of mechanical failures when operating at or near the just noted design parameters.

Further to the details noted above it should be reiterated that the aerodynamic ducts described herein may be utilized in configurations built on various substrate structural designs and achieve the benefit of high compression ratio operation while providing necessary features for starting of supersonic operation. In various embodiments a plurality of aerodynamic ducts may be configured as if wrapped about a surface of revolution as provided by such static structure. In an embodiment a suitable static structure may be substantially cylindrical and thus in an embodiment the ducts may be configured wrapped around the cylindrical structure. In an embodiment the aerodynamic ducts of a stationary diffuser may be provided in a spiral configuration. In an embodiment the aerodynamic ducts of a stationary diffuser may be provided in helicoidal configuration such as may be generated along a centerline by rotating an entrance plane shape about a longitudinal axis at a fixed rate and simultaneously translating it in the downstream direction of the longitudinal axis also at a fixed rate. Thus the term wrapped around a longitudinal axis shall be considered to include wrapping around such various shapes as applicable.

In summary the various embodiments using aerodynamic ducts with internal compression ramps configured as taught herein provide significantly improved performance over prior art bladed stator designs operating at supersonic inlet conditions particularly in their ability to provide high total and static pressure ratios. In one aspect this is because utilizing a minimum number of aerodynamic ducts and associated leading edge structures reduces loss associated with entry of high velocity gas into a diffuser. Moreover the reduced static structure correspondingly reduces compressor weight and cost especially compared to prior art designs utilizing large numbers of conventional airfoil shaped stator blades. Thus incorporation of the novel compressor design described herein enables construction of a high efficiency yet small and compact gas turbine engine.

In the foregoing description for purposes of explanation numerous details have been set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosed exemplary embodiments for the design of a novel gas turbine engine utilizing a supersonic compressor system for the efficient compression of gases. However certain of the described details may not be required in order to provide useful embodiments or to practice a selected or other disclosed embodiments. Further for descriptive purposes various relative terms may be used. Terms that are relative only to a point of reference are not meant to be interpreted as absolute limitations but are instead included in the foregoing description to facilitate understanding of the various aspects of the disclosed embodiments. And various actions or activities in a method described herein may have been described as multiple discrete activities in turn in a manner that is most helpful in understanding the present invention. However the order of description should not be construed as to imply that such activities are necessarily order dependent. In particular certain operations may not necessarily need to be performed precisely in the order of presentation. And in different embodiments of the invention one or more activities may be performed simultaneously or eliminated in part or in whole while other activities may be added. Also the reader will note that the phrase in an embodiment or in one embodiment has been used repeatedly. This phrase generally does not refer to the same embodiment however it may. Finally the terms comprising having and including should be considered synonymous unless the context dictates otherwise.

From the foregoing it can be understood by persons skilled in the art that a gas turbine engine has been provided for the efficient production of shaft power which may be utilized for a variety of end uses. Although only certain specific embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described there is no intent to limit this invention by these embodiments. Rather the invention is to be defined by the appended claims and their equivalents when taken in combination with the description.

Importantly the aspects and embodiments described and claimed herein may be modified from those shown without materially departing from the novel teachings and advantages provided and may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Therefore the embodiments presented herein are to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive or limiting. As such this disclosure is intended to cover the structures described herein and not only structural equivalents thereof but also equivalent structures. Numerous modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings. Therefore the protection afforded to this invention should be limited only by the claims set forth herein and the legal equivalents thereof.

