---

title: Marketing goods with bar codes
abstract: Disclosed herein are techniques to market products and services by enabling a potential consumer to access information about a product or service by simply scanning a bar code. Consistent with some embodiments, a computer system stores in a database data records that include bar code information. The computer system is operable to receive requests for information that include bar code information. Upon receiving such a request, the computer system identifies a data record in the database with bar code information that matches the bar code information received in the request, and then processes the request by communicating relevant information to the requestor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08355956&OS=08355956&RS=08355956
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 08355956
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120217
---
This patent application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 890 193 filed Sep. 24 2010 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 166 779 filed on Oct. 6 1998 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 554 704 filed on Nov. 7 1995 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 427 820 filed on Apr. 26 1995 all of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to used and collectible goods offered for sale by an electronic network of consignment stores. More specifically the present invention may be an electronic market maker for collectable and used goods a means for electronic presentment of goods for sale and an electronic agent to search the network for hard to find goods. In a second embodiment to the present invention a low cost posting terminal allows the virtual presentment of goods to market and establishes a two tiered market of retail and wholesale sales.

Certain items and used goods have a large following of collectors. These items include baseball cards dolls pens watches comic books stamps coins and the like. It is well known to establish shops specializing in these items. It is also well known to establish boards for the sale of used goods. And is known to sell new goods on a special television channel like the Home Shopping Channel.

The prior art does not provide a means to electronically market used goods or provide an avenue to allow participants to speculate on the price of collectable or used goods in an electronic market place. Moreover the art does not show a way for small to medium size business to use a low cost posting terminal in conjunction with a market maker computer to collectively create a virtual market for used and collectible goods. Thus to address the short comings of the art the present invention has the following objectives 

To establish a low cost computer means for a used good and or consignment stores to establish a trusted computerized market for used and collectible goods.

To establish a computer means to administrate and provide inventory tracking to used good and or consignment stores when the stores make a virtual presentment of a good to a computerized market and the good is sold at the virtual market and or the good is sold through the store front.

To establish a computer means to double tier a computerized market for goods where the first tier is a retail price and the second tier is a wholesale or dealer to dealer price and an authorized dealer has pre approved access to the dealer to dealer price and may charge and display the retail price to a local store customer.

To establish a computer means for archiving records of transactions in a computerized market for collectible and used goods and distributing the archive to computer terminals that may then research and analyze valuation and price trends of collectible and used goods in the computerized market.

To establish a computer means for a used good store or consignment store to sell used goods and collectibles electronically and to provide the automatic electronic re sale of goods purchased.

To establish a market for goods with a dominant electronic market maker node to allow collectors to speculate on the collectable goods market.

To provide the excitement of a live auction house type atmosphere to remote participants in a electronic auction.

To provide data analysis to the market makers of collectable good or consignment node users on the price price movements and quantity of collectable goods in the virtual market.

To provide an electronic agent interface for participants to search a plurality of consignment nodes to search for a used good or collectable item.

To provide a means to track down the owner of a particular used or collectable good. Further to provide a trusted network of consignment nodes that act as brokers to provide a means to electronically present a used good or collectable to an electronic market.

The foregoing objects and advantages of the invention are illustrative of those which can be achieved by the present invention and are not intended to be exhaustive or limiting of the possible advantages which can be realized. Thus these and other objects and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the description herein or can be learned from practicing the invention both as embodied herein or as modified in view of any variations which may be apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly the present invention resided in the novel methods arrangements combinations and improvements herein shown and described.

The present invention is a network of consignment nodes and a low cost easy to use posting terminal for the virtual presentment of goods to market. A consignment node is a computer database of used goods preferably operated by a used good collectable shop keeper or a bailee. A posting terminal is a low cost easy to use computer and computer peripheral devices used by a small store owner to present goods to a computerized marker and track the sales of goods and control the posted inventory. All consignment nodes users or operators hereinafter users are trusted licensees or franchisers of the software and hardware necessary to create and operate a consignment node. Thus the network provides a trusted means for consignment node users e.g. shop keepers to establish electronic markets for collectable goods establish electronic auctions establish a means for searching each others shops to locate hard to find collectibles items and a means to electronically present goods to a market. The present invention will allow or license certain consignments nodes to become a dominant market maker for a particular class of goods for example a consignment node franchise may be given the rights to establish the dominant market for collectable antique pens. It is understood a central market maker computer may be virtually divided into different markets with posting terminals used as the means for the market to obtain virtual title goods. Other consignment nodes after taking physical possession of a good may make an electronic presentment of that good to such a dominant consignment node market. Thus a local collector of antique pens may bring a pen to a convenient consignment node in Small town USA the consignment network would allow this collector to electronically present his pen to the dominant market make node for antique pens in for example Chicago. Participants e.g. customers and collectors hereinafter participants may reach a dominant node s market or any other consignment nodes electronic store from his or her home by logging on from a PC located at the participant s home to their locally operated consignment node and reaching the distant consignment node through the network of consignment nodes. Thus each consignment node user e.g. shop keeper has a potential participant i.e. customer base of all consignment node participants. In other words a potentially huge customer base that incurs the minimal cost of a local consignment node connection may reach any other consignment node through the consignment node network. And local collector s may economically participate in the collectable markets by using local access to a convenient consignment node trusted bailee and electronically presenting collectable goods to an electronic market.

A consignment node in a simple form may have a computer a digital camera a bar code scanner a display a printer a keyboard a database and a network connection collectively called hereinafter a consignment node. The present invention also has a user interface application program to execute an a user or participant s data terminal .

The consignment node may have four modes of operation a software download mode an auction mode a market mode and an agent mode. The software download mode allows a participant to log into the consignment node and receive a download of a participant interface application program. The auction mode allows a participant from the participant interface application program to log into a consignment node to partake in an electronic auction. The market mode allows a participant with the participant interface program to log into a consignment node to browse the consignment node database to search for a used or collectable good. The agent mode allows a participant to log into a consignment node to formulate a search request for a particular used good or collectable. The consignment node may search its own database for the requested good and or generate agents to search and report back a search request of other consignment nodes.

The present invention may allow a participant to electronically purchase goods from a consignment node and to select whether the good should be shipped to a participant designed location or the participant may take electronic legal ownership of a good and post a new participant defined offer or reserve price. By the interaction of a plurality of participants buying and selling collectibles on a consignment node posting buy at and sell at quantities and prices the consignment node may establish a market or become a market maker for collectable goods. A participant may also elect to electronically transfer or present a good to a different consignment node or market. This allows a participant to speculate with collectable goods on the consignment node network s different markets and not incur the shipping costs with physically moving the goods while providing a trusted means to assure potential buyers of the good s bona fide availability and legal title.

The consignment node operator or purveyor hereinafter referred to as the consignment node user establishes his consignment node by creating a database of used goods or collectibles hereinafter the term goods shall be used to reflect used goods new goods and collectibles. The user takes the first good to be put on the database and invokes the consignment node software to create a data record. For example the user owns a baseball card collector shop and the user wants to post his Babe Ruth collection. The user in this instance invokes the consignment node to build the database mode and the invention initializes the digital camera . The user then photographs or digitizes the image of the particular Babe Ruth card. The consignment system then displays an empty database record on the display to accept text information concerning the card.

The user fills out the display record with information concerning the particular Babe Ruth card. The consignment node verifies that enough information has been filled out in the displayed computer record as well known to the electronic database arts and accepts the record. It should be noted that the consignment node database record has data fields for the consignment node user to add value to his consignment node postings with subjective information such as condition of the card special features such as autographed by Babe Ruth and the like. Thus the consignment node user may build business goodwill into his particular consignment node operation by establishing his own particular subjectivity and quality standards in item postings.

After the data record or the particular Babe Ruth card is accepted by the consignment node the system may print out a bar code label on the printer . The user may then put the particular Babe Ruth card into a plastic bag and affix the bar code label to the bag. The bar code labeling system becomes a useful inventory management tool discussed below.

It is understood in this first example that the consignment node user is the legal and equitable owner of the Babe Ruth card and that the user posted a reserve or offer price on the particular card at his posting. In a second illustrative example a local resident would like to post for example his Frank Robinson baseball card. The resident brings his Frank Robinson card to the baseball card store and tells the consignment node user he would like to offer his Frank Robinson card for a consignment sale. Again the consignment node user invokes the system database posting node and photographs the Frank Robinson card with digital camera . As above the user fills in the system generated display prompt for information concerning the Frank Robinson card. The resident informs the user of the reserve or offer price and signs or agrees to a consignment contract with the consignment node user to accept the consignment terms to pay the consignment node user on the sale of the card for example 6 of sales price as a consignment fee. Again the system may print the appropriate bar code for the Frank Robinson card. The consignment node user then takes possession of the card and may affix the bar code label to an appropriate cardholder. It should be noted by the consignment node user may again add value to his consignment node by entering subjective criteria in the database entry for authenticity condition special attributes and the like. The participant or local resident may now electronically present his Frank Robinson card to any consignment node consignment node auction or consignment node market maker in the consignment node network.

These processes may be repeated again and again to establish a substantial database of goods for sale. It should be noted that the consignment node user may at his discretion take postings from reputable dealers or collectors via a facsimile machine or other forms of electronic or verbal presentment of a good for sale. It is within the sound discretion of an individual consignment node user to establish these practices. It is within the scope of the invention however to take electronic postings from other consignment node users or individuals over the network as discussed below. Each consignment node user may be a franchisee of a central franchiser and the franchiser may police the network to give quality control detect fraud and revoke the franchises or licenses of poor quality consignment node users. Thus the consignment node is a trusted network for consignment node users providing value to the network by imposing a quality and performance structure on the consignment nodes. The same franchise enforcement scheme is also available to the low cost posting terminal embodiment to the present invention.

A buyer hereinafter participant may electronically log onto a consignment node via a network connection by use of a PC with participant interface software through an interactive television application workstation interact browser or the like. The network connection drivers for the consignment node are discussed in detail below. The participant may enter the browse node and peruse the consignment node database of goods. It is understood that the participant may receive the image taken with a digital camera of the goods at the participant terminal. The participant upon finding for example the above posted Frank Robinson card may decide to purchase the card. The participant may present electronic payment to the consignment node by entering a credit card number and expiration date or other forms of electronic payment. It is understood that a secure and or encrypted means may be established between a participant s interface application and a consignment node to transfer sensitive or theft prone information. Moreover a participant may establish an account with his local consignment node to be debited and credited with the funds used and generated with his transactions.

The consignment node may for example clear the transaction by charging the participant s charge card account and crediting the consignment node store account by well known credit card clearing techniques. After the consignment node has cleared the transaction the system electronically transfers ownership of the Frank Robinson card to the participant. The participant may then be presented with the choice of directing the delivery of the Frank Robinson card to a desired location or may choose to post a new reserve or offer price for the card and direct the card to remain in the possession of the consignment node user. Thus the consignment node allows a participant to speculate on the price of the Frank Robinson card and establishes an electronic market for the Frank Robinson card. It is understood that the consignment node may have many Frank Robinson cards available thus by the interaction of collectors electronically buying and selling the collectibles it will establish a market price for a Frank Robinson card or any other good. For each transaction the consignment node user extracts the small consignment fee e.g. 6 of the sales price thus the consignment node user directly benefits from operating a reputable consignment node. If the participant elects to take delivery of the purchased goods then the consignment node may track the delivery and ownership of this good to this particular participant in a data record. This data record may be useful to speed the posting of the good should the participant later decide to re post and sell the good and it also creates a valuable database of records to track the possession and ownership of a collectable. This feature may be useful in the agent mode e.g. tracking down very hard to find items discussed more fully below.

For a rare good a good in a volatile market or a good s initial posting the consignment node user or participant may wish to auction the good with or without reserve to the highest bidder. In this mode the good may be posted on the consignment node by the means described above but the data record representing the good is identified as waiting for an auction date and may not be purchased on the electronic market. Alternatively an item may be in the electronic market of the consignment node with a high reserve price that may be lowered in the auction or liquidation mode. Here the consignment node user or the good s participant owner may enter a protected data field a confidential reserve price for the auction mode. The consignment node user arranges by invoking the appropriate consignment node program a time and date for an electronic auction. The consignment node user or good s participant owner may establish in a data record that represents the good a desire for the item to be auctioned. For example a pawnshop operator of a consignment node may have several Rolex watches he wishes to auction with reserve this Saturday night at 7 00 p.m. The consignment node user here a pawnshop identifies on the Rolex watch records the auction date and the confidential reserve price. The consignment node system may advertise auction dates items and auction terms in the consignment node log on welcome message discussed below. Moreover a good that is identified as awaiting an auction date may be viewed before auction in the consignment node browse mode by a perspective auction participant.

At the auction date perspective participants log onto the consignment node auction mode locally or through the consignment node network and await the first good to be auctioned it is understood that in the best mode of the invention the participant will have a data terminal with a digital to analog converter such as a sound blaster and speaker the digital to analog capability may be used in the auction mode to bring the aural excitement of an auction e.g. the call of the heckler the caller and bidders home to the auction participant. This is discussed in more detail below.

The consignment node takes the first item to be auctioned and posts the image of the good and the good s text record to the participants. The consignment node then posts the opening bid. It is understood that the bid postings may be in a protocol that invokes the generation of an auctioneer s voice at the participant terminals. The participants may then respond with a higher bid. The consignment node mode scans electronically the participants for bids and accepts the highest bid. If bids are tied the consignment node may take the first highest bid by the participants log on order. A particular bidding participant receives a special acknowledgment from the consignment node that her bid was accepted. The consignment node then posts the higher bid to all the electronic auction participants. The consignment node repeats this process until no higher bid is received for a predetermined amount of time and closes the auctioning of that particular good. The consignment node then checks whether the highest bid received is greater than the reserve price if appropriate. The consignment node may then post sold and the sell price to all participant terminals and proceed to post the next item for auction. Again a successful purchaser may elect to direct delivery of the good or post the good on the electronic market at a new participant determined offer price.

It is understood that the terms of the auction sale are posted and agreed to by the participants before allowing a participant to bid on goods in compliance with local requirements and statutes. It is also understood that a participant may make electronic payment for the goods or establish a time of credit or collect on delivery terms within a particular consignment node user s discretion. This may be established by a relationship between a local consignment node user and a local participant at the local consignment user s discretion.

It should be noted that a consignment node user may sell virtual advertising space or a central master node e.g. the franchiser may coordinate the sale of advertising space on a pool of consignment nodes to reach target market participants. For example if a participant has purchased or speculated in antique pens and advertisers of an antique pen specially consignment node wishes to target market individuals on the network who have purchased collectable pens in the past. A central coordinated master node may sell advertising to an advertiser for the log on message or e mail targeted participants and users. Thus the network of consignment nodes can establish a market for target marketing or blanketed advertising of goods and services sold locally or on a network level by a central node.

The Agent Mode allows a consignment node participant to search a plurality of consignment nodes and purchase records for a used good. A participant may log onto his local consignment node to shop. This participant for example may be interested in purchasing a particular used coin for her collection. The participant may invoke a consignment node Agent to search the network of consignment nodes for this coin. The participant fills in the search parameters for this coin for example a 1872 U.S. penny from the Denver Mint. The consignment node Agent task handler verifies the Agent form is sufficiently filled out and accepts the task. The Agent checks a list of other consignment nodes network addresses kept by the local consignment node database and generates an Agent communication message to each consignment node on the list and begins to establish communications to the other consignment nodes. An Agent message between consignment nodes begins by coordinating or reconciling the database on each consignment node of the locations and or address of other consignment nodes. If a consignment node has a different list of consignment nodes in its database it will pass the node update information to the other consignment node. The consignment node originating the Agent task will generate a new Agent task to accommodate the information concerning the new consignment node. Once the consignment node database of consignment nodes is reconciled the Agent will search the consignment node database for the goods requested. The Agent will report back whether the search of the local market database was successful and how many good that matches the Agent search request it found. An Agent may also search the consignment node database of past transactions to identify an owner of a particular good. The Agent may then report that John Doe of Main Street U.S.A. was the last known purchaser of a 1872 U.S. penny from the Denver Mint at this node. It is understood that differing levels of privacy are available to consignment node purchasers so as only allowing the local consignment node user to view past purchaser information and or provide the Agent with an option of contacting that consignment user so he may contact the prior purchaser thus protecting privacy while allowing bona fide offers to reach the prior purchaser in confidence.

Once some of the Agents start reporting back to the Agent originating consignment node the originating consignment node ma report the results to the consignment node participant of the Agents results. Such results may give the total number of matching items found thus providing the local participant collector an indication of the depth of this market. It is understood that a local consignment node user may charge participants for Agent requests.

In the preferred embodiment of the present invention a consignment node may use a multitasking operating system such as UNIX OS 2 NT or VMS. However a Microsoft DOS or Windows implementation is within the scope of the present invention. The consignment node may be networked via TCP IP and the internet or a private TCP IP network or X.25 private or public network or service providers network of ISDN ATM and the like. It is understood that a consignment node may support a plurality of protocols simultaneously. Moreover it is understood that the participant interface application program may execute on a wide variety of platforms such as PC s MAC s Power PCs workstations cable set top boxes video game hardware and the like and are within the scope of the present invention. The posting terminal embodiment is discussed in detail below.

It is understood that the get session identification procedure is a routine that monitors the communication ports and virtual communication ports residing on a protocol stack. The consignment node may use for example a X.25 interface card available from Eicon Corporation or Frontier Corporation to execute an X.25 protocol stack in a PC workstation. The get session identification program may monitor the X.25 protocol for incoming calls. If the program identifies an incoming call it may answer the call by transmitting the appropriate X.25 packet to the network on the appropriate virtual channel. It is understood that other protocols such as TCP IP DECNET SNA and ATM are within the scope of the present invention and that multiple protocol stacks may simultaneously execute in a consignment node. Therefore the get session identification program may have multiple instances to connect and monitor the various protocols. After the get session identification has appropriately answered an incoming call to the consignment node it may invoke the display welcome message and menu routine .

It is understood that the get session identification provides sufficient information to the display welcome message and menu to allow the display welcome message and menu to connect to the appropriate session or virtual channel. At this juncture if the participant is using an approved interface program the interface program will send a predetermined code to indicate its version and other characteristics of its display driver. If a participant is logging in from a TTY terminal or other terminal the display welcome message and menu may detect this information and send the appropriate TTY welcome message. This procedure may also be used to identify features and languages supported on various internet world wide web browsers. It is understood that the welcome message is viewed by the consignment node user as virtual advertising space that may be sold by the consignment node user or coordinated with the master control node discussed in detail below . The participant may respond to the display welcome message and menu program by giving an appropriate log on response . The get log on response may verify and grant a level of access privileges to the participant. It is understood that the consignment node user may require the get log in response to retrieve a credit card number pin number user ID and the like to grant access privileges. If a participant is using a TTY terminal those sessions may be shunted to the download interface program DIP routine to receive an appropriate interface program from the consignment node. The DIP may present a list of choices as to what version interface program should be downloaded such as DOS Windows UNIX MAC platforms and what transfer program is desired such as Kermit Xmodem FTP and the like. A participant with a participant interface program may also elect to receive a new interface program from the DIP . It is understood that an older no longer supported interface program participant may be shunted to the DIP to receive a new interface program.

A participant with a supported interface program may select the auction market or agent handler sections of the consignment node. If a participant selects auction the participant may be presented with a menu of auction selections such as auctions in session future auction times dates locations and topics and auction preview. If a participant selects auctions in session the participants session is passed to the appropriate auction handler as discussed below. If a participant selects future auctions the participant will be given a list of future auction times dates terms locations and topics of auctions on this and other consignment nodes. It is understood that these displays represent a virtual advertising opportunity for the consignment node user and the advertising space may be sold by the consignment node user or by the master control node. If the participant selects the auction preview the auction process passes the participant session to the market session with data that indicates an auction preview desired by the user.

If the participant selects the market choice the participant is given a menu of markets that the participants may browse discussed further below. If the participant selects the agent handler the participant may be provided with an electronic form to create a search for a good. The participant may then execute this Agent s search request to search the network of consignment nodes databases to look for the desired goods. The Agent is discussed more fully below. The Agent Handler also receives incoming calls from other agents to process the external agents search request on the consignment node. The participant interface and consignment node participant functions are discussed in detail below. It is understood that the agent may also function between virtual markets on a market maker computer and with the transaction archive database discussed below. The discussion now turns to the operation of the consignment node by the user.

The consignment node user may invoke the consignment node program to enter the posting mode to create a data record for the good. The posting mode initializes the consignment node to receive information on a new good. The initialization step displays a data record with data fields on the consignment node terminal for the user to fill in information on the good. The initialization step also initializes the consignment node peripheral devices such as the digital camera and the printer . The consignment node user then photographs or digitizes the image of the good from one or more perspectives as well known to the digital camera arts. The consignment node receives the digitized image s at receive image step. The consignment node program then prompts the consignment node user for information on the good . The consignment node receives information that the consignment node user inputs to the data record displayed at step . The consignment node program verifies that the necessary information such as owners name reserve price market or auction designation is in the data record. The verify step will reject the record and return the consignment node user data entry mode if the record does not have the minimum information. If the record is verified as complete enough to commit to the consignment node database a data record is created and linked into the consignment node database. The consignment node program then generates and prints a bar code that indicated the data record. The bar code system is used by the consignment node to maintain an accurate inventory and is a hook for local sales discussed below . The posting routine may then exit and return from the posting program. By repeating the posting routine of the consignment node user may build a database of goods for the consignment node market auction and or agent searches.

A second embodiment to the present invention shown in uses a low cost portable posting terminal to allow the virtual presentment of goods to market. The posting terminal has a digital camera a bar code printer a bar code scanner a modern and posting terminal software. The posting terminal works in conjunction with a market maker computer. The market maker computer has a database of goods for sale a posting de posting communication handler a database to world wide web www mapping module a www server a transaction process a posting terminal communication manager a sold database a shipping database and an account database and has much of the functionality of the previously described consignment node.

The posting terminal and market maker computer functional block diagram is shown in . The posting terminal has a camera interface and image processing module a record maker module a storage unit for storing images and records that have not been posted a post module a select records module a post request module a print bar code module a get module a storage unit for holding posted records and return codes a deposit module a get code module and de post request module a bar code scanner interface another instance of the get mail module a mail sales routine a print shipping label routine a notify store routine and a check sales module . The posting terminal contacts a market maker computer to check sales to post goods to de post goods and to receive mail. The posting terminal is easier to administrate than a consignment node because it behaves like a retail point of sale terminal to manage goods that have been posted and are locally sold. The bar code labeling and scanning routines and methods make it easy for the posting terminal user to maintain an accurate account of what goods have been posted de posted sold and or shipped. The posting terminal may use an MS DOS or MS WINDOWS operating system that is much easier for a small store owner to operate and administer than a complex multi user system like UNIX or WINDOWS NT.

The posting terminal functionality begins with a user taking a digital picture with the posting terminal digital camera and connecting the digital camera to the camera interface module . The user selects an icon on a graphical user interface generated by the posting terminal software to pull the digital pictures from the digital camera. It is understood that other input devices such as scanners and the like may be use in place of the digital camera. The image process module may convert the digital picture to a compressed data format such as PEG or MPEG more suitable for communication of the image across a data link. It is understood that the image may keep its full resolution for posting. The posting terminal then invokes the record maker routine . The record maker routine may display the image or allow the user to select an image from storage unit . The record maker may display on a posting terminal display a data entry record with pre defined text fields number fields buttons knobs and other graphical user interface objects to allow a user to enter data to complete a posting record.

The posting terminal user enters descriptions such as the name of the item the sale price of the item and a brief description of the item and the like to compose a record. It is understood that a posting terminal user may enter a retail price and a wholesale price. The retail price may then be displayed to participants . Other retail participants may receive the wholesale price. It is understood that this two tiered pricing scheme may be used to network retail store owners to provide additional incentives for the retail participants to use the network to locate goods and generate sales at the retail point of sale. For example a retailer may charge the retail price for goods to store customers white obtaining the benefits e.g. the profit margin of wholesale or discounted pricing for goods. It is understood that the restricted fields are coordinated with the structure of the For Sale database to guide a posting terminal user in the proper selection of a market category and subcategory of the posting of a good. Categories may include jewelry rugs and tapestry tools quilts furniture art deco books pens coins stamps and costumes and clothing. Subcategories may include painting and drawings sculpture vintage clothing costumes shoes bags hats wedding gowns furs rug types and the like to structure the database. The user may also select from a list box what category and sub category from restricted fields in which to post a good. Referring back to the user may store a composed record on the storage device . The record maker routine may also contain a command button to immediately post the record . It is understood that the user may designate a time at which the posting terminal may automatically contact the market maker computer and post the selected goods. The post request module may allow a user to select records from storage unit or as in the case where the user selected the immediate post command the post module may accept a record as an input. The ability of the posting terminal to store and select records for posting asynchronously from when a record is created allows a user to compose records when the posting terminal is isolated from communication with a market maker computer . The post module may invoke the post request module to post the designated records on the market and make a virtual presentment of a good. Rules and procedures may be imposed on the posting terminal user through licensing and franchise agreements. Such rules may include the requirement that all goods posted must be in the physical and legal possession of the posting terminal franchisee or licensee that legal possession of a good may be obtained by lawful ownership or through a franchise approved bailment or consignment contract. It is understood that these rules and legal frame work may be imposed to allow the posted record to convey a legal title to a good such that the ownership designated in the record grants lawful ownership to the good designated by the record. The post request module may use a communication package and protocols to transfer the records to the market maker computer . Communication libraries are packaged and are commercially available from WCSC 2740 S. Dairy Ashfor Suite 188 Houston Tex. 77077 and from Marshallsoft Computing Inc. at P.O. Box 4543 Huntsville Ala. 35815. The communication protocols such as FTP and KERMIT may be enhanced by using known encryption and authentication techniques to provide an ultra secure posting interface. The posting record may also include a header that identifies a store identification user identification passwords and the like to allow the market maker computer to verify authenticity approve authorization and track usage of the posting terminal by a particular posting terminal and posting terminal user.

The market maker computer may very and accept a record and generate and send a unique bar code number for each record. The bar code number may contain a code that identifies a posting terminal . The posting terminal accepts the bar code and places the code in the appropriate record. The unique code generated for each successfully posted record may serve as confirmation that a good has been successfully posted. The record may then be stored on storage unit as a confirmed posted record. When the posting terminals post request module is finished the posting terminal or the market maker computer may invoke a mail update routine to pass mail from the market maker computer to the posting terminal . Mail topics may include sales information network news and notification of upcoming events . The de post module may use the bar code scanner to receive a posted collectible s identification code. The deposit module may call the de post request routine to establish communications between the posting terminal and the market maker computer . The de post request module sends the item or collectible bar code to the post de post handler . The post de post handler may remove the collectible identified by the bar code from the for sale database if the de posting terminal identification has legal title to the identified collectible as indicated in a for sale record the market maker computer may send a de post confirm code to the posting terminal . The posting terminal may process the confirm signal by indicating that the de posting procedures was performed. If legal title to the posted collectible good does not belong to the deposting requesting entity e.g. the deposting terminal then indicated by the posting terminal identification the market maker computer may report the collectible good status e.g. sold to the de post request module . This may indicate to the posting terminal user that a bailee relationship now exists between the store and the new legal owner. It is understood that this bailee relationship may be contractually created and enforced through the franchise contract between the posting terminal user and the franchise granting authority. It is also understood that the bailee agreement may be for a predetermined time and or require the posting terminal user to hold a good for a predetermined time and or ship the good to a long term storage facility to ease the bailee burden of posting terminal users where a participant elects to hold legal ownership but keep the good available in the electronic market place for the long term. It is understood that a bond and or insurance requirements may be required for the posting terminal user and or the long term storage facility to provide assurance to a long term collectible investor that the risk of loss of the collectable good asset is maintained or at least hedged against loss. It is understood that a good may have sold and the new owner has elected to re sell the good at a higher price. In this instance the de posting terminal wilt be advised that the good has been sold and advised of the new sales price. The posting terminal may then transact the local sale at the new price. After the de post request module is finished it may invoke or the market maker computer may invoke the get mail routine to send mail between the market maker computer and the posting terminal . It is understood that through the procedures of generating a unique code for each posted good checking a unique code that identifies each posting terminal against the legal owner entry in a posted good on the market maker computer the database of for sale goods will be extremely reliable and accurate and assure that a locally sold goods that have already been sold on the market maker computer will not be inadvertently sold twice. The procedures when used in conjunction with the rules and procedures imposed on the posting terminal user through a franchising or licensing legal framework assure that 1 when a record of a good is found on the market maker computer by a participant or another retailer it is in fact for sale and is in the physical and legal possession of a trusted franchise and 2 that when a bona fide purchase price is tendered by a participant or another retailer the legal title to a good as represented by the record will transfer to the buyer with an immediate or nearly immediate finality to the transaction. This frame work of trusted franchisee high confidence and accurate market database and the legal finality of transaction where the legal transaction cash clearing function is performed by the market maker computer e.g. the participant credit card number or other payment means is only revealed and brokered by the market maker computer is a massive step toward building confidence and trust between a small collectable merchant and participant with electronic transactions. These procedures may be used to give assurances and create trust to participants who for example would like to buy and art deco collectable from a collectable shop in Russia but is very reluctant to send credit card information to an unknown Russian collectable shop for the obvious concerns of credit card fraud and or fraud in the bona fides of the collectable good itself. Here however the franchising authority polices the franchisees to revoke the franchise if a fraud and or misrepresentations of the bona tides of a collectable good is taking place by the posting terminal user and the assurance that credit card numbers are only revealed to the market maker computer and not accessible to the in this example the Russian collectable store. This allows the Russian collectible store to receive the business good will of the electronic collectible market place of the present invention to establish immediate trust with prospective electronic customers.

The market maker computer may have mail module a post de post handler module a security module database server a database to www map module a www page server a transaction processor a for sale database a sold database a shipped database and an account database . A www to database mapping module is commercially available from Expertelligence Inc. Santa Barbara Calif. at 805 962 2558. Such a mapping module may map a ODBC database such as Microsoft Access to a www page. The market maker computer may serve four primary functions. The first function is the call handler for processing calls from a posting terminals . The second function is a database to www mapping function to present participants and other retailers with a means to access the market database. The third function is to provide a means to process transactions from participants by clearing a transaction and transferring legal title to a good. The fourth function is to provide a means for managing the notification of the sale of a good to posting terminals .

The market maker computer may use an accounts database to track payments due to posting terminal users. The clear accounts module may print checks due to posting terminal users. It is understood that electronic funds transfer techniques may be used for clearing account balances for posting terminal users. A modem bank may be used to receive posting calls from posting terminals. It is understood that the modem bank may be replaced by a network connection to the internet. At this juncture it is believed that an off line that is a modem bank connection offers the best security for the posting of goods. However it is understood that a network connection e.g. through the internet is within the scope of the present invention.

A security module may be used to provide identification and password security. It is understood that other security and authentication techniques may be used at security module . It is understood that database server may be an ODBC server available from many commercial database provide. Much of the market maker computers functionality is disclosed above in the consignment node functionality. The databases may be structured to indicate of for sale database and sold database and auction database and a shipped database . It is understood that records may move between the databases by book entry transaction. The transaction processor may use RSA certificates and or other well known techniques to process secured transactions between the market maker computer and participants and . It is understood that the transaction processor may interface with external payment systems . It is understood that participant accounts may be tracked at the market maker computer . Moreover it is understood that account surpluses may be acquired by participants speculating in collectable goods may be invested in highly liquid and sale assets such as U.S. Treasury bills to provide and interest bearing accounting for positive cash balances. This provides an incentive or at least a hedge against inflation for a participant to keep funds within the collectible market place and to use these funds to speculate in the collectible market. By using funds available at the market maker computer participants can reduce the transaction costs associated with credit cards and other transaction clearing means and optimize the participants return on price movements in the buying and selling of collectable goods. It is within the scope of the present invention to allow access to the electronic collectable market through stock brokers banks and other transaction providers through these providers private transaction networks e.g. those networks that use dial in telephone lines to home computers and or dedicated data lines. It is within the scope of the present invention to allow professional investment advisors to operate funds such as investment companies mutual fund partnerships and the like that use collectable goods as part of the funds assets. It is understood that the market history may be archived and provided to investment advisors and or posting terminal users and or participants on a CD ROM or other mass storage medium to allow off line analysis of trends in the collectable goods market. This will allow or create a new class of learned speculators in this unique novel and non obvious electronic market place and network of trusted franchisees in the collectable goods domain it is also within the scope to the present invention to create the liquidity volume and availability analysis to allow the creation of a secondary and derivative market for option and futures contracts and other speculative constructs to be created with the underlying assets as collectable goods in the electronic market place of the present invention.

Many variations of the present invention are possible once the present invention is known to those skilled in the arts and are within the spirit and scope of the present invention. Those skilled in the arts will be able to make many variations on the present invention once this invention is known to the arts.

