---

title: Systems and methods for a centralized gift registry with upload and merge of a retailer-specific registry
abstract: Systems and methods for that allow for the creation and management of a centralized gift registry are described. A retailer-specific registry is imported into the centralized gift registry. A gift list is created and displayed. Gift givers may select a gift from the gift list of the centralized gift registry. In one embodiment, when a purchase of a gift occurs, the gift list is updated. Updates to gifts are sent between the centralized gift registry and the retailer-specific registries, such that the gifts common to these registries are synchronized. This synchronization may involve the use of APIs at the centralized gift registry or the retailer-specific registries. The centralized gift registry system automatically searches for all retailer-specific registries pertaining to the gift registrant. The centralized gift registry system may request a retailer's system for information on gift items of a respective retailer-specific registry.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08478656&OS=08478656&RS=08478656
owner: XO Group Inc.
number: 08478656
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120612
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 757 424 filed Apr. 9 2010 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This disclosure relates generally to the field of gift registries. More particularly this disclosure relates to systems and methods for merging and managing gift registries.

Gift registries are known and used in a number of different markets with the most common area being wedding registries. Gift registries may also be referred to as wish lists. Gift registries include a list of gift items or gifts that a gift registrant desires. Gift registrants may also be referred to as gift recipients. The advent of widespread access to communications networks such as the Internet has led to the development of web applications capable of accessing gift registries. Some gift registries are associated with an event. An event may be for example an engagement wedding anniversary birthday graduation religious holiday baby shower baptism confirmation Mother s day Father s day or any other significant event. Such gift registries may in addition to gift information have event information such as type and date of an event.

Retailers that provide registry services hosted at their own servers or by third party servers over a communications network such as the Internet typically restrict the content of their retailer specific gift registries to products offered by the retailer. Thus gift registrants for major events such as weddings must still register with several different retailers in order to create such retailer specific registries in order to obtain all their desired gifts. Often gift registrants are not satisfied with the scope of their selections even after creating several different retailer specific registries. In fact the typical gift registrant does not create more retailer specific registries because of the burden it places on guests and because of the high degree of effort required e.g. in updating gifts on each retailer specific registry to maintain such a large number of retailer specific registries. Even with the introduction of Internet accessible gift registries retailer specific gift registries require gift givers attempting to buy gifts for gift registrants to search multiple retailer specific web sites. Such an inconvenience is magnified when the gift giver does not know where the gift registrant is registered.

A multi retailer registry is one in which the gift list of the gift registry is a combination of gifts from a plurality of retailers. The multi retailer registry may be created for example by a gift registrant manually entering large amounts of information such as a gift descriptions prices and possible retailers where the gift items can be found. In this respect multi retailer registries are quite unsatisfactory. First because the gift registrant must manually enter large amounts of information multi retailer registries are not gift registrant friendly. Second because multi retailer registries are generally not associated with particular retailers they do not receive any communication from a respective retailer. Without retailer communication the multi retailer registry is not updated e.g. when purchases are made. Thus gift givers and or gift registrants must diligently update the multi retailer registry themselves e.g. after making changes to a gift item or making a purchase from a retailer specific registry.

It is an objective of the present disclosure to provide systems and methods for a centralized gift registry system. The centralized gift registry includes gift items from at least one retailer specific registry. A retailer specific registry whose items have been merged into the gift list of the centralized gift registry system is also referred to as an associated retailer specific registry i.e. the centralized gift registry is associated with the respective retailer specific registry. For example gifts may be merged into the gift list of the centralized gift registry from existing retailer specific gift registries e.g. for retailers such as MACY S TARGET etc. . In some embodiments the centralized gift registry may also include gifts added from a retailer s catalog e.g. using a centralized gift registry Add from Anywhere feature . In some embodiments the centralized gift registry may also include gifts added from the centralized gift registry s catalog of gift items.

In some embodiments a centralized gift registry system may include a centralized gift registry of a gift registrant. The centralized gift registry itself may include a gift common between the centralized gift registry and a retailer specific registry. The centralized gift registry system may also include a a memory for storing the centralized gift registry and a network interface for communicating with a communications network. The communications network is accessible to at least one retailer specific registry a gift giver and the gift registrant. The centralized gift registry system may also include a processor in communication with the memory and the network interface.

In some embodiments the centralized gift registry system is configured such that automatic synchronization of gifts that are common to the centralized gift registry and the retailer specific registries occurs in near real time or at periodic intervals. Synchronization may include the propagation of updates to gift items common to a centralized gift registry and a retailer specific gift registry. These updates may be required when for example a gift giver purchases a gift or a gift registrant updates the desired quantity for a gift. For example in some embodiments the processor of the centralized gift registry system may be configured to receive e.g. over a communications network an update to a gift of the centralized gift registry from a gift giver a gift registrant or at least one retailer specific registry system. The processor of the centralized gift registry system may also be configured to send e.g. over the communications network an update to a gift from the centralized gift registry system to the at least one retailer specific registry system. An update includes at least one of a change in the desired quantity of the gift a decrease in the desired quantity of the gift responsive to a purchase request a deletion of a gift from the centralized or retailer specific gift registry and an addition of a gift to the centralized or retailer specific gift registry. The processor may also be configured to modify the centralized gift registry to include the update to the gift. In this manner the gift items common to the at least one retailer specific registry and the centralized gift registry is synchronized. This process may be referred to as linking and syncing the retailer specific registry with the centralized gift registry. The synchronization may occur in near real time or periodically. The synchronization period may be any suitable period e.g. between every two minutes and every 24 hours.

In some embodiments the synchronization of gifts may be performed using an Application Programming Interface API of the centralized gift registry system and or a retailer system s API configured to allow the exchange of data between the centralized registry and the retailer specific registries. For example the processor of the centralized gift registry system may send a request via an API function call to the retailer specific registry system. In some embodiments a gift giver or a gift registrant may search for and or filter the gift items in the centralized gift registry. The search and or filter operations may be performed across a broad range of categories including e.g. by retailer by category e.g. kitchen bedroom bathroom and by price.

In some embodiments when the purchase of a gift item or other update to the retailer specific registry occurs the centralized gift registry is updated and gift item updates are sent to the retailers and or existing retailer specific registry hosts to update their respective registries. These updates may be sent by generating and transmitting a request from the centralized gift registry system to the retailer specific registry system s API.

In some embodiments when a gift registrant accesses the centralized gift registry the centralized gift registry system automatically searches for all retailer online and retailer store registries pertaining to the gift registrant. The gift items from the detected retailer specific registries are then uploaded and merged i.e. imported into the gift list of the centralized gift registry. In some embodiments the processor of the centralized gift registry may be configured to receive a request from the gift registrant to import a retailer specific registry for the gift registrant into the centralized gift registry. In other embodiments the processor may automatically i.e. without a request from the gift registrant import a retailer specific registry for the gift registrant into the centralized gift registry. The processor of centralized gift registry system is also configured to receive information on gift items of the retailer specific registry and import the gift items of the retailer specific registry into the centralized gift registry. In this manner a gift common to the centralized gift registry and at least one retailer specific registry is included on the gift registry.

In some embodiments the creation of the centralized gift registry may provoke the creation of retailer specific registries on the respective retailers systems. In some embodiments the centralized gift registry system includes a centralized gift registry of a gift registrant including a gift available from at least one retailer and the processor of the centralized gift registry system is configured to send a request for creating a retailer specific registry of the gift registrant. The retailer specific registry is associated with the at least one retailer such that the gift is included on both the centralized gift registry and the retailer specific registry. In some embodiments the processor first determines if the retailer specific registry of the gift registrant exists and sends the request for creating the retailer specific registry in response to this determination. If the retailer specific registry exists the processor sends a request to add the gift to the retailer specific registry. In some embodiments the processor is configured to receive a request from the gift registrant for creating the retailer specific registry.

In some embodiments when gifts are added to the gift list of the centralized gift registry from a retailer s catalog one or more retailer specific registries including these gift items may be created. In other embodiments when a gift registrant accesses the centralized gift registry to create or modify their gift list they may select one or more retailers. The centralized gift registry system may then automatically submit a request for the creation of retailer specific registries at each of the retailers selected by the gift registrant based in part on information provided to the centralized gift registry by the gift registrant. The information may be associated with one or more gift items. This creation process may involve the use of retailer specific and or centralized gift registry system s APIs. The registry creation process may involve generating and transmitting a request for creation of the registry from the centralized gift registry to the respective retailer system s API. Gifts that pertain to a particular retailer s system are passed on to that retailer s system allowing for the creation of one or more retailer specific registries using gift items from the centralized gift registry.

Various illustrative devices and platforms that may implement embodiments of the present centralized gift registry system are described in more detail below with reference to B and . Display screens for illustrative embodiments are described with reference to A C A and B. While the display screens of A C A and B are illustrated as full or partial screen displays e.g. web pages they may generally be displayed in any suitable size or format. A B A B A and B contain illustrative process flow diagrams for processes that may be implemented on the centralized gift registry systems of B and to generate displays e.g. web pages e.g. the display screens of A C A and B.

Network interface may include a cable modem an integrated services digital network ISDN modem a digital subscriber line DSL modem a telephone modem a wireless modem a satellite receiver a router a wireless or wired modem a cellular or satellite phone or any other suitable equipment that allows for communication between the web app servers and a communications network . System network and communications network may be any suitable wired or wireless network including a broadcast cable or satellite television network and or the Internet. User interface may include a PC a laptop a tablet a WEBTV box a personal computer television PC TV a PC media server a PC media center a PDA a mobile telephone or any other user computer equipment including storage devices user input devices and display devices. WEBTV is a trademark owned by Microsoft Corp. Centralized gift registry system may include a router e.g. a gateway router manufactured by Cisco Corp. and or a load balancer. The router may serve as a gateway between centralized gift registry system and communications network while the load balancer may function to balance the storage load among the storage devices and in within storage

Centralized gift registry system may communicate with one or more gift givers one or more gift registrants and one or more retailer systems over communications network . The retailer systems host one or more retailer specific registries. Each gift giver and gift registrant may have their own user equipment. The user equipment may include a user interface and or a network interface . Retailer may include a web app server or other suitable computer equipment capable of communicating with web app server of centralized gift registry system . Each of the network interfaces may include a cable modem an integrated services digital network ISDN modem a digital subscriber line DSL modem a telephone modem a wireless modem a satellite receiver a router a wireless or wired modem a cellular or satellite phone or any other suitable equipment that allows for communication with communications network . Each user interface may include a keyboard a mouse a PC a laptop a tablet a WEBTV box a personal computer television PC TV a PC media server a PC media center a PDA a mobile telephone or any other user computer equipment including storage devices user input devices and display devices. For instance retailer system may have associated storage device . Storage device may include memory. This memory may be used to store any suitable information for the retailer. In some embodiments memory within storage device may store computer readable program instructions e.g. an API which when executed by a processor within a computing device not shown at retailer system may perform a particular process. In some embodiments memory within storage device may store one or more data structures described in detail below in reference to associated with items available for purchase at the retailer items on gift lists for gift registrants one or more gift lists common to a retailer s retailer specific registry system and centralized gift registry system or may store any other suitable information.

Web app server of centralized gift registry system may act as a host for a centralized gift registry such as a wedding registry. The gifts on the gift list of the centralized gift registry may be stored in storage in the form of any suitable data structure and using any suitable database programming environment e.g. a MySQL database associated with a Linux or Apache server. In such an implementation one set of storage devices may act as the master MySQL database while the other set of storage devices may act as the slave MySQL database. Web app server may receive messages from a gift registrant over communications network . These messages may include requests for creating the centralized gift registry requests for searching for an associated retailer specific registry requests for adding items to the centralized gift registry requests for removing items from the centralized gift registry requests for adding a cash gift to the centralized gift registry requests to pass messages to one or more gift givers requests for removing a cash gift from the centralized gift registry requests for modifying display screens e.g. web pages of the centralized gift registry requests to update the gift list of the centralized gift registry or any other suitable requests. Each of these requests may include a request for authentication whereby the identity of the gift registrant is authenticated with the web app server . These requests may be processed by a processor of web app server using a centralized gift registry API as will be discussed further in reference to . In response to the received requests web app server may generate and send display screens e.g. in http or XML format or other information associated with the centralized gift registry to a gift registrant .

Web app server may also receive messages from a gift giver over communications network . These messages may include requests for searching for a gift registrant s centralized registry or a retailer specific registry that is associated with the gift registrant s centralized gift registry requests for purchasing gifts from the centralized gift registry requests to pass a message to a gift registrant requests for receiving display screens including gifts from a gift registrant s gift list requests for modifying display screens of the centralized gift registry or any other suitable requests. Each of these requests may include a request for authentication whereby the identity of the gift giver is authenticated with the web app server . These requests may also be processed by a processor of web app server using the centralized gift registry system s API as will be discussed further in reference to . In response to the received requests web app server may send display screens e.g. in http format or other information to the gift giver or gift registrant .

Web app server may also receive messages from a retailer system e.g. from the retailer s retailer specific registry system over communications network . These messages may include requests for searching for a gift registrant s centralized gift registry requests for purchasing gifts or other items from the centralized gift registry requests to pass a message to a gift registrant or a gift giver requests for receiving display screens including gifts from a gift registrant s gift list requests for modifying display screens of the centralized gift registry or any other suitable messages. Each of these requests may include a request for authentication whereby the identity of the retailer is authenticated with the web app server . These requests may also be processed by a processor of web app server using the centralized gift registry API as will be discussed further in reference to . In response to the received requests web app server may send display screens e.g. in http format or other information to the retailer system

In some embodiments the e commerce server s is used to process purchase requests received by the web app server . In some embodiments e commerce servers associated with retailer s are configured to process purchase requests received by either the centralized gift registry system or an associated retailer specific registry system. Once the purchase request has been fulfilled by an e commerce server an indication that the purchase request has been fulfilled may be transmitted between the centralized gift registry system and an associated retailer specific registry system.

In some embodiments the retailer specific and or centralized gift registry system s APIs are a set of allowable http request messages and a suitably defined set of responses. The responses may be sent in any suitable language e.g. REST with XML or JSON. Programming references for these languages are readily available and those skilled in the art will appreciate their availability. In some embodiments the centralized gift registry system API allows for a number of requests from a retailer. For instance a retailer web app server may be able to search for view create and edit registries via API function calls to the centralized gift registry system.

In some embodiments each request made via the centralized gift registry system s API must be authenticated. An API request may also be referred to as an API function call. This authentication may be performed in any suitable manner e.g. using a client server public private key system e.g. by computing a digital signature using the HMAC SHA1 signature method. For instance requests made by either the centralized gift registry system or the retailer specific registry system may be authenticated by computing a digital signature using the HMAC SHA1 signature method. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the retailer specific registry system or centralized gift registry system may digitally sign an API request using a secret private key that only these systems and the respective API web app server know. To carry out such authentication each gift registry system s API request may include fields such as api key a public key provided to the retailer specific registry system or centralized gift registry system that allows the API to know their identity api sig e.g. a HMAC SHA1 signature of the request that is generated by the retailer specific registry system or centralized gift registry system client using their private key nonce a unique random ID generated by the retailer specific registry system or centralized gift registry system to identify their request date the date and or time when the request is made . In some embodiments access to the centralized gift registry system API may be restricted such that a retailer s system will only receive a public key and a private key string if the retailer has permission to make requests the centralized gift registry system API. As with most public private key systems the private key string is used only to digitally sign the API request and is not included in the API request. On the other hand the public key is included in each API request so that the centralized gift registry system can determine based at least in part on the digital signature of the API request that the retailer specific registry system s private key generated the API request.

In some embodiments the retailer web app server may host a retailer gift registry while the gift registry web app server will host a centralized gift registry. The centralized gift registry may include gift items available from multiple retailers catalogs and or retailer specific registries. These gift items may be added into the gift list stored on the centralized gift registry system e.g. of centralized gift registry system of . The retailer specific registry system and or the centralized gift registry system may store information in addition to the registries themselves. This information may include information about a gift registrant e.g. an upcoming event contact information for the gift registrant shipping and mailing address information for the gift registrant and or information regarding one or more gift items associated with the retailer s offerings. In some embodiments the retailer web app server does not host a retailer specific gift registry but may provide this information to the centralized gift registry in response to requests made via the retailer specific registry system s API. In some embodiments the retailer web app server does not host a retailer specific gift registry and does not include an API. In this case the retailer may provide information to the centralized gift registry in response to scraping requests e.g. in http it receives from the centralized gift registry. The centralized gift registry web app server may also provide information to a retailer in response to requests made via the retailer specific gift registry system s API.

There are several requests that can be made via an API to a web app server. A SEARCH API request may be used to perform registry searches and query a centralized gift registry or retailer specific registry for registries that match the profile and or event of a particular gift registrant. The details for such a registry may be retrieved with a request via the API. A SEARCH API request may include several fields and or variables in any suitable format. For example a SEARCH API request may include inter alia the fields variables fn first name of gift registrant in last name of gift registrant ain authentication information e.g. a password associated with a respective API em month of gift registrant s event ey year of gift registrant s event and limit the quantity of results to return e.g. a maximum of 100 . A GET API request may be used to obtain a complete collection of all gifts of a gift list of the retailer specific or centralized gift registry. Optionally this collection may include so called buy uniform resource locators URLs for each gift item that can be used to determine the desired quantity and number purchased for a particular gift item. Such URLs may be transmitted to the gift registry system s API web server from an e commerce server e.g. server . A GET API request may include inter alia the fields variables fn first name of gift registrant ln last name of gift registrant gl list of gift items gn number of gift items rsrh host of the retailer specific registry ain authentication information e.g. a password associated with a respective API em month of gift registrant s event ey year of gift registrant s event and limit the quantity of results to return e.g. a maximum of 100 . A POST API request may be used to add an item to a centralized or retailer specific gift registry or to update an item on a centralized or retailer specific gift registry. The centralized or retailer specific gift registry system s API may be used to add update centralized or retailer specific gift registry items and respond to the requester with a successfully added or pending http message. A POST API request may include inter alia the fields variables fn first name of gift registrant ln last name of gift registrant ugi gift item update e.g. add delete increase quantity to x decrease quantity to y gn number of gift items rsrh host of the retailer specific registry ain authentication information e.g. a password associated with a respective API em month of gift registrant s event and ey year of gift registrant s event .

Each of the above described requests may require authentication by the web app server hosting the API as described above. A CREATE API request may be used to create a retailer specific gift registry. This API request is generally used if or when the centralized gift registry system wants to create one or more retailer specific registries on respective retailer websites or stores or vice versa. A POST API request may include inter alia the fields variables fn first name of gift registrant ln last name of gift registrant gi gift item information e.g. SKU number bar code unique identifier gc gift item category e.g. kitchen bedding bath gn number of gift items rsrh host of the retailer specific registry ain authentication information e.g. a password associated with a respective API em month of gift registrant s event and ey year of gift registrant s event . Those skilled in the art will come to realize that each of the above described requests may require authentication by the web app server hosting the API as described above. Furthermore each of the above described requests may include any suitable fields and or variables. As mentioned above the retailer and or centralized gift registry systems may not include an API. In these embodiments requests may be made using a non API environment e.g. scraping requests may be made to the centralized gift registry or retailer web app server e.g. in http format.

As described above a retailer specific registry and or a centralized gift registry includes information about items on a gift list. This information may be stored in a data structure within a memory such as memory in storage or .

In pointer P  associated with Gift Item  is associated with gift item data structure . Gift item data structure may include alphanumeric identifiers such as Gift Item  identifier and a unique identifier Uni ID  . These identifiers may alone or in combination with one another uniquely identify a gift item on the gift list of a gift registrant. In addition gift item data structure may also include other metadata and pointers associated with gift item Gift Item . This metadata may include a description of a retailer which sells the gift item Gift Retailer a description of the gift item Gift Description a description of a category for the gift item Gift Category a date on which the gift item was added to the centralized or retailer specific gift registry Gift Date Added a time at which the gift item was added to the centralized or retailer specific gift registry Gift Time Added and a description of the last time there was a change in any information stored in structure Gift Last Sync . Suitable Gift Description metadata may include a text and or image that is associated with a particular gift. Suitable Gift Category metadata may include any suitable gift category e.g. bedding kitchen glassware flatware and silverware. Each of these metadata may have associated pointers P  P  P  P  and P . These pointers may be associated with yet other data structures which may contain additional metadata and or pointers. In some embodiments a gift list may be associated with a daisy chained set of data structures.

In some embodiments data structures and may be used in a centralized or retailer specific gift registry system search and or filter task. The alphanumeric identifiers metadata and or pointers associated with a set of gift items e.g. Gift Item  . . . Gift Item N may be used by a suitable search or filtering algorithm to find information required by the centralized or retailer specific gift registry system. For instance the metadata Gift Category in the gift item data structures stored in the memory of the centralized or retailer specific gift registry system may be searched to find gift items of only a particular category. For instance the centralized or retailer specific gift registry system may need to find and display gift items in the glassware category and may find these items by searching through the centralized or retailer specific gift registry data structures for items whose Gift Category metadata includes glassware.

The metadata and pointers described above are merely illustrative. Those skilled in the art will come to realize that any suitable information associated with a gift on a gift list may be stored in such data structures and any suitable search and or filter tasks may be performed using these data structures.

Next we turn to illustrative display screens generated by a centralized gift registry system such as centralized gift registry system . In some embodiments these display screens may be web pages generated by the web app server or of the centralized gift registry system and may be transmitted to a gift registrant or a gift giver over the communications network allowing these users to interact with the centralized gift registry system .

With continued reference to registry toolbar includes hyperlinks for creating a centralized gift registry or importing a retailer specific registry into the centralized gift registry. Optionally registry toolbar includes hyperlinks for finding a centralized gift registry styleboards or adding gift items to a registry from anywhere i.e. Add from Anywhere feature . Styleboards refer to a plurality of gift items associated with a particular gift theme e.g. gift items pertaining to a gift registrant s bedroom living room or kitchen on the gift registrant s gift registry. In some embodiments a styleboard is a web page that includes a display of this plurality of gift items. The display may include a suitable background e.g. the base color of the web page as well as a suitable arrangement of the gift items. Styleboards may be useful as they allow gift givers to view and or purchase gifts that pertain to a gift registrant s gift theme. Thus a gift giver selecting gift items may access a particular styleboard of a gift registrant to select these gift items for viewing or purchasing. Each of top section or bottom section may include other menus e.g. drop down menus toolbars or areas that include options and or hyperlinks for navigating through display screens that may be generated by the centralized gift registry system.

In some embodiments when a gift registrant selects the styleboards hyperlink the gift registrant will be able to access a web page generated by the centralized gift registry system which explains the concept of styleboard and directions for creating and editing styleboards. In some embodiments a gift registrant may create or modify a background for a styleboard. In some embodiments a gift giver or gift registrant may view the gift list of the centralized gift registry as a styleboard. For example a gift registrant may view their gift list add more gift items to the styleboard e.g. from a retailer catalog or retailer specific registry.

With reference to display screen includes a top section bottom section and side section . Top section may display an advertisement relating to the centralized gift registry as shown. Side section includes a toolbar including links and links . Links may include links to other display screens including but not limited to a link for creating a centralized gift registry a link for importing a retailer specific registry an add from anywhere link for adding items from a retailer s catalog or retailer specific registry to the centralized gift registry a link that allows a user to share their gift list of the centralized gift registry with one or more gift givers a link that allows a user to create announcement cards for an event and a link to find a centralized gift registry or a retailer specific gift registry. Links include links related to adding gift items retailer products to the centralized gift registry. These products may be added by category by retailer by room or by color. Links also include a link to allow a gift registrant to add a cash gift item e.g. a request to one or more gift givers for a certain amount of currency that could be used towards a couch. Cash gifts will be described further in relation to the display screens of . Each of these selections may involve the use of an API function call to a respective retailer specific registry system as described above in relation to .

Referring now to display screen may be generated and transmitted e.g. over communications network to a gift registrant to allow them to add items to their centralized gift registry. Display screen may be generated and transmitted e.g. over communications network to a gift registrant when they click on one of the links . Display screen includes a marketing message relating to creating a centralized gift registry. Any suitable marketing message may appear in this area on display screen . In display screen a gift registrant begins by naming their gift list step 1 and then adding items to the registry step 2 . Gift registrants may add items from a particular retailer using link or by clicking on the retailer logos . Each of the retailer names displayed in display screen are registered marks of these retailers. Gift registrants may also add items from any retailer accessible via communications network using the add from anywhere link . Gift registrants may also add items by category using link or by clicking on the images of gift items displayed by category . Suitable categories include dining kitchen and bed and bath . Each of these links when selected may involve the use of an API function call to a respective retailer specific registry system as described above in relation to . Gift registrants may also add items from any retailer s catalog or retailer specific registry accessible via communications network using the add from anywhere link .

With reference to display screen includes a message to a gift registrant. In some embodiments centralized gift registry system may automatically search for a gift registrant s retailer specific registries or other gift registries accessible via communications network . This search may be performed by querying a retailer specific registry system using information previously collected from the gift registrant e.g. their name e mail address date of an event etc. Furthermore this search query may involve the use of an API function call to the retailer specific registry as described above in relation to . Toolbar presents the retailer specific registries that were found during the search and allows a gift registrant to select which of these gift items they would like to import i.e. upload and merge into their centralized gift registry. Optionally a gift registrant may select that the gift items on the centralized gift registry and the retailer specific registry systems be synchronized at all times. Synchronization is a process by which one of these registry systems makes a change to the gift list stored on their respective gift registry system based on changes that have been made to a gift list stored on another gift registry system. Synchronization may involve the use of API function calls as described above in relation to . Once this selection s has been made a gift registrant may begin the importing process by selecting import link . Optionally if a retailer specific registry has not been found by the automatic search a gift registrant may enter information into the search boxes at the bottom of display screen and select the find retailer specific registries link .

With continued reference to FIGS. and A C a gift registrant may select one or more retailer specific registries using toolbar . Once these retailer specific registries have been selected a gift registrant may be allowed several options for importing them. Each of these options may involve the use of an API as described above in relation to . For example display screen illustrates the importing of a MACY S registry allowing a gift registrant to name the gift list into which the MACY S registry gift items will be imported. The gift registrant may continue importing their MACY S registry by selecting the link . Display screen illustrates the importing of two retailer specific registries with a message displayed. The gift registrant may continue importing their retailer specific registries by selecting the link . Display screen illustrates a message that allows a gift registrant make a selection to add the items from one or more retailer specific registries to their gift list and then continue importing these retailer specific registries by selecting link . The importing process may be performed using API function calls as described above in relation to . During the importing process initiated in display screens and data associated with each gift item is stored by the centralized gift registry system e.g. using data structures such as data structures and .

The links shown in toolbar may be similar to those described with respect to the display screens of . Each of the links in toolbar may allow the gift registrant to navigate to display screens that are generated by the centralized gift registry system . Drop down menu and toolbar allow a gift registrant to search through and or filter gift items. For instance toolbar allows a gift registrant to view and or explore their centralized gift registry using centralized gift registry tags e.g. kitchen appliances centralized gift registry categories e.g. kitchen bath centralized gift registry item prices centralized gift registry gift item priority e.g. high medium low and centralized gift registry gift item status e.g. purchased or not purchased . In display screen drop down menu has been selected to display gift items in the order that they were last added to the centralized gift registry. Upon a gift registrant s selection of a particular option for viewing exploring the centralized gift registry gift items centralized gift registry system may access gift item data structures and to search for items that match the selected viewing exploring option.

A gift registrant may alter the information associated with a gift item when interacting with the display screen . For example with respect to gift item the quantity of the gift item may be changed or the gift list associated with the gift item may be changed or the visibility a selection of which of a plurality of gift givers may view the gift item of the gift item may be changed. A gift giver when interacting with the centralized gift registry system may view a display screen that is similar to display screen .

We turn next to detailed descriptions of the processes which may be implemented using centralized gift registry system . In summary A B A B and A B show illustrative process flow diagrams for various processes relating to the creating a centralized gift registry importing retailer specific registry gift items into the gift list of the centralized gift registry system and adding and synchronizing of gift items on the centralized gift registry. Each of these processes may be performed by CPU of centralized gift registry system using calls to one or more APIs as described in relation to and may involve modifying data structures e.g. structures and of stored on the memory in storage of the centralized gift registry system . In the descriptions that follow the various steps in the process flow diagrams may be implemented in any order and one or more of the steps in the process flow diagrams may be optional.

Centralized gift registry system then checks to see if a retailer s system has a retailer specific registry for the gift registrant . If a does have an existing registry centralized gift registry system uploads and merges the gift items from the retailer specific registry with the gift items if any associated with the gift registrant s membership account . This uploading and merging may be performed using the process of or process to be described below with respect to . If a retailer s system does not have an existing retailer specific registry centralized gift registry system submits a request e.g. via a retailer system s API to the retailer s system for creating the retailer specific registry for the gift registrant . If the centralized gift registry system determines e.g. by using a retailer system s API function call see that the retailer specific registry is successfully created then centralized gift registry system may subsequently merge the gift items from the retailer specific registry with the gift items if any associated with the centralized gift registry .

If the centralized gift registry system determines that the retailer specific registry has not been created then centralized gift registry system flags this retailer specific registry as pending creation and attempts periodically to automatically resubmit a request e.g. via a retailer system s API to the retailer s system for creating a retailer specific registry with a gift list for the gift registrant . The period of these requests may be any suitable period e.g. 15 seconds to 24 hours. These steps are repeated if there are more retailers with retailer specific registries that need to be associated with the centralized gift registry or created because there is no existing retailer specific registry . The process terminates if there are no more retailer specific registries that need to be associated with the centralized gift registry .

If the centralized gift registry system determines that the retailer s system is already associated with the centralized gift registry system then the centralized gift registry system determines if the gift items from the retailer specific registry have been merged into the gift registrant s gift list of the centralized gift registry system . If the gift items have not been merged centralized gift registry system merges these items into the gift registrant s gift list e.g. using the processes or of respectively . If the centralized gift registry system determines that the retailer s retailer specific registry is not already associated with the centralized gift registry system then the centralized gift registry system may request the respective retailer s system to create a retailer specific registry for the gift registrant as described below in .

If the gift items have been merged into the gift registrant s gift list or once they have been merged into the gift list via step the CPU of centralized gift registry system submits a request to add the gift item s to the retailer specific registry . This request may be made using an API function call to a retailer specific registry system as described above with respect to . If the gift item is successfully added to the retailer specific registry or if at step the centralized gift registry system determines that the retailer specific registry is not associated with the centralized gift registry the information on the gift item is stored in the data structures e.g. structures and of of centralized gift registry system . If the gift item is not successfully added to the retailer specific registry the gift item is flagged as pending and CPU of centralized gift registry system periodically submits a request to add the gift item s to the retailer specific registry . The period of these requests may be any suitable period e.g. 15 seconds to 24 hours.

CPU of centralized gift registry system then determines if the updates to the gift item have been made successfully . If the updates have not been made successfully or if the gift item has been synchronized CPU of centralized gift registry system may periodically re request the retailer s system to update the gift item to reflect the modifications made by the user until it determines that the update has been successfully made. This determination may involve the use of the retailer s system and or centralized gift registry system API. For instance CPU of centralized gift registry system may request information on the gift item that was to be updated and if the information has not been updated CPU of centralized gift registry system will determine that the update has not been made successfully. Once the update has been successfully made the CPU of centralized gift registry system updates the gift list of the centralized gift registry to reflect the modifications . At step if the gift item is not on a gift list of the retailer specific registry CPU of centralized gift registry system updates the gift list of the centralized gift registry to reflect the modifications .

At step of process in if the gift item is not on a gift list of the retailer specific registry CPU of centralized gift registry system adds the gift items to the gift list of the centralized gift registry and submits a request to the retailer s system to create a retailer specific registry including the added gift item . Such a request may be made by generating and transmitting an API function call to the retailer s system as described above with respect to . CPU of centralized gift registry system then determines if the retailer specific registry has been created . Such a determination may be made by generating and transmitting an API function call to the retailer s system as described above with respect to . If the retailer specific registry has not been created CPU of centralized gift registry system may periodically re request the retailer s system to create the retailer specific registry until it determines that the retailer specific registry has been created . If CPU of centralized gift registry system determines that the retailer specific registry has been created then CPU of centralized gift registry system submits a request to the retailer s system to add the gift items to their retailer specific registry and process continues as described above.

Generally the methods described herein may be executed on a conventional data processing platform such as an IBM PC compatible computer running the Windows operating systems a SUN workstation running a UNIX operating system or another equivalent personal computer server or workstation. Alternatively the system may include a dedicated processing system that includes an API programming environment.

The methods described herein may also be realized as a software component operating on a conventional data processing system such as a UNIX workstation. In such an embodiment the methods may be implemented as a computer program written in any of several languages well known to those of ordinary skill in the art such as but not limited to C C FORTRAN Java MySQL Perl Python Apache or BASIC. The methods may also be executed on commonly available clusters of processors such as Western Scientific Linux clusters.

The methods disclosed herein may be performed in either hardware software or any combination thereof as those terms are currently known in the art. In particular the present method may be carried out by software firmware or microcode operating on a computer or computers of any type. Additionally software embodying the processes described herein may comprise computer instructions in any form e.g. source code object code interpreted code etc. stored in any computer readable medium e.g. ROM RAM magnetic media punched tape or card compact disc CD in any form DVD etc. . Accordingly the systems and methods described herein are not limited to any particular platform unless specifically stated otherwise in the present disclosure.

The systems and methods disclosed herein may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. The foregoing embodiments are therefore to be considered in all respects illustrative rather than limiting of the disclosure.

