---

title: Methods and devices for presenting email addresses
abstract: Methods and devices for data entry are disclosed. An example method includes executing an application on a mobile device, the application requiring a login to access at least a portion of data accessible via the application, accessing a store of email addresses associated with a user of the mobile device, the email addresses including at least a forwarding email address, and presenting the email addresses including the forwarding email address for selection as the login.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08887305&OS=08887305&RS=08887305
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 08887305
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20120622
---
This disclosure relates generally to mobile devices and more particularly to methods and devices for presenting email addresses for an application login.

In recent years mobile devices have been provided with the ability to install and run software produced and or distributed by parties other than the manufacturers of the respective mobile devices. Some such applications require a user to log in to access data via the application.

Example methods and devices for presenting email addresses including a forwarding email address such as for example reply to email address are disclosed herein.

A forwarding email address can be defined as an email address that is designated to receive emails that are delivered to another email address. Typically the forwarding email address automatically receives the emails that are delivered to the other email address. In some examples the emails that are forwarded to the forwarding email address are emails satisfying a particular condition or set of conditions e.g. designated by a user in his email account settings for the other email address . For example in a user s email account settings for a joesmith1 yahoo.com email account a user specifies that all emails delivered to joesmith1 yahoo.com are automatically forwarded to joesmith2 yahoo.com.

A reply to email address is a type of a forwarding email address. A reply to email address is defined as an email address that is designated to receive responses e.g. emails to emails that are sent from another email address. For example in a user s email account settings for a joesmith1 yahoo.com email account the user may specify that joesmith2 yahoo.com is the reply to email address. When the user sends an email using his joesmith1 yahoo.com email account any replies the user receives in response to the email are addressed to the joesmith2 yahoo.com email account.

In some examples a user of a mobile device has multiple email addresses at least one of which is a forwarding email address. The email addresses are provided to an information server that stores information for the user. Additionally the mobile device may execute software applications that require the user to log in or authenticate prior to accessing some or all of the data available via the application. Example methods and device disclosed herein present the email addresses including the forwarding email address for easy entry by the user. Thus example methods and devices disclosed herein provide an improved user experience by enabling rapid entry of a forwarding email address that the user may use to log in to one or more applications.

Disclosed example devices include a processor and a memory. The memory stores instructions which when executed by the processor cause the processor to execute an application on a mobile device the application requiring a login to access at least a portion of data accessible via the application access a store of email addresses associated with a user of the mobile device the email addresses including at least a forwarding email address and present the email addresses including the forwarding email address for selection as the login.

In some examples accessing the store includes accessing an application programming interface of an information server. In some examples accessing the store includes accessing a local cache in the mobile device. In some such examples the instructions further cause the processor to access an information server download the email addresses including the forwarding email address and store the email addresses including the forwarding email address in the local cache. In some example apparatus the instructions further cause the processor to update the email addresses in the local cache based on at least one of an email address being added to the information server or one of the email addresses being removed from the information server.

In some examples the forwarding email address is a reply to email address. In some example apparatus the application is a third party application. In some examples the instructions cause the processor to access the store of email addresses in response to executing the application. In some examples the instructions cause the processor to access the store of email addresses in response to displaying a login screen via the application.

Disclosed example methods include executing an application on a mobile device the application requiring a login to access at least a portion of data accessible via the application accessing a store of email addresses associated with a user of the mobile device the email addresses including at least a forwarding email address and presenting the email addresses including the forwarding email address for selection as the login.

In some example methods accessing the store includes accessing an application programming interface of an information server. In some examples accessing the store includes accessing a local cache in the mobile device. Some such example methods further include accessing an information server downloading the email addresses including the forwarding email address and storing the email addresses including the forwarding email address in the local cache. In some such examples the email addresses including the forwarding email address have been stored on the information server by the user. In some examples the email addresses including the forwarding email address have been stored on the information server by the user.

In some example methods the application is a third party application. In some examples the forwarding email address is a reply to email address. In some example methods accessing the store of email addresses is in response to executing the application. In some examples accessing the store of email addresses is in response to displaying a login screen via the application.

A block diagram of an example mobile device is shown in . The mobile device includes multiple components such as a processor that controls the overall operation of the mobile device . Communication functions including data and voice communications are performed through a communication subsystem . The example communication subsystem includes any number and or type s of network interface circuit s . Data received by the mobile device is decompressed and decrypted by a decoder . The communication subsystem receives messages from and sends messages to a wireless network . The wireless network may be any type of wireless network including but not limited to data wireless networks voice wireless networks and networks that support both voice and data communications. A power source such as one or more rechargeable batteries or a port to an external power supply powers the mobile device .

The processor interacts with other components such as Random Access Memory RAM memory a display with a touch sensitive overlay operably connected to an electronic controller that together include a touch sensitive display one or more actuator apparatus one or more force sensors a keypad an auxiliary input output I O subsystem a data port a speaker a microphone an accelerometer a gyroscope short range communications and other device subsystems . User interaction with a graphical user interface is performed through the touch sensitive display . The processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller . Information such as text characters symbols images icons and other items that may be displayed or rendered on a mobile device is displayed on the touch sensitive display via the processor . In some examples the display may include a primary display and a secondary display. The display of information between the primary and the secondary displays are coordinated to provide information to a user when the electronic device is in an open position or a closed position.

To identify a subscriber for network access the mobile device uses a Subscriber Identity Module or a Removable User Identity Module SIM RUIM card for communication with a network such as the wireless network . Alternatively user identification information may be programmed into memory .

The mobile device includes an operating system and or firmware and software programs or components that are executed by the processor to implement various applications and are typically stored in a persistent updatable store such as the memory . Additional applications or programs may be loaded onto the mobile device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communications subsystem or any other suitable subsystem .

A received signal such as a text message an e mail message or web page download is processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor . The processor processes the received signal for output to the display and or to the auxiliary I O subsystem . A subscriber may generate data items for example data entry forms e.g. notes which may be transmitted over the wireless network through the communication subsystem . For voice communications the overall operation of the mobile device is similar. The speaker outputs audible information converted from electrical signals and the microphone converts audible information into electrical signals for processing.

The example mobile device and the information server are connected via a network . The network of may be any communications network s and or subnetwork s including internets and or intranets such as the network of . The mobile device is assigned to belongs to and or is otherwise associated with a user . The user has e.g. owns is assigned etc. multiple email addresses. In the example system of the user has at least one forwarding email address.

The example mobile device includes an email application that the user may use to send emails with or without utilizing a forwarding email address. The mobile device is also capable of installing third party applications. Third party applications refer to applications that are developed sold and or distributed by a party other than the manufacturer of the mobile device or software on the mobile device . Some such third party applications require a login to access portions or all of the data accessible via the third party application.

In the example of the user provides the information server with multiple email addresses when the user initially sets up e.g. personalizes the mobile device and or subsequent to initially setting up the mobile device . For example the user may provide one or more email addresses when initially setting up the mobile device and provide one or more email addresses at a later time. In some other examples the user establishes and or modifies a user profile at the information server independently of the mobile device . The user may delete any of the email addresses from the information server . The information server stores the email addresses provided by the user at one or more times. The email addresses including a forwarding email address are then provided to the mobile device for use in sending and or receiving emails and or for presenting the emails for logging into other applications.

The user profile is imported and or synchronized to the mobile device . To enable access to the email addresses the example information server of exposes an application programming interface API . The mobile device requests the email addresses by accessing one or more functions in the API which causes the information server to retrieve and transmit the email addresses via another function of the API .

When the user logs into a third party application requiring a login the mobile device presents the email addresses to the user for use in logging in to the third party application. For example the mobile device may provide a menu and or an auto fill option for the email address. To present the email addresses the example mobile device accesses a store of email addresses including at least one forwarding email address . In some examples to access the store of email addresses the mobile device accesses the information server when the third party application requests a login which may be an email address.

In some other examples the mobile device accesses the information server periodically aperiodically in response to an event and or at particular times to retrieve and or update the email addresses. The mobile device then stores the email addresses in a local cache or storage on the mobile device . When the third party application requests a login which may be an email address the example mobile device then accesses the local storage or cache to present the email addresses including a forwarding email address.

The example application manager of initiates executes closes and otherwise manages applications. Some of the applications are third party applications and or require a user to log in e.g. enter a user name and or password authenticate etc. to access portions and or all of the data accessible via the respective applications. In some examples the login includes at least an email address.

The example login manager of stores email addresses associated with a user of the mobile device. In the example of the email addresses include at least a forwarding email address if the user of the mobile device e.g. the user of the mobile device has provided the forwarding email address to an information server e.g. the information server . The example login manager presents the email addresses including the forwarding email address for selection for the login when an application managed by the application manager displays a login screen. In some examples the login manager presents the email addresses including the forwarding email address as a drop down menu of email addresses at the login screen. The example login manager populates an email address field of the login screen when the user selects one of the email addresses.

In some other examples the login manager presents the login screen including a login field. When the user begins typing an email address at the login field the example login manager automatically fills in the remainder of the email address based on which of the typed email addresses is consistent with the typed information.

The example user information retriever retrieves the email addresses including the forwarding email address from an information server e.g. the information server of via the API and provides the email addresses including the forwarding email address to the login manager . In some examples the login manager requests the user information retriever to retrieve the email addresses when the user is to log in to the application. For example the login manager may request the user information retriever for email addresses associated with the user in response to the application manager executing the application. In some other examples the user information retriever retrieves the email addresses independently of the user logging into the application e.g. periodically aperiodically in response to an event at particular times etc. and stores the retrieved email addresses and or updates of the retrieved email addresses in a local cache . For example updates to the email addresses in the local cache may occur when an email address is added to the information server or one or more email addresses have been removed from the information server e.g. by the user . The example login manager then accesses the local cache when an application requires a login to retrieve and present the email addresses including the forwarding email address.

The email address field displays multiple example email address options or possible selections for the login. The email address options include a reply to email address and a forwarding email address . The example login manager of populates the example email address field with the options to enable the user to rapidly select the email address to be used for logging in to the application. In some other examples the login manager attempts to pattern match an email address being input into the email address field by the user and automatically filling in the remainder of an email address that matches all or part of the user entered information such as a forwarding email address. The password field of the example login screen is obscured by the list of email addresses presented by the login manager . When an email address is entered or selected the password field may then be displayed e.g. revealed to enable a user to select the password field and enter a password.

While an example manner of implementing the mobile device has been illustrated in one or more of the elements processes and or devices illustrated in may be combined divided re arranged omitted eliminated and or implemented in any other way. Further the example application manager the example login manager the example user information retriever and or more generally the example device of may be implemented by hardware software firmware and or any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Thus for example any of the example application manager the example login manager the example user information retriever and or more generally the example device of could be implemented by one or more circuit s logic circuit s programmable processor s application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s programmable logic device s PLD s and or field programmable logic device s FPLD s etc. When any of the appended apparatus or system claims are read to cover a purely software and or firmware implementation at least one of the example application manager the example login manager and or the example user information retriever are hereby expressly defined to include a tangible computer readable medium such as a memory DVD CD etc. storing the software and or firmware. Further still the example devices and may include one or more elements processes and or devices in addition to or instead of those illustrated in and or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated elements processes and devices.

Flowcharts representative of example machine readable instructions for implementing the mobile devices of and or are shown in . In these examples the machine readable instructions include program s for execution by a processor such as the processor shown in the example mobile device discussed above in connection with . The program may be embodied in software stored on a tangible computer readable medium such as the RAM and or the memory associated with the processor but the entire program and or parts thereof could alternatively be executed by a device other than the processor and or embodied in firmware or dedicated hardware. Further although the example program s are described with reference to the flowcharts illustrated in and or many other methods of implementing mobile devices may alternatively be used. For example the order of execution of the blocks may be changed and or some of the blocks described may be changed eliminated or combined.

As mentioned above the example processes of and or may be implemented using coded instructions e.g. computer readable instructions stored on a tangible computer readable medium such as a hard disk drive a flash memory a read only memory ROM a cache a RAM and or any other storage media in which information is stored for any duration e.g. for extended time periods permanently brief instances for temporarily buffering and or for caching of the information . As used herein the term tangible computer readable medium is expressly defined to include any type of computer readable storage and to exclude propagating signals. Additionally or alternatively the example processes of and or may be implemented using coded instructions e.g. computer readable instructions stored on a non transitory computer readable storage medium such as a hard disk drive a flash memory a read only memory a compact disk a digital versatile disk a cache a random access memory and or any other storage media in which information is stored for any duration e.g. for extended time periods permanently brief instances for temporarily buffering and or for caching of the information . As used herein the term non transitory computer readable storage medium is expressly defined to include any type of computer readable medium and to exclude propagating signals.

The example application manager executes the application e.g. handles user inputs outputs data processing data access etc. for the application block . The example login manager determines whether a login screen is present block . If a login screen is not present block control returns to block to continue executing the application. If a login screen is present block the example login manager accesses a store of email addresses that are associated with a user of the mobile device the email addresses including at least a forwarding email address block . For example the email addresses including the forwarding email address may have been previously stored on an information server e.g. the information server of by the user. The login manager causes a user information retriever e.g. the user information retriever to retrieve the email addresses e.g. by accessing an API of the information server and provide the email addresses to the login manager .

The example login manager presents the email addresses including the forwarding email address for selection as a login block . For example the login manager may present a list of email addresses and or perform pattern matching of the email addresses based on a user inputting a partial email address. A user may select one of the email addresses if presented in a list and or may confirm a pattern matched email address which is then populated in an email address field e.g. the field of . The example method may then end and or iterate for additional login s and or additional application s .

The example application manager executes an application on the mobile device block . In the example method the application requires a login that may be an email address. The example application manager executes the application e.g. handles user inputs outputs data processing data access etc. for the application block . The example login manager determines whether a login screen is present block . If a login screen is not present block control returns to block to continue executing the application.

If a login screen is present block the example login manager accesses a store of email addresses in a local cache of the mobile device block . In the example method the email addresses in the local cache have been populated and or updated by the user information retriever prior to the login screen being displayed. The email addresses may include a forwarding email address. The example login manager presents the email addresses including any forwarding email addresses for selection as a login email address on the login screen block . A user may select one of the email addresses if presented in a list and or may confirm a pattern matched email address which is then populated in an email address field e.g. the field of . The example method may then end and or iterate for additional login s and or additional application s .

Although certain methods apparatus and articles of manufacture have been described herein the scope of coverage of this patent is not limited thereto. To the contrary this patent covers all methods apparatus and articles of manufacture falling within the scope of the claims.

