---

title: Methods for the production of biliverdin
abstract: The present invention relates to compositions and methods for the production of biliverdin and methods of treatment and prevention. In particular, the invention concerns methods for producing biliverdin in yeast, especially , and other microorganisms.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08344019&OS=08344019&RS=08344019
owner: The United States of America, as represented by the Secretary, Department of Health and Human Services
number: 08344019
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120213
---
The instant application is a divisional of copending U.S. Ser. No. 12 364 054 filed Feb. 2 2009 which is a divisional of U.S. Ser. No. 11 078 552 filed Mar. 14 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 504 243 issued Mar. 17 2009 which claims priority to U.S. 60 554 369 filed Mar. 19 2004. The foregoing applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties. Any disclaimer that may have occurred during the prosecution of the above referenced applications is hereby expressly rescinded and reconsideration of all relevant art is respectfully requested.

This invention was funded by National Cancer Institute of the National Institutes of Health of the United States of America. The United States Government has certain rights to this invention.

The present invention relates to compositions and methods for the production of biliverdin. In particular the invention concerns methods for producing biliverdin in yeast especially and other microorganisms.

The sequence listing text file attached hereto created Feb. 10 2012 size 7 kilobytes and filed herewith as filename 6137NCI2611 SEQ20120210 ST25.txt is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Oxidative stress plays a critical role in the development of vascular disease Baranano et al. 2002 BILIVERDIN REDUCTASE A MAJOR PHYSIOLOGIC CYTOPROTECTANT Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 99 25 16093 16098 . Cells use multiple systems to protect against reactive oxygen species. The concentration of free heavy metals which can catalyze the formation of free radicals are tightly regulated by chelators such as ferritin and transferrin. Enzymes with antioxidant actions include catalase and superoxide dismutase which together convert superoxide radicals into water. Small molecules such as ascorbate and tocopherol act as direct antioxidants quenching the propagation of free radicals. Glutathione occurs at millimolar concentrations in most tissues and is generally regarded as the principal endogenous intracellular small molecule antioxidant cytoprotectant.

Bilirubin is a lipophilic linear tetrapyrrole that occurs uniquely in mammals and is abundant in plasma Beri et al. 1993 CHEMISTRY AND BIOLOGY OF HEME EFFECT OF METAL SALTS ORGANOMETALS AND METALLOPORPHYRINS ON HEME SYNTHESIS AND CATABOLISM WITH SPECIAL REFERENCE TO CLINICAL IMPLICATIONS AND INTERACTIONS WITH CYTOCHROME P 450 Drug Metab. Rev. 25 1 2 49 152 Yamamoto 1968 SYNTHESIS OF BILIRUBIN Naika Hokan. 15 11 391 398 Moore 1980 THE BIOCHEMISTRY OF THE PORPHYRINS Clin. Haematol. 9 2 227 252 . In humans approximately 250 400 mg of bilirubin are formed daily as the final metabolic product of heme catabolism as heme oxygenase HO cleaves the heme ring to form biliverdin Yoshida et al. 2000 MECHANISM OF HEME DEGRADATION BY HEME OXYGENASE J. Inorg. Biochem. 82 14 33 41 Montellano 2000 THE MECHANISM OF HEMP OXYGENASE Curr. Opin. Chem. Biol. 4 2 221 227 Galbraith 1999 HEME OXYGENASE WHO NEEDS IT Proc. Soc. Exp. Biol. Med. 222 3 299 305 which is then reduced by biliverdin reductase BVR to yield bilirubin Wilks 2002 HEME OXYGENASE EVOLUTION STRUCTURE AND MECHANISM Antioxid. Redox Signal. 4 4 603 614 Mantle 2002 HAEM DEGRADATION IN ANIMALS AND PLANTS Biochem. Soc. Trans. 30 4 630 633 Ogawa 2002 HEME METABOLISM IN STRESS RESPONSE Nippon Eiseigaku Zasshi 56 4 515 21 . Approximately 80 of serum bilirubin is derived from hemoglobin of senescent erythrocytes that have been phagocytized by macrophages in the reticuloendothelial system Shibahara et al. 2002 HEME DEGRADATION AND HUMAN DISEASE DIVERSITY IS THE SOUL OF LIFE Antioxid. Redox Signal. 4 4 593 602 the remainder derives from the catabolism of other haemoproteins and from the destruction of maturing red blood cells in the marrow.

Bilirubin has been found to possesses strong antioxidant potential against peroxyl and other reactive oxygen radicals McGeary et al. 2003 BIOLOGICAL PROPERTIES AND THERAPEUTIC POTENTIAL OF BILIRUBIN Mini Rev. Med. Chem. 3 3 253 256 Stocker et al. 1987 BILIRUBIN IS AN ANTIOXIDANT OF POSSIBLE PHYSIOLOGICAL IMPORTANCE Science 235 1043 1046 Hidalgo et al. 1990 CAN SERUM BILIRUBIN BE AN INDEX OF IN VIVO OXIDATIVE STRESS Med. Hypotheses 33 3 207 211 Stocker et al. 1987 ANTIOXIDANT ACTIVITY OF ALBUMIN BOUND BILIRUBIN Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 84 5918 5922 Machlin et al. 1987 FREE RADICAL TISSUE DAMAGE PROTECTIVE ROLE OF ANTIOXIDANT NUTRIENTS FASEB J. 1 6 441 445 Otterbein et al. 2003 HEME OXYGENASE 1 UNLEASHING THE PROTECTIVE PROPERTIES OF HEME Trends Immunol. 24 8 449 455 Wang et al. 2002 BILIRUBIN AMELIORATES BLEOMYCIN INDUCED PULMONARY FIBROSIS IN RATS Am. J. Respir Crit. Care Med. 165 3 406 411 .

Several epidemiological studies have found that bilirubin levels are inversely associated with coronary artery disease and mortality from myocardial infarction Scriver 1995 THE METABOLIC AND MOLECULAR BASES OF INHERITED DISEASE McGraw Hill New York Vitek et al. 2002 GILBERT SYNDROME AND ISCHEMIC HEART DISEASE A PROTECTIVE EFFECT OF ELEVATED BILIRUBIN LEVELS Atherosclerosis 160 449 456 Schwertner et al. 1994 ASSOCIATION OF LOW SERUM CONCENTRATION OF BILIRUBIN WITH INCREASED RISK OF CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE Clin. Chem. 40 18 23 Hopkins et al. 1996 HIGHER SERUM BILIRUBIN IS ASSOCIATED WITH DECREASED RISK FOR EARLY FAMILIAL CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE Arterioscler. Thromb. Vasc. Biol. 16 250 255 Djousse et al. 2001 TOTAL SERUM BILIRUBIN AND RISK OF CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE IN THE FRAMINGHAM OFFSPRING STUDY Am. J. Cardiol. 87 1196 200 Heyman et al. 1989 RETINOPATHY OF PREMATURITY AND BILIRUBIN N. Engl. J. Med. 320 256 Temme et al. 2001 SERUM BILIRUBIN AND 10 YEAR MORTALITY RISK IN A BELGIAN POPULATION Cancer Causes Control 12 887 894 .

The possibility that the administration of bilirubin might find utility in providing cytoprotection is however encumbered by the toxicity and insolubility of the molecule Hansen 2002 MECHANISMS OF BILIRUBIN TOXICITY CLINICAL IMPLICATIONS Clin. Perinatol. 29 4 765 778 Wennberg 1991 CELLULAR BASIS OF BILIRUBIN TOXICITY NY State J. Med. 91 11 493 496 Bratlid 1991 BILIRUBIN TOXICITY PATHOPHYSIOLOGY AND ASSESSMENT OF RISK FACTORS NY State J. Med. 91 11 489 492 . Excessive elevations of bilirubin lead to substantial deposits in the brain with the resultant kernicterus causing major brain damage Baranano et al. 2002 BILIVERDIN REDUCTASE A MAJOR PHYSIOLOGIC CYTOPROTECTANT Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 99 25 16093 16098 Orth 1975 Virchows Arch. Pathol. Anat. 63 447 462 .

In contrast to bilirubin biliverdin is soluble. It can be produced by incubating bilirubin in the presence of a bilirubin oxidase E.C.1.3.3.5 . A number of enzymes with bilirubin oxidase activity from various plant sources are known See U.S. Pat. No. 5 624 811 U.S. Pat. No. 4 985 360 U.S. Pat. No. 4 770 997 EP 0 140 004 EP 0 247 846 EP 0 005 637 EP 0 320 095 and DE 32 39 236 .

Biliverdin has been proposed to be potentially useful as a cytoprotective therapeutic agent Baranano et al. 2002 BILIVERDIN REDUCTASE A MAJOR PHYSIOLOGIC CYTOPROTECTANT Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 99 25 16093 16098 Colpaert et al. 2002 INVESTIGATION OF THE POTENTIAL MODULATORY EFFECT OF BILIVERDIN CARBON MONOXIDE AND BILIRUBIN ON NITRERGIC NEUROTRANSMISSION IN THE PIG GASTRIC FUNDUS Eur. J. Pharmacol. 457 2 3 177 86 Nakagami et al. 1992 ANTIVIRAL ACTIVITY OF A BILE PIGMENT BILIVERDIN AGAINST HUMAN HERPESVIRUS 6 HHV 6 IN VITRO Microbiol. Immunol. 36 4 381 390 Katori et al. 2002 A NOVEL STRATEGY AGAINST ISCHEMIA AND REPERFUSION INJURY CYTOPROTECTION WITH HEME OXYGENASE SYSTEM Transpl. Immunol. 9 2 4 227 233 Ryter et al. 2000 THE HEME SYNTHESIS AND DEGRADATION PATHWAYS ROLE IN OXIDANT SENSITIVITY. HEME OXYGENASE HAS BOTH PRO AND ANTIOXIDANT PROPERTIES Free Radic. Biol. Med. 28 2 289 309 US 2003 0162826 .

In particular biliverdin has been proposed to be useful to treat vasoconstriction US 2003 0027124 coronary artery disease Vitek et al. 2002 GILBERT SYNDROME AND ISCHEMIC HEART DISEASE A PROTECTIVE EFFECT OF ELEVATED BILIRUBIN LEVELS Atherosclerosis 160 449 456 Schwertner et al. 1994 ASSOCIATION OF LOW SERUM CONCENTRATION OF BILIRUBIN WITH INCREASED RISK OF CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE Clin. Chem. 40 18 23 Hopkins et al. 1996 HIGHER SERUM BILIRUBIN IS ASSOCIATED WITH DECREASED RISK FOR EARLY FAMILIAL CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE Arterioscler. Thromb. Vase. Biol. 16 250 255 Djousse et al. 2001 TOTAL SERUM BILIRUBIN AND RISK OF CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE IN THE FRAMINGHAM OFFSPRING STUDY Am. J. Cardiol. 87 1196 200 Heyman et al. 1989 RETINOPATHY OF PREMATURITY AND BILIRUBIN N. Engl. J. Med. 320 256 Temme et al. SERUM BILIRUBIN AND 10 YEAR MORTALITY RISK IN A BELGIAN POPULATION 2001 Cancer Causes Control 12 887 894 and ischemia reperfusion injury Fondevila 2003 BILIVERDIN PROTECTS RAT LIVERS FROM ISCHEMIA REPERFUSION INJURY Transplant Proc. 35 5 1798 1799 . Biliverdin has been found to block acetaminophen induced injury Chiu et al. 2002 DIFFERENTIAL INDUCTION OF HEME OXYGENASE 1 IN MACROPHAGES AND HEPATOCYTES DURING ACETAMINOPHEN INDUCED HEPATOTOXICITY IN THE RAT EFFECTS OF HEMIN AND BILIVERDIN Toxicol. Appl. Pharmacol. 181 2 106 115 and liver graft injury Kato et al. 2003 BILIRUBIN RINSE A SIMPLE PROTECTANT AGAINST THE RAT LIVER GRAFT INJURY MIMICKING HEME OXYGENASE 1 PRECONDITIONING Hepatology 38 364 373 .

Despite improved methods of producing biliverdin a need continues to exist for efficient and inexpensive methods for producing biliverdin and in particular methods capable of producing a single biliverdin isomer. The present invention is directed to such needs.

The present invention relates to compositions and methods for the production of biliverdin. In particular the invention concerns methods for producing biliverdin in yeast especially and other microorganisms.

In one aspect the invention relates to a method for producing biliverdin wherein said method comprises the steps of A culturing a microorganism in the presence of a heme compound wherein said microorganism possesses a heme oxygenase activity sufficient to convert heme into biliverdin and B recovering the produced biliverdin.

In another aspect the invention relates to a biliverdin composition produced by the process of A culturing a microorganism in the presence of a heme compound wherein said microorganism possesses a heme oxygenase activity sufficient to convert heme into biliverdin and B recovering the produced biliverdin.

In another aspect the invention relates to a pharmaceutical composition comprising an amount of biliverdin sufficient to treat a disease or condition in a human or non human mammal or in tissue therefrom wherein said disease or condition is selected from the group consisting of cancer cardiovascular disease inflammation and Alzheimer s disease and wherein said biliverdin is produced by the process of A culturing a microorganism in the presence of a heme compound wherein said microorganism possesses a heme oxygenase activity sufficient to convert heme into biliverdin and B recovering the produced biliverdin.

In another aspect the invention relates to a method of treating a human or non human mammal for a disease or condition selected from the group consisting of cancer cardiovascular disease inflammation and Alzheimer s disease wherein said method comprises administering to said human or non human mammal a pharmaceutical composition comprising an amount of biliverdin sufficient to treat said disease or condition wherein said biliverdin is produced by the process of A culturing a microorganism in the presence of a heme compound wherein said microorganism possesses a heme oxygenase activity sufficient to convert heme into biliverdin and B recovering the produced biliverdin.

The present invention derives in part from the recognition that bilirubin is a potentially important cytoprotectant for organ transplant coronary artery disease and cancer treatment. The invention recognizes that owing to the toxicity and side effects inherent in administering bilirubin the bilirubin precursor biliverdin is a preferred therapeutic agent for administration to humans and non human mammals especially bovine equine porcine ovine canine feline and simian animals in the treatment of organ rejection coronary artery disease and cancer.

As indicated above heme metabolism typically involves the conversion of heme to biliverdin in a reaction catalyzed by heme oxygenase. The produced biliverdin is then converted to bilirubin through the action of biliverdin reductase . Current methods to produce biliverdin require relatively scarce starting materials or require the use of biliverdin oxidase to convert bilirubin back into biliverdin see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 624 811 . Some current methods produce a mixture of isomers only one of which is active.

Mammalian heme oxygenases are essential for normal home protein turnover in the body and are directly responsible for recycling of Hb iron from normal turnover of senescent red cells or release because of trauma Elbirt et al 1999 HEME OXYGENASE RECENT ADVANCES IN UNDERSTANDING ITS REGULATION AND ROLE Proc. Assoc. Am. Physicians 111 438 447 . Heme oxygenase catalyzes the oxidative cleavage of the cc meso edge of heme. The reaction utilizes NADPH reducing equivalents and a reductase to yield the open chain tetrapyrrole biliverdin CO and iron Abraham et al. 1988 THE PHYSIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE OF HEMP OXYGENASE Int. J. Biochem. 20 543 558 Maines 1988 HEME OXYGENASE FUNCTION MULTIPLICITY REGULATORY MECHANISMS AND CLINICAL APPLICATIONS FASEB J. 2 2557 2568 Schacter 1988 HEME CATABOLISM BY HEME OXYGENASE PHYSIOLOGY REGULATION AND MECHANISM OF ACTION Semin. Hematol. 25 349 369 . Both CO and biliverdin have cytoprotective activities Durante 2003 HEMP OXYGENASE 1 IN GROWTH CONTROL AND ITS CLINICAL APPLICATION TO VASCULAR DISEASE J. Cell. Physiol. 195 373 382 Otterbein 2003 HEME OXYGENASE 1 UNLEASHING THE PROTECTIVE PROPERTIES OF HEME Trends. Immunol. 24 449 455 .

Heme oxygenases have also been identified in plants and several bacteria including HmuO Schmitt 1997 UTILIZATION OF HOST IRON SOURCES BY CORYNEBACTERIUM DIPHTHERIAE IDENTIFICATION OF A GENE WHOSE PRODUCT IS HOMOLOGOUS TO EUKARYOTIC HEME OXYGENASES AND IS REQUIRED FOR ACQUISITION OF IRON FROM HEME AND HEMOGLOBIN J. Bacteriol. 179 838 845 and HemO Zhu W. et al. 2000 USE OF HEME COMPOUNDS AS IRON SOURCES BY PATHOGENIC NEISSERIAE REQUIRES THE PRODUCT OF THE HEMO GENE J. Bacteriol. 182 439 447 . Null mutants of bacterial heme oxygenase Schmitt 1997 UTILIZATION OF HOST IRON SOURCES BY CORYNEBACTERIUM DIPHTHERIAE IDENTIFICATION OF A GENE WHOSE PRODUCT IS HOMOLOGOUS TO EUKARYOTIC HEME OXYGENASES AND IS REQUIRED FOR ACQUISITION OF IRON FROM HEMP AND HEMOGLOBIN J. Bacteriol. 179 838 845 Zhu et al. 2000 USE OF HEME COMPOUNDS AS IRON SOURCES BY PATHOGENIC NEISSERIAE REQUIRES THE PRODUCT OF THE HEMO GENE J. Bacteriol. 182 439 447 as well as the CaHMX1 of Santos et al. 2003 HAEMIN UPTAKE AND USE AS AN IRON SOURCE BY ROLE OF CAHMX1 ENCODED HAEM OXYGENASE Microbiology 149 579 588 have shown that a major role for microbial heme oxygenase is in the release of nutritional iron from heme and heme protein complexes. also expresses a protein containing the heme oxygenase protein signature Reggiori et al 2001 SORTING OF PROTEINS INTO MULTIVESICULAR BODIES UBIQUITIN DEPENDENT AND INDEPENDENT TARGETING EMBO J. 20 5176 5186 Protchenko et al. 2003 REGULATION OF INTRACELLULAR HEME LEVELS BY HMX1 A HOMOLOGUE OF HEME OXYGENASE IN J. Biol. Chem. 278 36582 36587 but direct enzymatic activity could not be demonstrated Auclair et al 2003 CLONING AND EXPRESSION OF A HEME BINDING PROTEIN FROM THE GENOME OF Protein Expression Purif. 28 340 349 . However HMX1 is transcribed under conditions of iron deprivation and its deletion leads to defects in iron accumulation and an increase in the intracellular heme pool Protchenko et al. 2003 REGULATION OF INTRACELLULAR HEME LEVELS BY HMX1 A HOMOLOGUE OF HEME OXYGENASE IN J. Biol. Chem. 278 36582 36587 .

The invention derives in part from the recognition that microorganisms that lack a biliverdin reductase and thus naturally terminate their heme catabolism with the production of biliverdin are preferred hosts for the production of biliverdin.

The present invention thus provides an efficient method to produce the active isomer of biliverdin using the abundant starting material heme or heme containing proteins such as hemoglobin by fermentation using such biliverdin reductatase deficient microorganisms. As used herein a biliverdin reductatase deficient microorganism is a microorganism including a mammalian cell non mammalian eukaryotic cell especially yeast and fungal cells and a bacterial cell that lacks or substantially lacks a biliverdin reductase activity such that the accumulated end product of heme metabolism in such microorganism is biliverdin.

In one embodiment such biliverdin reductatase deficient microorganisms will be microorganisms that have been mutated in either the bilirubin reductase gene or in one or more of its regulatory element s that diminishes the level or rate of gene expression of the endogenous biliverdin reductase or which results in an endogenous biliverdin reductase having lower specific activity. As used herein a diminished activity is one that is at least 50 less and more preferably 200 less still more preferably 500 less than that exhibited prior to such diminution.

Such mutations can be in either the structural gene that encodes biliverdin reductase activity in genes that encode inducers or repressors of such gene or in regulatory sequences that control the extent or occurrence of biliverdin reductase expression. Methods for mutagenizing eukaryotic cells that can be adapted to produce such biliverdin reductatase deficient microorganisms are disclosed by Berman et al. 2002 A MOLECULAR REVOLUTION BUILT ON LESSONS FROM BUDDING YEAST Nat. Rev. Genet. 3 12 918 930 Datta et al. 1989 CURRENT TRENDS IN RESEARCH Adv. Microb. Physiol. 30 53 88 Kumar et al. 2001 EMERGING TECHNOLOGIES IN YEAST GENOMICS Nat. Rev. Genet. 2 4 302 12 Vidan et al. 2001 LARGE SCALE MUTAGENESIS YEAST GENETICS IN THE GENOME ERA Curr. Opin. Biotechnol. 12 1 28 34 Spencer et al. 1996 MUTAGENESIS IN YEAST Methods Mol. Biol. 53 17 38 Theiss et al. 2002 NEW MOLECULAR METHODS TO STUDY GENE FUNCTIONS IN INFECTIONS Mycoses 45 9 10 345 350 Venkatesan et al. 2003 SELECTION OF NOVEL EUKARYOTIC DNA POLYMERASES BY MUTAGENESIS AND GENETIC COMPLEMENTATION OF YEAST Methods Mol. Biol. 230 19 26 Joshi 2002 YEAST KNOCKOUT AND RESCUE SYSTEM FOR IDENTIFICATION OF EIF4E FAMILY MEMBERS POSSESSING EIF4E ACTIVITY Biotechniques 33 2 392 393 395 396 398 passim Ross Macdonald 2000 FUNCTIONAL ANALYSIS OF THE YEAST GENOME Funct. Integr. Genomics 1 2 99 113 Nadin Davis et al. 1998 SITE DIRECTED MUTAGENESIS OF LARGE PLASMIDS Biotechniques 25 6 1014 1019 Shuman et al. 2003 THE ART AND DESIGN OF GENETIC SCREENS Nat. Rev. Genet. 4 6 419 431 Braman 2001 IN VITRO MUTAGENESIS PROTOCOLS Methods in Molecular Biology Vol. 182 Humana Press NY Moore et al. 1987 Banbury Reports 28 Mammalian Cell Mutagenesis Cold Spring Harbor Press Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. and the like.

In a preferred embodiment such biliverdin reductatase deficient microorganisms will be microorganisms that naturally lack a biliverdin reductatase activity. The yeast is such a microorganism. In accordance with the methods of the present invention the use of to produce biliverdin is particularly preferred.

The present invention discloses that hemoglobin Hb is one such host signal based in part upon the observation that Hb is a specific inducer of a high affinity fibronectin receptor Pendrak et al. 2000 STRUCTURAL REQUIREMENTS FOR HEMOGLOBIN TO INDUCE FIBRONECTIN RECEPTOR EXPRESSION IN Biochemistry 39 16110 16118 Yan et al. 1996 SPECIFIC INDUCTION OF FIBRONECTIN BINDING ACTIVITY BY HEMOGLOBIN IN GROWN IN DEFEND MEDIA Infect. Immun. 64 2930 2935 . This induction was specific for Hb in that other host proteins or ferroproteins were inactive. Intact Hb was required for this activity because globin or hemin did not induce the fibronectin receptor Pendrak et al. 2000 STRUCTURAL REQUIREMENTS FOR HEMOGLOBIN TO INDUCE FIBRONECTIN RECEPTOR EXPRESSION IN Biochemistry 39 16110 16118 . However substitution of cobalt protoporphyrin IX CoPPIX for the heme in globin restored activity but coordination of CO CN and O2 as heme axial ligands did not affect the activity of Hb Pendrak et al. 2000 STRUCTURAL REQUIREMENTS FOR HEMOGLOBIN TO INDUCE FIBRONECTIN RECEPTOR EXPRESSION IN Biochemistry 39 16110 16118 . Hb bound saturably to the surface of cells which could be quantitatively inhibited by the Hb binding protein haptoglobin Pendrak et al. 2000 STRUCTURAL REQUIREMENTS FOR HEMOGLOBIN TO INDUCE FIBRONECTIN RECEPTOR EXPRESSION IN Biochemistry 39 16110 16118 . Signaling through the Hb receptor was independent of cellular iron status because the fibronectin receptor was induced under conditions of iron sufficiency and preceded any detectable uptake of radioactive iron from Hb Pendrak et al. 2000 STRUCTURAL REQUIREMENTS FOR HEMOGLOBIN TO INDUCE FIBRONECTIN RECEPTOR EXPRESSION IN Biochemistry 39 16110 16118 . Together these data indicate that although heme iron can be utilized by the fungus after prolonged culture Santos et al. 2003 HEAMIN UPTAKE AND USE AS AN IRON SOURCE BY ROLE OF CAHMX1 ENCODED HAEM OXYGENASE Microbiology 149 579 588 Hb signaling through the cell surface Hb receptor is rapid and independent of iron acquisition from the protein.

Because sensing of Hb may help the cells to recognize specific host tissue compartments the gene regulation by HA was investigated to gain insight into the fungal cellular functions that depend upon this signaling pathway. A differential display was employed to identify genes specifically regulated by Hb but not by inorganic iron. This analysis identified a heme oxygenase gene CaHMX1 that was shown recently to be regulated by iron and necessary for the organism to survive with heme as the sole iron source Santos et al. 2003 HAEMIN UPTAKE AND USE AS AN IRON SOURCE BY ROLE OF CAHMX1 ENCODED HAEM OXYGENASE Microbiology 149 579 588 .

The present invention demonstrates the transcriptional regulation of CaHMX1 by mammalian Hb and shows that this activation is iron independent. CaHMX1 activation occurs rapidly following exposure to Hb and is additive with activation by iron deficiency. The present invention additionally shows that the CaHMX1 gene encodes a functional heme oxygenase enzyme and that the product of the reaction is biliverdin. In accordance with the methods of the present invention biliverdin can therefore be readily produced by culturing cells that possess the heme oxygenase gene CaHMX1 gene in the presence of heme.

The invention also relates to the use of cells including mammalian cells yeast and other microorganisms that possess an enhanced heme oxygenase activity and to the use of such microorganisms in the production of biliverdin. As used herein an enhanced activity is one that is at least 50 greater and more preferably 200 greater still more preferably 500 greater than that exhibited prior to such enhancement. In accordance with such embodiments the employed cells will possess one or more modifications that enhances either the specific activity of the heme oxygenase gene or affects one or more of its regulatory element s so as to enhance the level or rate of gene expression of the endogenous heme oxygenase activity.

In one embodiment such enhanced microorganisms can be produced using the above mentioned methods of cellular mutagenesis. In an alternate embodiment suitable expression vectors can be used to clone and overexpress either an exogenous or heterologous heme oxygenase gene in a microorganism especially a biliverdin reductase deficient microorganism. Examples of suitable vector systems and methods for employing them are known Gao et al. 2002 ADVANCES IN EUKARYOTIC EXPRESSION SYSTEMS Zhonghua Nan Ke Xue 8 4 292 294 298 Brown et al. 2000 ARTIFICIAL CHROMOSOMES IDEAL VECTORS Trends Biotechnol. 8 5 218 23 Giga Hama et al. 1999 EXPRESSION SYSTEM FOR FOREIGN GENES USING THE FISSION YEAST Biotechnol. Appl. Biochem. 30 3 235 244 Kwon Chung et al. 1998 FATE OF TRANSFORMING DNA IN PATHOGENIC FUNGI Med. Mycol. 36 Supp. 1 38 44 Bai et al. 1996 GENE IDENTIFICATION USING THE YEAST TWO HYBRID SYSTEM Methods Enzymol. 273 331 347 Pompon et al. 1995 GENETICALLY ENGINEERED YEAST CELLS AND THEIR APPLICATIONS Toxicol. Lett. 82 83 815 822 Hensing et al. 1995 PHYSIOLOGICAL AND TECHNOLOGICAL ASPECTS OF LARGE SCALE HETEROLOGOUS PROTEIN PRODUCTION WITH YEASTS Antonie Van Leeuwenhoek 67 3 261 79 Hinnen et al. 1995 GENE EXPRESSION IN RECOMBINANT YEAST Bioprocess Technol. 22 121 193 Jakobovits 1994 YAC VECTORS. HUMANIZING THE MOUSE GENOME Curr. Biol. 4 8 761 763 Bussineau et al. 1994 GENETIC STABILITY OF PROTEIN EXPRESSION SYSTEMS IN YEAST Dev. Biol. Stand. 83 13 19 Gellissen et al. 1992 HETEROLOGOUS PROTEIN PRODUCTION IN YEAST Antonie Van Leeuwenhoek 2 1 2 79 93 Romanos et al. 1992 FOREIGN GENE EXPRESSION IN YEAST A REVIEW Yeast 8 6 423 488 Aruffo 1991 EXPRESSION CLONING SYSTEMS Curr. Opin. Biotechnol. 2 5 735 741 Presutti et al. 1991 EXPRESSION VECTORS AND GENE TRANSFER Ann. 1st Super Sanita 27 1 105 114 Russell et al. 1991 PRODUCTION OF RECOMBINANT PRODUCTS IN YEASTS A REVIEW Aust. J. Biotechnol. 5 1 48 55 Kurtz et al. 1988 THE MOLECULAR GENETICS OF Microbiol. Sci. 5 2 58 63 Kingsman et al. 1987 THE EXPRESSION OF HOMOLOGOUS AND HETEROLOGOUS GENES IN YEAST Antonie Van Leeuwenhoek 53 5 325 333 Ghosh et al. 2002 BACULOVIRUS AS MAMMALIAN CELL EXPRESSION VECTOR FOR GENE THERAPY AN EMERGING STRATEGY Mol. Ther. 6 1 5 11 Anton 1994 RETROVIRAL VECTORS Rev. Roum. Virol. 45 3 4 193 202 Presutti et al. 1991 EXPRESSION VECTORS AND GENE TRANSFER Ann. 1st Super Sanita 27 1 105 14 Miller 1989 INSECT BACULOVIRUSES POWERFUL GENE EXPRESSION VECTORS Bioessays 11 4 91 95 Bendig 1988 THE PRODUCTION OF FOREIGN PROTEINS IN MAMMALIAN CELLS Genet. Eng. 7 91 127 Hruby et al. 1987 USE OF VACCINIA VIRUS TO EXPRESS BIOPHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCTS Pharm. Res. 4 2 92 97 .

In one embodiment such enhanced microorganisms can be produced using microorganisms endogenous heme oxygenase gene has been inactivated see Examples below . Such a microorganism can be employed to either facilitate the cloning of functional heme oxygenase gene e.g. via phenotypic complementation or as strains that can be subjected to reverse mutagenesis to obtain progeny strains that have recovered heme oxygenase activity. Mutants exhibiting enhanced heme oxygenase activity can be recovered from such progeny.

The present invention relates to the use of biliverdin and its derivatives and therapeutically acceptable salts to provide cytoprotective therapy for a wide range of diseases and conditions including inflammation shock coronary artery disease cancer tissue disease tissue damage e.g. damage to harvested organs etc. Alzheimer s disease and other disorders and conditions. Indeed a vast amount of evidence implicates reactive oxygen species as mediators of inflammation shock ischemia reperfusion injury Cuzzocrea et al. 2001 ANTIOXIDANT THERAPY A NEW PHARMACOLOGICAL APPROACH IN SHOCK INFLAMMATION AND ISCHEMIA REPERFUSION INJURY Pharmacol. Rev. 53 1 135 159 Crapo 2003 OXIDATIVE STRESS AS AN INITIATOR OF CYTOKINE RELEASE AND CELL DAMAGE Eur. Respir. J. Suppl. 22 Suppl 44 4s 6s and sterility Sikka 2001 RELATIVE IMPACT OF OXIDATIVE STRESS ON MALE REPRODUCTIVE FUNCTION Curr. Med. Chem. 8 7 851 62 . Such reactive oxygen species are the targets of administered biliverdin compounds of the present invention and the compositions of the present invention can be used to treat all such diseases and conditions.

The present invention also relates to the use of biliverdin and its derivatives and therapeutically acceptable salts to provide cytoprotective therapy to individuals suffering from or at risk of suffering from inflammation. The term inflammation as used herein is meant to include reactions of the specific and non specific defense systems. As used herein the term specific defense system is intended to refer to that component of the immune system that reacts to the presence of specific antigens. Inflammation is said to result from a response of the specific defense system if the inflammation is caused by mediated by or associated with a reaction of the specific defense system. Examples of inflammation resulting from a response of the specific defense system include the response to antigens such as rubella virus autoimmune diseases delayed type hypersensitivity response mediated by T cells as seen for example in individuals who test positive in the Mantaux test etc. A non specific defense system reaction is a response mediated by leukocytes incapable of immunological memory. Such cells include granulocytes and macrophages. As used herein inflammation is said to result from a response of the non specific defense system if the inflammation is caused by mediated by or associated with a reaction of the non specific defense system. Examples of inflammation which result at least in part from a reaction of the non specific defense system include inflammation associated with conditions such as asthma adult respiratory distress syndrome ARDS or multiple organ injury syndromes secondary to septicemia or trauma reperfusion injury of myocardial or other tissues acute glomerulonephritis reactive arthritis dermatoses with acute inflammatory components acute purulent meningitis or other central nervous system inflammatory disorders thermal injury hemodialysis leukapheresis ulcerative colitis Crohn s disease necrotizing enterocolitis granulocyte transfusion associated syndromes and cytokine induced toxicity. The role of reactive oxygen in the etiology and pathology of inflammation has been described Agostini et al. 2002 OXIDATIVE STRESS AND APOPTOSIS IN IMMUNE DISEASES Int. J. Immunopathol. Pharmacol. 15 3 157 164 Andreadis et al. 2003 OXIDATIVE AND NITROSATIVE EVENTS IN ASTHMA Free Radic. Biol. Med. 35 3 213 25 Bowler et al. 2002 OXIDATIVE STRESS IN ALLERGIC RESPIRATORY DISEASES J. Allergy Clin. Immunol. 110 3 349 56 Erichsen et al. 2003 FERROUS FUMARATE DETERIORATED PLASMA ANTIOXIDANT STATUS IN PATIENTS WITH CROHN DISEASE Scand. J. Gastroenterol. 38 5 543 8 Hageman et al. 2003 SYSTEMIC POLY ADP RIBOSE POLYMERASE 1 ACTIVATION CHRONIC INFLAMMATION AND OXIDATIVE STRESS IN COPD PATIENTS Free Radic. Biol. Med. 35 2 140 148 Jialal et al. 2002 OXIDATIVE STRESS INFLAMMATION AND DIABETIC VASCULOPATHIES THE ROLE OF ALPHA TOCOPHEROL THERAPY Free Radic. Res. 2002 December 36 12 1331 1336 Kinnula et al. 2003 SUPEROXIDE DISMUTASES IN THE LUNG AND HUMAN LUNG DISEASES Am. J. Respir. Crit. Care Med. 167 12 1600 19 Kumagai et al. 2003 PATHOLOGICAL ROLES OF OXIDATIVE STRESS IN AUTOIMMUNE DISEASES Rinsho Byori. 51 2 126 32 Lang et al. 2002 OXIDANT ANTIOXIDANT BALANCE IN ACUTE LUNG INJURY Chest 122 6 Suppl. 3145 320S Langen et al. 2003 ROS ITLOCAL AND SYSTEMIC PATHOGENESIS OF CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE COPD Free Radic. Biol. Med. 35 3 226 35 Liu et al. 2003 BILIRUBIN AS A POTENT ANTIOXIDANT SUPPRESSES EXPERIMENTAL AUTOIMMUNE ENCEPHALOMYYELITIS IMPLICATIONS FOR THE ROLE OF OXIDATIVE STRESS IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS J. Neuroimmunol. 139 1 2 27 35 Maier et al. 2002 ROLE OF SUPEROXIDE DISMUTASES IN OXIDATIVE DAMAGE AND NEURODEGENERATIVE DISORDERS Neuroscientist. 8 4 323 34 Oh et al. 2001 OXIDATIVE DAMAGES ARE CRITICAL IN PATHOGENESIS OF REFLUX ESOPHAGITIS IMPLICATION OF ANTIOXIDANTS IN ITS TREATMENT Free Radic. Biol. Med. 30 8 905 15 Nadeem et al. 2003 INCREASED OXIDATIVE STRESS AND ALTERED LEVELS OF ANTIOXIDANTS IN ASTHMA J. Allergy Clin. Immunol. 111 1 72 8 Osanai 2003 IMPLICATION OF OXIDANT STRESS IN AIRWAY INFLAMMATION Nippon Rinsho. 61 12 2119 2125 Pleiner et al. 2003 INFLAMMATION INDUCED VASOCONSTRICTOR HYPOREACTIVITY IS CAUSED BY OXIDATIVE STRESS J. Am. Coll. Cardiol. 42 9 1656 62 Himmelfarb et al. 2003 OXIDATIVE STRESS IN UREMIA Curr. Opin. Nephrol. Hypertens. 12 6 593 8 Rahman 2002 OXIDATIVE STRESS AND GENE TRANSCRIPTION IN ASTHMA AND CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE ANTIOXIDANT THERAPEUTIC TARGETS Curr. Drug Targets Inflamm. Allergy 1 3 291 315 Rahman 2003 OXIDATIVE STRESS CHROMATIN REMODELING AND GENE TRANSCRIPTION IN INFLAMMATION AND CHRONIC LUNG DISEASES J. Biochem. Mol. Biol. 36 1 95 109 Selzner et al. 2003 PROTECTIVE STRATEGIES AGAINST ISCHEMIC INJURY OF THE LIVER Gastroenterology 125 3 917 36 .

The present invention also relates to the use of biliverdin and its derivatives and therapeutically acceptable salts to provide cytoprotective therapy to individuals suffering from or at risk of suffering from cardiovascular disease. The role of reactive oxygen in the etiology and pathology of cardiovascular disease has been described Alexander 2003 THE JEREMIAH METZGER LECTURE. PATHOGENESIS OF ATHEROSCLEROSIS REDOX AS A UNIFYING MECHANISM Trans. Am. Clin. Climatol. Assoc. 114 273 304 Chade et al. 2004 COMPARISON OF ACUTE AND CHRONIC ANTIOXIDANT INTERVENTIONS IN EXPERIMENTAL RENOVASCULAR DISEASE Am. J. Physiol. Renal Physiol. E published http ajprenal.physiology.org cgi reprint 00385.2003vl Farquhar et al. 2003 OXIDATIVE STRESS AND THE MYELODYSPLASTIC SYNDROMES Int. J. Hematol. 77 4 342 50 Kaysen et al. 2004 THE ROLE OF OXIDATIVE STRESS ALTERED LIPOPROTEIN STRUCTURE AND FUNCTION AND MICROINFLAMMATION ON CARDIOVASCULAR RISK IN PATIENTS WITH MINOR RENAL DYSFUNCTION J. Am. Soc. Nephrol. 15 3 538 548 Matkovics 2003 ANTIOXIDANTS AND VASCULAR DISEASES Orv. Hetil. 144 10 475 481 Nedeljkovic et al. 2003 MECHANISMS OF OXIDATIVE STRESS AND VASCULAR DYSFUNCTION Postgrad. Med. J. 79 930 195 199 quiz 198 200 Sanchez Moreno et al. 2004 DECREASED LEVELS OF PLASMA VITAMIN C AND INCREASED CONCENTRATIONS OF INFLAMMATORY AND OXIDATIVE STRESS MARKERS AFTER STROKE Stroke 35 1 163 168 E published 2003 Dec. 11 Tardif et al. 2002 PREVENTION OF RESTENOSIS WITH ANTIOXIDANTS MECHANISMS AND IMPLICATIONS Am. J. Cardiovasc. Drugs. 2 5 323 34 .

The present invention also relates to the use of biliverdin and its derivatives and therapeutically acceptable salts to provide cytoprotective therapy to individuals suffering from or at risk of suffering from cancer. The role of reactive oxygen in the etiology and pathology of cancer has been described Abushamaa et al. 2002 OXIDATIVE STRESS AND INFLAMMATION CONTRIBUTE TO LUNG TOXICITY AFTER A COMMON BREAST CANCER CHEMOTHERAPY REGIMEN Am. J. Physiol. Lung Cell Mol. Physiol. 283 2 L33645 Chung man et al. 2001 DIFFERENTIAL EXPRESSION OF MANGANESE SUPEROXIDE DISMUTASE AND CATALASE IN LUNG CANCER Cancer Res. 61 23 8578 8585 Senthil et al. 2004 EVIDENCE OF OXIDATIVE STRESS IN THE CIRCULATION OF OVARIAN CANCER PATIENTS Clin. Chim. Acta. 339 1 2 27 32 Shacter et al. 2000 OXIDATIVE STRESS INTERFERES WITH CANCER CHEMOTHERAPY INHIBITION OF LYMPHOMA CELL APOPTOSIS AND PHAGOCYTOSIS Blood 96 1 307 13 Wen et al. 2002 OXIDATIVE STRESS MEDIATED APOPTOSIS. THE ANTICANCER EFFECT OF THE SESQUITERPENE LACTONE PARTHENOLIDE J. Biol. Chem. 277 41 38954 38964 E published 2002 Jul. 31 .

The present invention also relates to the use of biliverdin and its derivatives and therapeutically acceptable salts to provide cytoprotective therapy to individuals suffering from or at risk of suffering from Alzheimer s disease. The role of reactive oxygen in the etiology and pathology of Alzheimer s Disease has been described Cummings 2001 TREATMENT OF ALZHEIMER S DISEASE Clin. Cornerstone 3 4 27 39 Grundman et al. 2002 ANTIOXIDANT STRATEGIES FOR ALZHEIMER S DISEASE Proc. Nutr. Soc. 61 2 191 202 Veurink et al. 2003 GENETICS LIFESTYLE AND THE ROLES OF AMYLOID BETA AND OXIDATIVE STRESS IN ALZHEIMER S DISEASE Ann. Hum. Biol. 30 6 639 667 .

The present invention also relates to the use of biliverdin and its derivatives and therapeutically acceptable salts to provide cytoprotective therapy to individuals suffering from or at risk of suffering from bacterial or viral disease. The role of reactive oxygen in the etiology and pathology of bacterial and viral disease has been described Christen et al. 2001 OXIDATIVE STRESS IN BRAIN DURING EXPERIMENTAL BACTERIAL MENINGITIS DIFFERENTIAL EFFECTS OF ALPHA PH ENYL TERT BUTYL NITRONE AND N ACETYLCYSTEINE TREATMENT Free Radic. Biol. Med. 31 6 754 762 Gil et al. 2003 CONTRIBUTION TO CHARACTERIZATION OF OXIDATIVE STRESS IN HIV AIDS PATIENTS Pharmacol. Res. 47 3 217 224 Loguercio et al. 2003 OXIDATIVE STRESS IN VIRAL AND ALCOHOLIC HEPATITIS Free Radic. Biol. Med. 34 1 1 10 .

One or more of the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention e.g. biliverdin a biliverdin derivative or a therapeutically acceptable of either may be used to prepare pharmaceutical compositions either alone or with other active agents for treating diseases and conditions associated with the presence of reactive oxygen species. The invention particularly relates to the use of biliverdin and its derivatives and therapeutically acceptable salts to prevent the onset of all such diseases and conditions in individuals or tissue at risk of such diseases and conditions as well as to the use of such molecules to attenuate the severity of all such diseases and conditions in individuals or tissue having such diseases and conditions. Thus as used herein the term treatment is intended to encompass the administration of such pharmaceutical compositions prophylactically so as to prevent the onset of a disease or condition in an individual tissue at risk of such infection and or therapeutically so as to attenuate the severity of an existing disease or condition.

The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may be in the form of an emulsion gel solution suspension etc. In addition the pharmaceutical composition can also contain pharmaceutically acceptable additives including for example diluents binders stabilizers and preservatives. Administration of pharmaceutically acceptable salts described herein is preferred. Such salts can be prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic bases including organic bases and inorganic bases. Salts derived from inorganic bases include sodium potassium lithium ammonium calcium magnesium and the like. Salts derived from pharmaceutically acceptable organic non toxic bases include salts of primary secondary and tertiary amines basic amino acids and the like. Preferred salts include but are not limited to sodium phosphate sodium acetate sodium bicarbonate sodium sulfate sodium pyruvate potassium phosphate potassium acetate potassium bicarbonate potassium sulfate potassium pyruvate disodium DL glycerol phosphate and disodium glucose 6 phosphate. Phosphate salts of sodium or potassium can be either the monobasic form e.g. NaHPO or the dibasic form e.g. NaHPO but a mixture of the two resulting in a desired pH is most preferred.

As used herein a salt is a substance produced from the reaction between acids and bases which comprises a metal cation and a nonmetal anion . Salt crystals may be hydrated i.e. contain one or more water molecules. Such hydrated salts when dissolved in an aqueous solution at a certain molar concentration are equivalent to the corresponding anhydrous salt dissolved in an aqueous solution at the same molar concentration. For the present invention salts which are readily soluble in an aqueous solution are preferred.

Further the pharmaceutical composition may be prepared in the form of admixture with one or more pharmaceutically acceptable excipients so long as such additional excipients do not interfere with the effectiveness of the peptides and the side effects and adverse reactions are not increased additively or synergistically. The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention can be associated with chemical moieties which may improve the composition s solubility absorption biological half life etc. The moieties may alternatively decrease the toxicity of the pharmaceutical compositions eliminate or attenuate any undesirable side effect of the pharmaceutical compositions etc. Moieties capable of mediating such effects are disclosed in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 19th Edition A. R. Gennaro ed. Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. 1995 . Procedures for coupling such moieties to a molecule are well known in the art.

As used herein a pharmaceutical excipient is a substance other than the pharmacologically active drug or prodrug which is included in the manufacturing process or are contained in a finished pharmaceutical product dosage form. Some for example comprise the product s delivery system. In the preferred embodiment pharmaceutical excipients transport the active drug to the site in the body where the drug is intended to exert its action. In more preferred embodiment excipients will keep the drug from being released too early in the assimilation process in places where it could damage tender tissue and create gastric irritation or stomach upset. In even more preferred embodiment excipients will help the drug to disintegrate into particles small enough to reach the blood stream more quickly and still others protect the product s stability so it will be at maximum effectiveness at time of use. In order to improve patient compliance these excipients can be used simply to make the pharmaceutical composition taste and look better International Pharmaceutical Excipients Council of the Americas http www.ipecamericas.org public faqs .

Suitable excipients include Magnesium Stearate Lactose Microcrystalline Cellulose Starch corn Silicon Dioxide Titanium Dioxide Stearic Acid Sodium Starch Glycolate Gelatin Talc Sucrose Calcium Stearate Povidone Pregelatinized Starch Hydroxy Propyl Methylcellulose OPA products coatings inks Croscarmellose Hydroxy Propyl Cellulose Ethylcellulose Calcium Phosphate dibasic Crospovidone Shellac and Glaze .

The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may be administered by any suitable means for example inhalation or interdermally intracavity e.g. oral vaginal rectal nasal peritoneal ventricular or intestinal intradermally intramuscularly intranasally intraocularly intraperitoneally intrarectally intratracheally intravenously orally subcutaneously transdermally or transmucosally i.e. across a mucous membrane in a dose effective for the production of neutralizing antibody and resulting in protection from infection or disease. The pharmaceutical compositions may be in the form of single dose preparations or in multi dose flasks. Reference is made to Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 19th Edition A. R. Gennaro ed. Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. 1995 .

Administration can be into one or more tissues including but not limited to muscle skin brain lung liver spleen bone marrow thymus heart e.g. myocardium endocardium and pericardium lymph nodes blood bone cartilage pancreas kidney gall bladder stomach intestine testis ovary uterus rectum nervous system eye gland or connective tissue. Furthermore in the methods of the present invention the pharmaceutical compositions may be administered to any internal cavity of a mammal including but not limited to the lungs the mouth the nasal cavity the stomach the peritoneal cavity the intestine any heart chamber veins arteries capillaries lymphatic cavities the uterine cavity the vaginal cavity the rectal cavity joint cavities ventricles in brain spinal canal in spinal cord and the ocular cavities. Administration may be by needle injection catheter infusion biolistic injectors particle accelerators e.g. pneumatic needleless injectors gelfoam sponge depots other commercially available depot materials e.g. hydrogels osmotic pumps e.g. Alza minipumps oral or suppositorial solid tablet or pill pharmaceutical formulations topical skin creams and decanting use of polynucleotide coated suture Qin et al. 1999 GENE SUTURE A NOVEL METHOD FOR INTRAMUSCULAR GENE TRANSFER AND ITS APPLICATION IN HYPERTENSION THERAPY Life Sciences 65 2193 2203 or topical applications during surgery. Any mode of administration can be used so long as the mode results prophylactic or therapeutic efficacy. Methods to detect such a response include serological methods e.g. western blotting staining tissue sections by immunohistochemical methods and measuring the activity of the polypeptide.

In one embodiment DNA compositions will be used to provide the preferred peptides of the present invention. Pharmaceutical DNA compositions and methods for their manufacture and delivery that may be used in accordance with the present invention are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 589 466 U.S. Pat. No. 5 620 896 U.S. Pat. No. 5 641 665 U.S. Pat. No. 5 703 055 U.S. Pat. No. 5 707 812 U.S. Pat. No. 5 846 946 U.S. Pat. No. 5 861 397 U.S. Pat. No. 5 891 718 U.S. Pat. No. 6 022 874 U.S. Pat. No. 6 147 055 U.S. Pat. No. 6 214 804 U.S. Pat. No. 6 228 844 U.S. Pat. No. 6 399 588 U.S. Pat. No. 6 413 942 U.S. Pat. No. 6 451 769 EP 1165140 EP 1006796 EP 0929536 WO 2000 057917 WO 2000 073263 WO 2001 009303 WO 2003 028632 WO 1994 029469 WO 1995 029703 and WO 1998 014439.

The compositions of the present invention can be lyophilized to produce pharmaceutical compositions in a dried form for ease in transportation and storage. The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may be stored in a sealed vial ampoule or the like. In the case where the pharmaceutical composition is in a dried form the composition is dissolved or suspended e.g. in sterilized distilled water before administration. An inert carrier such as saline or phosphate buffered saline or any such carrier in which the pharmaceutical compositions has suitable solubility may be used.

The pharmaceutical compositions can be solubilized in a buffer prior to administration. Suitable buffers include for example phosphate buffered saline PBS normal saline Tris buffer and sodium phosphate vehicle 100 150 mM preferred . Insoluble polynucleotides can be solubilized in a weak acid or base and then diluted to the desired volume with a neutral buffer such as PBS. The pH of the buffer is suitably adjusted and moreover a pharmaceutically acceptable additive can be used in the buffer to provide an appropriate osmolarity within the lipid vesicle. Preferred salt solutions and auxiliary agents are disclosed herein.

Compositions used in of the present invention can be formulated according to known methods. Suitable preparation methods are described for example in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 19th Edition A. R. Gennaro ed. Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. 1995 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Although the composition is preferably administered as an aqueous solution it can be formulated as an emulsion gel solution suspension lyophilized form or any other form known in the art. According to the present invention if the composition is formulated other than as an aqueous solution it will require resuspension in an aqueous solution prior to administration.

Such compositions may be formulated into any of the various compositions and may be used in any of the methods disclosed herein. For aqueous compositions used in vivo use of sterile pyrogen free water is preferred. Such formulations will contain an effective amount of such pharmaceutical composition together with a suitable salt and or pharmaceutically acceptable excipient as disclosed herein in order to prepare pharmaceutically acceptable compositions suitable for optimal administration to a vertebrate.

The effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition of the present invention depends on factors including the age and weight of the subject the delivery method and route the type of treatment desired and the type of pharmaceutical composition being administered. In general an effective amount of the pharmaceutical composition of the present invention will contain from about 1 ng to about 30 mg of such pharmaceutical composition more preferably from about 100 ng to about 10 mg of such pharmaceutical composition. Certain preferred formulations of the present invention may include about 1 ng of such pharmaceutical composition about 5 ng of such pharmaceutical composition about 10 ng of such pharmaceutical composition about 50 ng of such pharmaceutical composition about 100 ng of such pharmaceutical composition about 500 ng of such pharmaceutical composition about 1 g of such pharmaceutical compositions about 5 g of such pharmaceutical composition about 10 g of such pharmaceutical composition about 50 g of such pharmaceutical compositions about 100 g of such pharmaceutical composition about 150 g of such pharmaceutical composition about 200 g of such pharmaceutical compositions about 250 g of such pharmaceutical composition about 300 g of such pharmaceutical composition about 350 g of such pharmaceutical compositions about 400 g of such pharmaceutical composition about 450 g of such pharmaceutical composition about 500 g of such pharmaceutical composition about 550 g of such pharmaceutical composition about 600 g of such pharmaceutical composition about 650 g of such pharmaceutical composition about 700 g of such pharmaceutical composition about 750 g of such pharmaceutical composition about 800 g of such pharmaceutical composition about 850 g of such pharmaceutical composition about 900 g of such pharmaceutical composition about 950 g of such pharmaceutical composition about 1 mg of such pharmaceutical composition about 5 mg of such pharmaceutical composition about 10 mg of such pharmaceutical composition about 15 mg of such pharmaceutical composition about 20 mg of such pharmaceutical composition about 25 mg of such pharmaceutical composition or about 30 mg of such pharmaceutical composition.

Having now generally described the invention the same will be more readily understood through reference to the following examples which are provided by way of illustration and are not intended to be limiting of the present invention unless specified.

Cell culture is conducted in a defined medium yeast nitrogen base YNB with appropriate amino acid supplements Sherman 1991 GETTING STARTED WITH YEAST Methods Enzymol. 191 1 21 . Iron sufficient and deficient media are supplied with or without 1.2 M FeCl respectively Q Biogene Carlsbad Calif. . Cells are cultured at 30 C. by shaking at 250 rpm with appropriate additions as indicated. Bovine methemoglobin FAS ferrozine fetuin holotransferrin apotransferrin and casein are obtained from Sigma Chemical Corp. Preparation and isolation of human Hb CoPPIX globin and human apoglobin are obtained as described by Pendrak et al. 2000 STRUCTURAL REQUIREMENTS FOR HEMOGLOBIN TO INDUCE FIBRONECTIN RECEPTOR EXPRESSION IN Biochemistry 39 16110 16118. Hemin and biliverdin standards are obtained from Frontier Scientific Porphyrin Products Logan Utah . Biliverdin was quantified in acidic MeOH at 377 nm using 66.2 mMcm Saito et al. 1982 VERDOHEMOCHROME IX ALPHA PREPARATION AND OXIDOREDUCTIVE CLEAVAGE TO BILIVERDIN IX ALPHA Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 79 1393 1397 . Hemin and HR quantification are obtained as described by Pendrak et al. 2000 STRUCTURAL REQUIREMENTS FOR HEMOGLOBIN TO INDUCE FIBRONECTIN RECEPTOR EXPRESSION IN Biochemistry 39 16110 16118. strain YJB6284 Bensen et al. 2002 A FORKHEAD TRANSCRIPTION FACTOR IS IMPORTANT FOR TRUE HYPHAL AS WELL AS YEAST MORPHOGENESIS IN Eukaryot. Cell 1 787 798 is a prototrophic version of BWP17 and is designated herein as the parental strain. Both alleles of CaHAMX1 are sequentially disrupted using the method of Wilson et al. 1999 RAPID HYPOTHESIS TESTING WITH THROUGH GENE DISRUPTION WITH SHORT HOMOLOGY REGIONS J. Bacteriol. 181 1868 1874 in strain BWP17. Arg 4 and His 1 mutagenic cassettes are constructed using the following primer sets to direct recombination to the CaHMX1 coding region 

Reporter assays use cells that are grown at 30 C. in minimal YNB medium with ammonium sulfate and 2 glucose. 5 10cells were harvested cell extracts were obtained by glass bead lysis Srikantha et al. 1996 THE SEA PANSY LUCIFERASE SERVES AS A SENSITIVE BIOLUMINESCENT REPORTER FOR DIFFERENTIAL GENE EXPRESSION IN J. Bacteriol. 178 121 129 and luminescence is determined using coelenterazine as a substrate Promega . Luciferase activity is defined as the number of light units using 5 10cells assay point in 200 l of lysis buffer using a 5 l volume for light measurement. To assess regulation of the promoter by iron the ferrous iron chelator ferrozine is added to cell cultures in the presence of FAS to buffer iron concentrations as described Philpott et al. 1998 CELL CYCLE ARREST AND INHIBITION OF G1 CYCLIN TRANSLATION BY IRON IN AFT1 1YEAST EMBO J. 17 5026 5036 Chaney 1988 PLANTS CAN UTILIZE IRON FROM IRON N N DI 2 HYDROXYBENZOYLETHYLENEODIAMINE N N DIACETIC ACID A FERRIC CHELATE WITH 1 000 000 GREATER FORMATION CONSTANT THAN IRON EDDHA J. Plant Nutr. 11 1033 1050 . FAS added to 1 mM ferrozind at 10 100 and 400 M represents low optimal and high levels of iron respectively. The effect of proteins other than Hb on the induction of the CaHMX1 promoter are tested using Ki 29 cells cultured for 15 min in iron replete media containing each of the following at 1 mg ml Hb CoPPIX globin holotransferrin apotransferrin fetuin casein and apoglobin.

Total yeast RNA is prepared using the hot acid phenol method Kohrer et al. 1991 PREPARATION OF HIGH MOLECULAR WEIGHT RNA YEAST GENETICS AND MOLECULAR BIOLOGY Guthrie and Fink Eds. 194 398 405 Academic Press San Diego Calif. . Yeast transformations are carried out by the lithium acetate technique Gietz et al. 1995 STUDIES ON THE TRANSFORMATION OF INTACT YEAST CELLS BY THE LIAC SS DNA PEG PROCEDURE Yeast 11 355 360 . Northern and Southern analyses DNA manipulations and sequence analysis use standard methods Ausubel et al. 1988 CURRENT PROTOCOLS IN MOLECULAR BIOLOGY John Wiley Sons Inc. New York . Differentially expressed genes are identified by RNA arbitrarily primed PCR following the recommendations of the manufacturer Stratagene La Jolla Calif. using RNA from strain ATCC 44807 cells grown with or without 1 mg ml Hb. Briefly cells are inoculated into YNB broth with or without 62 M expressed as iron equivalents hemoglobin or ferrous sulfate and grown at 26 C. for 24 h. Under these growth conditions no germination is observed microscopic examination. For induction of the hyphal form of cells grown in YNB are resuspended into RPMI 1640 supplemented with 2 mM glutamine in the absence of hemoglobin and incubated 2 hours at 37 C. with shaking at 250 rpm. A 2 hour incubation converted nearly 100 of candidal cells to hyphae or pseudohyphae by microscopic examination. The first strand cDNA was synthesized using the arbitrary primers 

A total of 33 ESTs that exhibit increased expression in Hb cultures but not when supplemented with an equivalent molar concentration of iron are cloned and sequenced. Seven are ESTs from carboxypeptidase Y 13 are multiple hits of four genes and the remainder are from discrete ORFs. Differential expression of the genes induced by Hb is confirmed by Northern hybridization using DNA from each EST clone as a radiolabeled probe.

Coupled oxidation of human Hb to generate biliverdin and isomers follows the methods of O Carra et al. 1969 HAEM CATABOLISM AND COUPLED OXIDATION OF HAEMPROTEINS FEBS Lett. 5 295 298. Briefly 50 mg of human Hb is made to 5 mg ml in 0.1 M sodium phosphate buffer pH 7.0 and incubated with 20 mg of sodium ascorbate for 2 hours at 37 C. with vigorous agitation. The sample is extracted twice with equal volumes of anhydrous ethyl ether to remove unreacted heme. Biliverdin in the aqueous phase is extracted with CHCland concentrated by evaporation under a stream of nitrogen at room temperature. The blue green residue is dissolved in MeOH and made to 60 with aqueous 0.1 M ammonium acetate v v pH 5.2 in preparation for HPLC analysis. Coupled oxidation of heme in pyridine is used to generate all four biliverdin isomers and Sano et al. 1986 ON THE MECHANISM OF THE CHEMICAL AND ENZYMIC OXYGENATIONS OF ALPHA OXYPROTOHEMIN IX TO FE.BILIVERDIN IX ALPHA Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 83 531 535 . Hemin 15 mg dissolved in 50 pyridine is added to 5 volumes 0.1 M sodium phosphate buffer pH 7.0 with 10 mg of ascorbate and incubated for 16 h at 37 C. The mixture is then acidified with HCl and glacial acetic acid and the biliverdin isomers are extracted twice into CHCland concentrated by evaporation under nitrogen. The compounds are further purified on a C 18 Sep Pak column Millipore Bedford Mass. as described below.

Biliverdin is extracted from cell pellets by suspension in an equal volume of MeOH vortexing for 30 S and centrifuging for 10 min at 5000 g at room temperature. The supernatant of this extraction is made to 60 with aqueous 0.1 M ammonium acetate pH 5.2 and loaded onto a C 18 Sep Pak column that has been sequentially preconditioned with 5 ml of MeOH 5 ml of HO and 15 ml of Buffer A 60 0.1 M ammonium acetate pH 5.2 40 MeOH v v . The column is then washed with 5 ml of 0.1 M ammonium acetate pH 5.2 5 ml of Buffer A and the green blue material is eluted with 2 ml of 100 MeOH. An equal volume of CHClis added and the mixture is then evaporated under nitrogen. Cell supernatants are extracted by adding 0.6 volumes of concentrated ammonium acetate pH 5.2 and then making the mixture 40 in MeOH. Biliverdin is isolated on a C 18 Sep Pak as described above. Biliverdin and hemin are quantified using a C 18 Alltech absorbosphere column Deerfield III. 150 4.6 mm 5 m of octadecyl silica packing controlled by a Peak Net chromatography work station Dionex Sunnyvale Calif. . The mobile phase consists of Buffer A with a gradient to 100 MeOH from 2 to 18 min at a flow rate of 1 ml min. Absorbance is measured at 385 nm and peaks are analyzed using Peak Net software.

Genes specifically induced by Rb but not by equivalent molar concentrations of inorganic iron are identified using random arbitrarily primed PCR Panel A . RNA isolated from cells cultured for 24 h at 24 C. in the presence or absence of Hb identifies a total of 33 ESTs that exhibited increased expression in Hb cultures but not when supplemented with iron. One such EST Panel A arrow which was verified by Northern hybridization to be induced by Hb and not by iron or hyphal differentiation Panel B overlaps the 3 end of the CaHMX1 gene in the genomic data base Panel D .

CaHMX1 has been identified as an iron and hemin regulated gene that is essential for survival with hemin as the sole iron source Santos et al. 2003 HAEMIN UPTAKE AND USE AS AN IRON SOURCE BY ROLE OF CAHMX1 ENCODED HAEM OXYGENASE Microbiology 149 579 588 . CaHMX1 is therefore characterized by measuring its steady state mRNA in the presence and absence of Hb under iron sufficiency to verify the results obtained through RNA arbitrarily primed PCR screening. SC5314 cells Fonzi et al. 1993 ISOGENIC STRAIN CONSTRUCTION AND GENE MAPPING IN Genetics 134 717 728 in early stationary phase growth are transferred to Hb containing medium and samples are harvested for RNA isolation at the indicated times Panel C . An increased mRNA level is evident as early as 30 min after Hb addition and the level increased 10 15 fold at 3 h Panel C . These data indicate that accumulation of CaHMX1 mRNA is increased by hemoglobin under iron sufficiency.

Accumulation of CaHMX1 mRNA within 30 min following HB addition suggests transcriptional regulation Panel C . To measure active transcription during the early stages of Hb exposure a luciferase reporter gene driven by the CaHMX1 promoter is constructed. A 1.4 kb region upstream of the CaHMX1 predicted translational start site Panel D was cloned in the luciferase reporter plasmid pCRW3 Srikantha et al. 1996 THE SEA PANSY LUCIFERASE SERVES AS A SENSITIVE BIOLUMINESCENT REPORTER FOR DIFFERENTIAL GENE EXPRESSION IN J. Bacteriol. 178 121 129 . This region contains four HAP1 consensus sites Zhang et al. 1994 THE YEAST ACTIVATOR HAP1 A GAL4 FAMILY MEMBER BINDS DNA IN A DIRECTLY REPEATED ORIENTATION Genes Dev. 8 2110 2119 as well as a single predicted iron responsive element Yamaguchi Iwai et al. 1996 IRON REGULATED DNA BINDING BY THE AFT1 PROTEIN CONTROLS THE IRON REGULON IN YEAST EMBO J. 15 3377 3384 Panel B Fe RE . The plasmid is initially introduced into the strain Red 3 6 Srikantha et al. 1996 THE SEA PANSY LUCIFERASE SERVES AS A SENSITIVE BIOLUMINESCENT REPORTER FOR DIFFERENTIAL GENE EXPRESSION IN J. Bacteriol. 178 121 129 by recombination into the neutral Ade2 locus. However expression from this construct cannot be detected. For this reason the reporter plasmid is recombined into the genomic CaHMX1 to generate the knock in strain CAMP Ki 29 see Example 1 . In this strain the entire genomic region upstream of the CaHMX1 ATG can serve to supply promoter elements for the introduced luciferase Panel D . Similar knock ins have been used successfully in Srikantha et al. 1995 THE FREQUENCY OF INTEGRATIVE TRANSFORMATION AT PHASE SPECIFIC GENES OF CORRELATES WITH THEIR TRANSCRIPTIONAL STATE Mol. Gen. Genet. 246 342 352 .

Strain CAMP Ki 29 is first tested for responsiveness to Hb in iron sufficient medium. Within 2.5 min following the addition of Hb luciferase activity increased more than 10 fold over the non induced control and this level was sustained almost to the end of the test period Panel A . These data indicate that Rb binding to its cell surface receptor Pendrak et al. 2000 STRUCTURAL REQUIREMENTS FOR HEMOGLOBIN TO INDUCE FIBRONECTIN RECEPTOR EXPRESSION IN Biochemistry 39 16110 16118 induces a signal that rapidly increases transcription to the CaHMX1 promoter under iron replete conditions.

To ensure that this induction is specific for Rb several control proteins are tested for their ability to stimulate luciferase activity in strain Ki 29 Table 1 . The cobalt analog of Hb CoPPIX globin has equivalent activity to Hb but apoglobin is inactive. Therefore the iron in Hb is not essential for activity but the native conformation of globin induced by porphyrin binding is required. These results are consistent with the previous report that CoPPIX globin stimulated expression of a fibronectin receptor in to the same extent as Hb whereas globin was inactive Pendrak et al. 2000 STRUCTURAL REQUIREMENTS FOR HEMOGLOBIN TO INDUCE FIBRONECTIN RECEPTOR EXPRESSION IN Biochemistry 39 16110 16118 . None of the other proteins tested significantly induce luciferase activity above the control but the ferroprotein transferrin somewhat decreased the basal activity of the CaHMX1 promoter Table 1 . These proteins also failed to induce the expression of the fibronectin receptor in Yan et al. 1996 SPECIFIC INDUCTION OF FIBRONECTIN BINDING ACTIVITY BY HEMOGLOBIN IN GROWN IN DEFINED MEDIA Infect. Immun. 64 2930 29.35 . The data presented in Table 1 is obtained by culturing strain Ki 29 in iron replete medium at 30 C. for 15 min in the presence of 1 mg ml of the indicated proteins luciferase activities expressed as mean S.D. are from two separate experiments.

Although the iron in Hb is not required to induce CaHMX1 transcription steady state CaHMX1 mRNA has been reported to be increased by iron deficiency and by hemin at 5 hour post transfer to new medium Santos et al. 2003 HAEMIN UPTAKE AND USE AS AN IRON SOURCE BY ROLE OF CAHMX1 ENCODED HAEM OXYGENASE Microbiology 149 579 588 . For this reason promoter activity is tested over an extended time course using Hb under iron sufficient and deficient conditions. Hb rapidly increased promoter activity independent of the iron status of the medium Panel B circles . Neither iron deficiency nor hemin addition increased promoter activity at the early time points but both showed induction after a lag time of 3 h Panel B . Taken together Table 1 and indicate that the effects of Hb iron deficiency and hemin on CaHMX1 transcription are separable events.

CaHMX1 was initially identified as a Hb regulated gene by RNA arbitrarily primed PCR analysis using RNA isolated 24 h after the addition of Hb see Example 1 . To examine the iron dependence of the Hb response for CaHMX1 at later times these conditions are duplicated with the CAMP Ki 29 reporter strain . After cell culture for 24 h iron replete conditions maintained the promoter in an inactive state but the addition of Hb stimulated activity about 40 fold at this time Panel A . When ferrozine is added to generate iron deficiency a similar induction of promoter activity is seen Panel A . However ferrozine and Hb together produce an additive effect and result in transcriptional activity greater than either compound added alone Panel A . This synergistic activity further indicates that Hb and iron depletion are distinct signals that regulate the CaHMX1 promoter.

The presence of four HAP1 consensus sites Zhang et al. 1994 THE YEAST ACTIVATOR HAP1 A GAL4 FAMILY MEMBER BINDs DNA IN A DIRECTLY REPEATED ORIENTATION Genes Dev. 8 2110 2119 5 of CaHMX1 Panel D suggested that hemin could play a direct role in the regulation of this promoter. However hemin addition to CAMP Ki 29 cells increases activity only about 2 fold after 24 h in contrast to the high activity of the combination of Hb and ferrozine Panel B . Surprisingly however the inducing activity of Hb combined with ferrozine is suppressed by the addition of hemin and results in only a 2.5 fold increase in activity over the iron replete control Panel B . Therefore hemin is unlikely to be the mediator of CaHMX1 induction by Hb and may be a negative regulator of CaHMX1 under some conditions.

Acquisition of iron is clearly essential for cell survival Weinberg 1999 THE ROLE OF IRON IN PROTOZOAN AND FUNGAL INFECTIOUS DISEASES J. Eukaryot. Microbiol. 46 231 238 . The interplay of iron and Hb regulation at the CaHMX1 promoter suggests a role for this gene in cellular iron metabolism. The ortholog HMX1 plays a role in the mobilization of iron from internal heme stores indicating a direct connection of HMX1 to iron metabolism Protchenko et al. 2003 REGULATION OF INTRACELLULAR HEME LEVELS BY HMX1 A HOMOLOGUE OF HEME OXYGENASE IN J. Biol. Chem. 278 36582 36587 . To test whether cell growth depended upon CaHMX1 activity survival of parental and homozygous deletion strains are compared under various levels of iron sufficiency. The deletion mutant grows at an equivalent rate and produces a stationary cell density equivalent to those of the parental strain in iron replete medium . Growth of both strains is suppressed in the presence of ferrozine to generate iron deficiency. However titration of iron into the medium by the addition of FAS Protchenko et al. 2003 REGULATION OF INTRACELLULAR HEME LEVELS BY HMX1 A HOMOLOGUE OF HEME OXYGENASE IN J. Biol. Chem. 278 36582 36587 permits growth of the parental strain but not of the CaHMX1 deletion mutant under iron restriction . Addition of 100 M FAS approximates optimal physiological iron conditions Philpott et al. 2002 THE RESPONSE TO IRON DEPRIVATION IN EXPRESSION OF SIDEROPHORE BASED SYSTEMS OF IRON UPTAKE Biochem. Soc. Trans. 30 698 702 . Therefore a step in iron assimilation that becomes rate limiting only at low iron concentrations requires CaHmx1p.

The CaHmx1p coding region has 36 identity and 49 similarity to the hypothetical heme oxygenase in 1Hmx1 Protchenko et al. 2003 REGULATION OF INTRACELLULAR HEME LEVELS BY HMX1 A HOMOLOGUE OF HEME OXYGENASE IN J. Biol. Chem. 278 36582 36587 .

In the crystal structure of human heme oxygenase protein the a meso edge of heme is positioned near a hydrophobic wall comprising Met 34 Phe 37 and Phe 214 Schuller et al. 1999 CRYSTAL STRUCTURE OF HUMAN HEME OXYGENASE 1 Nat. Struct. Biol. 6 860 867 . All are represented in the sequence as substitutions to smaller hydrophobic residues filled circles although Met 34 in human isoform 2 possesses a Val substitution Schuller et al. 1999 CRYSTAL STRUCTURE OF HUMAN HEME OXYGENASE 1 Nat. Struct. Biol. 6 860 867 . Similar substitutions are found to occur in the functional HmuO protein from except for Phe 214 which is retained Schmitt 1997 UTILIZATION OF HOST IRON SOURCES BY IDENTIFICATION OF A GENE WHOSE PRODUCT IS HOMOLOGOUS TO EUKARYOTIC HEME OXYGENASES AND IS REQUIRED FOR ACQUISITION OF IRON FROM HEME AND HEMOGLOBIN J. Bacteriol. 179 838 845 . The 7 meso edge of the heme and the heme propionate residues interact with residues of the distal helix. Most all of the participating basic amino acids are represented in the sequence as conservative changes of K22R K179R and R183K arrows although a non conservative substitution occurs at K18N Gln in . Y137 is fully conserved arrow .

A highly polar region of the human heme oxygenase pocket involved in ligand discrimination Schuller et al. 1999 CRYSTAL STRUCTURE OF HUMAN HEME OXYGENASE 1 Nat. Struct. Biol. 6 860 867 have the following substitutions N210D identical in HmuO and Hmx1p R136M Len in Hmx1p D140L Leu in Hmx1p and the conservative substitutions Y58F and Y114F inverted open triangles . In all of the regions that define the heme oxygenase signature at the level of the primary sequence 58 of the residues are identical to the human isoform 1 and this increases to 79 when conservative substitutions are included. The 21 of the residues not conserved are primarily located in the polar region of the pocket .

To determine whether CaHmx1p possesses heme oxygenase activity genomic deletions are generated of both CaHMX1 alleles in strain BWP17 Wilson et al. 1999 RAPID HYPOTHESIS TESTING WITH THROUGH GENE DISRUPTION WITH SHORT HOMOLOGY REGIONS J. Bacteriol. 181 1868 1874 to produce a negative control strain. The culture of parental YJB6284 and null CAMP 50 CaHMX1 cells overnight in the presence of Hb and hemin results in media with distinct colors. Although the null strain retained the brown green color of the added heme and Hb YJB6284 cells generated a distinctly blue green medium. After centrifugation of the culture the majority of the blue compound remains associated with the cell pellet. Extraction of the cell pellets with MeOH and determination of their visible spectra in acidic MeOH demonstrate an increase in absorbance beyond 550 nm that is maximal at 650 700 nm which is typical of biliverdin in this solvent McDonagh et al. 1980 PREPARATION AND PROPERTIES OF CRYSTALLINE BILIVERDIN IX ALPHA. Simple Methods for Preparing Isomerically Homogeneous BILIVERDIN AND C BILIVERDIN BY USING 2 3 DICHLORO 5 6 DICYANOBENZOQUINONE Biochem. J. 189 193 208 Panel A .

The blue green pigment was subjected to HPLC analysis to confirm its identity as biliverdin. The HPLC elution profile reveals two peaks for the parental strain extract Panel B but only a single peak for the CaHMX1 deletion strain Panel C . Therefore CaHMX1 is necessary for the generation of the product in peak L. Under the same growth conditions no reaction is observed using strains 5150 2B Mayer et al. 1991 YEAST CBP1 mRNA 3 END FORMATION IS REGULATED DURING THE INDUCTION OF MITOCHONDRIAL FUNCTION Mol. Cell. Biol. 11 813 821 and YPH 499 Protchenko et al. 2003 REGULATION OF INTRACELLULAR HEME LEVELS BY HMX1 A HOMOLOGUE OF HEME OXYGENASE IN J. Biol. Chem. 278 36582 36587 indicating the species specificity of the reaction.

Comparison of the elution times of these peaks with commercial biliverdin and hemin standards confirmed that peaks I and V represented biliverdin and hemin respectively Panel C . To identify the isomer of biliverdin in peak I we performed coupled oxidation reactions of heme in pyridine to produce all four isomers Panel A and of Hb to generate a mixture of and isomers O Carra et al. 1969 HAEM CATABOLISM AND COUPLED OXIDATION OF HAEMPROTEINS FEBS Lett. 5 295 298 Panel B peaks I and II respectively . The product isolated from the cells coincided with the biliverdin a meso isomer peak compare Panel B with Panels A and B . The addition of Hb alone to YJB6284 cell cultures in iron replete medium also generated the biliverdin isomer Panel D . Thus strain YJB6285 cells can utilize either exogenous heme or Hb to exclusively produce the isomer of meso biliverdin. This confirms that possesses a true heme oxygenase activity and that the CaHMX1 gene encodes this enzyme.

As an additional demonstration that only the biliverdin isomer is produced wild type strain Y JB6284 yeast cells are cultured in defined minimal medium containing glucose and 100 M hemin. After centrifugation cell pellets are extracted with methanol and biliverdin is purified using solid phase extraction C 18 Sep Pak cartridges . Biliverdin and hemin are quantified using HPLC on an ODS column in 60 0.1 M ammonium acetate pH 5 40 methanol followed by a gradient to 100 methanol. A biliverdin standard obtained from Porphyrin Products Logan Utah identified five prominent peaks. In this chromtographic system the biliverdin isomers elute in the order . The product purified from the cell extract identifies the biliverdin isomer 10.4 min and residual hemin 16 min .

As a further demonstration that the heme oxygenase gene HBO 1 directs biliverdin production wild type strain Y JB6284 WT and HBO 1 knockout strain 082 23 KO are grown for 22 hours with 100 uM hemin in defined minimal media. Using the column and conditions presented in above the biliverdin elutes at 10.6 min and is detected only in the WT strain. Hemin elation at 16 min is not significantly different between the samples. This indicates that HB01 is necessary for biliverdin production .

The regulation of heme oxygenase by mammalian hemoglobin reveals a novel adaptation of this fungus to its host environment that has not been described previously for a pathogen. CaHMX1 transcription is rapidly regulated by Hb through its cell surface receptor Pendrak et al. 2000 STRUCTURAL REQUIREMENTS FOR HEMOGLOBIN TO INDUCE FIBRONECTIN RECEPTOR EXPRESSiON IN Biochemistry 39 16110 16118 by a mechanism that is distinct from and additive with induction by iron deficiency. These two modes of regulation for the CaHMX1 gene are clearly distinguishable in their time dependence. Induction by Hb occurs within minutes characteristic of a receptor mediated response whereas induction of CaHMX1 by iron requires several hours. Induction by Hb is also distinguishable from the slow induction of CaHMX1 by exogenous hemin. The above described Examples demonstrate that CaHMX1 encodes a functional heme oxygenase enzyme and that the product of the reaction is exclusively the isomer of biliverdin. Heme oxygenases have been identified in several microorganisms and are clearly important for scavenging of iron from heme proteins but the present invention provides the first evidence that this gene can be regulated in a pathogen by a specific host protein.

Exclusive production of the isomer of biliverdin and loss of this activity following disruption of the gene confirms that CaHMX1 encodes a functional heme oxygenase. Regiospecific cleavage of the Abraham et al. 1988 THE PHYSIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE OF HEME OXYGENASB Int. J. Biochem. 20 543 558 Maines 1988 HEME OXYGENASE FUNCTION MULTIPLICITY REGULATORY MECHANISMS AND CLINICAL APPLICATIONS FASEB J. 2 2557 2568 Schacter 1988 HEME CATABOLISM BY HEME OXYGENASE PHYSIOLOGY REGULATION AND MECHANISM OF ACTION Semin. Hematol. 25 349 369 . The mechanism for heme binding to human heme oxygenase has been defined from the crystal structure Schuller et al. 1999 CRYSTAL STRUCTURE OF HUMAN HEME OXYGENASE 1 Nat. Struct. Biol. 6 860 867 . The heme is orientated with the a meso edge coordinated with specific internal heme contact residues and the distal edge containing the propionic acids oriented away from the cleavage site. The result of this positioning is the exclusive production of the meso isomer of biliverdin. The residues that comprise the heme oxygenase signature are all appropriately positioned in the enzyme consistent with the observed isomeric specificity of heme cleavage in .

The existence of heme oxygenase enzymes in microorganisms that spend either part or all of their life cycles in contact with mammalian hosts has only been described recently e.g. Schmitt 1997 UTILIZATION OF HOST IRON. SOURCES BY IDENTIFICATION OF A GENE WHOSE PRODUCT IS HOMOLOGOUS TO EUKARYOTIC HEME OXYGENASES AND IS REQUIRED FOR ACQUISITION OF IRON FROM HEME AND HEMOGLOBIN J. Bacteriol. 179 838 845 . However the ability to utilize heme as a nutritional iron source has been documented extensively Stojiljkovic et al. 2002 PROCESSING OF HEME AND HEME CONTAINING PROTEINS BY BACTERIA DNA Cell Biol. 21 281 295 . In free living microbes iron deficiency is a stimulus that induces the microbial genes necessary for recycling of iron from heme Genco et al. 2001 EMERGING STRATEGIES IN MICROBIAL HAEM CAPTURE Mol. Microbiol. 39 1 11 . On the other hand possesses a Hb receptor Pendrak et al. 2000 STRUCTURAL REQUIREMENTS FOR HEMOGLOBIN TO INDUCE FIBRONECTIN RECEPTOR EXPRESSION IN Biochemistry 39 16110 16118 that rapidly couples Hb exposure to intracellular signaling and modulates expression of a number of genes. However stimulation of CaHMX1 transcription by rib also occurs under iron sufficiency such as the yeast may encounter in human tissues during advanced disseminated infections. Because Hb is an abundant iron source in a mammalian host this response may represent an adaptation of CaHMX1 gene regulation to facilitate iron acquisition from its host. Therefore CaHMX1 may have other functions in addition to utilization of heme and Hb as nutritional iron sources Santos et al. 2003 HAEMIN UPTAKE AND USE AS AN IRON SOURCE BY ROLE OF CAHMX1 ENCODED HAEM OXYGENASE Microbiology 149 579 588 Weissman et al. 2002 DELETION OF THE COPPER TRANSPORTER CACCC2 REVEALS TWO DISTINCT PATHWAYS FOR IRON ACQUISITION IN Mol. Microbiol. 44 1551 1560 .

The products of the heme oxygenase reaction CO and biliverdin are both active biological compounds in mammals Otterbein et al. 2003 HEME OXYGENASE 1 UNLEASHING THE PROTECTIVE PROPERTIES OF HEME Trends Immunol. 24 8 449 455 . Biliverdin is a potent anti oxidant McDonagh et al. 1980 PREPARATION AND PROPERTIES OF CRYSTALLINE BILIVERDIN 1 SIMPLE METHODS FOR PREPARING ISOMERICALLY HOMOGENEOUS BILIVERDIN AND C BILIVERDIN BY USING 2 3 DICHLORO 5 6 DICYANOBENZOQUINONE Biochem. J. 189 193 208 and CO has cytoprotective activities in several stress responses Otterbein et al. 2003 HEME OXYGENASE 1 UNLEASHING THE PROTECTIVE PROPERTIES OF HEME Trends Immunol. 24 8 449 455 Fujita et al. 2001 PARADOXICAL RESCUE FROM ISCHEMIC LUNG INJURY BY INHALED CARBON MONOXIDE DRIVEN BY DEREPRESSION OF FIBRINOLYSIS Nat. Med. 7 598 604 . Exogenous hemin added to cultures is largely converted to biliverdin Panel B . Biliverdin may serve to protect against oxidative killing by host phagocytes Hampton et al. 1998 INSIDE THE NEUTROPHIL PHAGOSOME OXIDANTS MYELOPEROXIDASE AND BACTERIAL KILLING Blood 92 3007 3017 . Furthermore 3 moles of Oare utilized by heme oxygenase for each mole of heme degraded. This stoichiometry would deplete oxygen from the local environment reduce the local redox potential and reduce levels of reactive oxygen species Otterbein et al. 2003 HEME OXYGENASE 1 UNLEASHING THE PROTECTIVE PROPERTIES OF HEME Trends Immunol. 24 8 449 455 . CO also has potent anti inflammatory effects on monocytes and macrophages Otterbein et al. 2003 HEME OXYGENASE 1 UNLEASHING THE PROTECTIVE PROPERTIES OF HEME Trends Immunol. 24 8 449 455 which could be advantageous to fungal survival in a disseminated infection.

The only fungal heme oxygenase ortholog that has been described is the Hmx1p Reggiori et al. 2001 SORTING OF PROTEINS INTO MULTIVESICULAR BODIES UBIQUITIN DEPENDENT AND INDEPENDENT TARGETING EMBO J. 20 5176 5186 Protchenko et al. 2003 REGULATION OF INTRACELLULAR HEME LEVELS BY HMX1 A HOMOLOGUE OF HEME OXYGENASE IN J. Biol. Chem. 278 36582 36587 . A HMX1 deletion alters iron availability from internal heme pools during iron deficiency Protchenko et al. 2003 REGULATION OF INTRACELLULAR HEME LEVELS BY HMX1 A HOMOLOGUE OF HEME OXYGENASE IN J. Biol. Chem. 278 36582 36587 . Because hemin is transported only very inefficiently in Protchenko et al. 2003 REGULATION OF INTRACELLULAR HEME LEVELS BY HMX1 A HOMOLOGUE OF HEME OXYGENASE IN J. Biol. Chem. 278 36582 36587 Hmx1p activity in this fungus may be limited to the mobilization of internal iron stores. In support of this Hb cannot be used as an iron source by Hb signaling does not occur in Rodrigues et al. 1998 HEMOGLOBIN DIFFERENTIALLY INDUCES BINDING OF CANDIDA TRICHOSPORON AND SACCHAROMYCES SPECIES TO FIBRONECTIN J. Infect. Dis. 178 497 502 and a true heme oxygenase activity could not be demonstrated for Hmx1p Auclair et al. 2003 CLONING AND EXPRESSION OF A HEME BINDING PROTEIN FROM THE GENOME OF SACCHAROMYCES CEREVISIAE Protein Expression Purif. 28 340 349 . Thus the regulation of heme oxygenase identified herein for is not conserved in a fungus that lives independent of a mammalian host. Interestingly hemin uptake by is much more robust Santos et al. 2003 HAEMIN UPTAKE AND USE AS AN IRON SOURCE BY ROLE OF CAHMX1 ENCODED HAEM OXYGENASE Microbiology 149 579 588 suggesting evolution not only in the pathway for heme catabolism but also for acquisition of heme from exogenous home proteins.

One aspect of the present invention relates to the identification of four potential Hap1p consensus sites in the CaHMX1 promoter see Panel D . An increase in hemin catabolism would be a logical step to increase iron availability under iron deprivation. This would result in an increase in CaHMX1 transcription mediated presumably through a HapI heme complex. However exogenous hemin was not a robust inducer of transcription either during log phase or early stationary phase growth. Surprisingly exogenous hemin inhibited CaHMX1 transcription when stimulated by either exogenous Hb or iron deficiency Panel B . Whether this results from intracellular transport of hemin or from cell surface binding remains to be determined. These results imply that extracellular release of heme does not mediate the observed regulation of CaHMX1 by Hb but also suggest has evolved to limit its acquisition of iron from Hb when it is exposed to exogenous hemin. This may prevent accumulation of toxic levels of iron.

CaHMX1 is one of several Hb regulated genes in . Exposure to Hb may be enhanced during invasive infection and may be exacerbated by hemolysins Luo et al. 2001 SPECIES EXHIBIT DIFFERENTIAL IN VITRO HEMOLYTIC ACTIVITIES J. Clin. Microbiol. 39 2971 2974 Manns et al. 1994 PRODUCTION OF A HEMOLYTIC FACTOR BY Infect. Immun. 62 5154 5156 . Hb signaling may provide information about spatial positioning within the host and proximity to locations where host defenses may be encountered. The response of CaHMX1 transcription is very rapid suggesting that a rapid signaling pathway is controlled by the as yet undefined f receptor. Therefore CaHmx1p may be a useful target for novel antifungals to regulate growth in the iron restricted environment of a mammalian host and to limit the ability of to survive in specific host microenvironments.

In sum is an opportunistic pathogen that has adapted uniquely to life in mammalian hosts. One of the host factors recognized by this yeast is hemoglobin which binds to a specific cell surface receptor. In addition to its regulating the expression of adhesion receptors on the yeast hemoglobin induces the expression of a heme oxygenase CaHmx1p . Hemoglobin transcriptionally induces the CaHMX1 gene independently of the presence of inorganic iron in the medium. A luciferase reporter driven by the CaHMX1 promoter demonstrated rapid activation of transcription by hemoglobin and cobalt protoporphyrin IX globin but not by apoglobin or other proteins. In contrast iron deficiency or exogenous hemin did not activate the reporter until after 3 hours suggesting that induction of the promoter by hemoglobin is mediated by receptor signaling rather than heme or iron flux into the cell. As observed following disruption of the ortholog HMX1 a CaHMX1 null mutant was unable to grow under iron restriction. This suggests a role for CaHmx1p in inorganic iron acquisition. CaHMX1 encodes a functional heme oxygenase. Exogenous heme or hemoglobin is exclusively metabolized to biliverdin. CaHMX1 is required for utilization of these exogenous substrates indicating that heme oxygenase confers a nutritional advantage for growth in mammalian hosts.

All publications and patents mentioned in this specification are herein incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent application was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

While the invention has been described in connection with specific embodiments thereof it will be understood that it is capable of further modifications and this application is intended to cover any variations uses or adaptations of the invention following in general the principles of the invention and including such departures from the present disclosure as come within known or customary practice within the art to which the invention pertains and as may be applied to the essential features hereinbefore set forth.

