---

title: Enterprise gamification system for awarding employee performance
abstract: Methods, computer-readable media, and systems for gathering gamification data from business applications. Common gamification data that describes a user that accesses a business software environment, and specific gamification data that describes the user and is specific to a particular computer system in the business environment are identified at a user interface of a client device in response to a request from a gamification engine. By executing gamification logic in the user interface, the common gamification data and the specific gamification data are collected at the user interface and provided to the gamification engine. For example, the gamification data can be gathered by monitoring interactions between the user and the client device that is connected to the gamification engine at the user interface, and provided to the gamification engine independent of the business computer system to which the client device is connected.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08768751&OS=08768751&RS=08768751
owner: SAP AG
number: 08768751
owner_city: Walldorf
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20120425
---
The present disclosure relates to software computer systems and computer implemented methods for gamification.

Business software environments include business computer systems each of which includes multiple inter connected computer systems executing computer software applications to perform business operations. A business computer system can be dedicated to a particular aspect of a business for example sales production marketing and the like. A business computer system that is dedicated to an aspect can be connected to similar business computer systems that are dedicated to respective other aspects of the business. Such software systems can collectively form a business software environment. A user associated with a particular business computer system for example a sales employee using a sales computer system can access features associated with the particular business computer system that other users not associated with the particular business computer system cannot access. In addition the user can access features associated with the business software environment that are accessible to all users of all business computer systems that form the environment.

To enhance productivity and efficiency of employees and to introduce an element of fun at work a business can employ gamification techniques for example by using game design and mechanics to solve problems and engage its employees. For example gamification techniques can be implemented as incentives to employees of an aspect of a business for example to engage in pseudo competitions. Such techniques can also be implemented to incentivize employees of one aspect of a business for example sales to engage in pseudo competitions with another aspect of the business for example production. In another example the sales department can be incentivized to engage in a pseudo competition of achieving a certain target for example a sales goal.

In some situations the gamification techniques can be incorporated into or included as part of the business software environment and implemented using one or more gamification computer systems. To do so data describing users of the business software environment may need to be gathered. In some situations significant changes to the infrastructure of the business software environment may be needed to incorporate the data gathering techniques and the gamification techniques.

The present disclosure involves systems software and computer implemented methods for gathering gamification data from business software environments.

In general one innovative aspect of the subject matter described here can be implemented as a computer implemented method. It is determined that a user has accessed a business software environment including multiple computer systems using a client device that is connected to the business software environment. Each computer system implements respective computer software applications to perform respective operations. In response to determining that the user has accessed the business software environment a user interface is presented at the client device. Common gamification data that describes the user is identified at the user interface in response to receiving a request for the common gamification data from a gamification engine connected to the business software environment. It is determined at the user interface that the user has accessed a particular computer system of the multiple computer systems. Specific gamification data that describes the user and that is specific to gamification in the particular computer system is identified at the user interface in response to receiving a request for the specific gamification data from the gamification engine. The common gamification data and the specific gamification data are provided to the gamification engine in response to receiving the requests.

This and other aspects can include one or more of the following features. Operations performed at the user interface can be monitored. The operations can include one or more of operations performed by the user through the user interface operations implemented by the business software environment through the user interface or operations implemented by the particular computer system through the user interface. Identifying the common gamification data and the specific gamification data at the user interface can include identifying the common gamification data and the specific gamification data based on monitoring the operations. Determining that the user has accessed the business software environment can include authenticating the user as an authorized user of the business software environment. The common gamification data can include authentication data that the user provides to be authenticated as the authorized user. Data that the user is authorized to access can be presented in the user interface. At least a portion of the data that the user is authorized to access can be included in the common gamification data. The data that the user is authorized to access can include a navigation structure assigned to an account on the multiple computer systems that is associated with the user. Determining that the user has accessed the particular computer system can include displaying the navigation structure in the user interface and determining that the user has selected a portion of the navigation structure that is specific to the particular computer system. The specific gamification data can include gamification data that the user provides to or receives through the user interface gamification data received from a computer software framework provided by the particular system in response to executing instructions to present the user interface and gamification data received from the computer system based on interactions between the user and the particular computer system. The gamification engine can determine a performance measure based on the common gamification data and the specification data. The gamification performance measure can be provided to the user through the user interface. The common gamification data and the specific gamification data can be identified periodically starting from a time that the user accesses the business software environment and stopping at a time when the user ceases to access the particular computer system. In response to determining that the user has accessed the business environment using the client device a gamification logic can be executed in the user interface to gather the common gamification data and the specific gamification data.

Another innovative aspect of the subject matter described here can be implemented as a non transitory computer readable medium executing computer software instructions executable by data processing apparatus to perform operations described here. A further innovative aspect of the subject matter described here can be implemented as a system that includes one or more data processing apparatus and a non transitory computer readable medium storing computer software instructions executable by the one or more data processing apparatus to perform the operations described here.

While generally described as computer implemented software embodied on tangible media that processes and transforms the respective data some or all of the aspects may be computer implemented methods or further included in respective systems or other devices for performing this described functionality. The details of these and other aspects and implementations of the present disclosure are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

This disclosure describes computer implemented methods computer readable media and computer systems for gathering gamification data from multiple computer systems in a business software environment and providing the gathered gamification data to a gamification engine described below that implements gamification in the business software environment. The gathered gamification data describes users of the business software environment for example users who are authorized to use the computer systems in the business software environment. The gamification engine can gather the gamification data describing the users through the user interface UI clients infrastructure implemented by each of the multiple computer systems in the business software environment. In some implementations a user can access the business software environment particularly a computer system in the environment using a client device. When the user does so the business software environment can present a user interface in the client device. Gamification logic described below can be executed in the user interface through which the gamification data can be collected and provided to the gamification engine.

For example with the user s consent the gamification engine can monitor and track a user s interactions with a UI provided by a computer system in the business software environment that the user is authorized to access. From all such users the gamification engine can extract relevant data describing the user and identify gamification data i.e. data that is of interest for gamification. Through users usage of UIs the gamification engine can extract for example by capturing and tagging gamification data to measure gamification relevant key performance indicators KPIs . By processing the gathered data the gamification engine can provide a gamification UI to users who participate in gamification to allow the users to self monitor their performances.

Implementing the techniques described here may provide one or more of the following potential advantages. The gamification engine can be connected to the business software environment and configured to use the existing UI infrastructure implemented by the multiple computer systems of the business software environment. For example the gamification engine can be configured to gather data describing the users from user interfaces that are displayed on the users respective client devices by the business computer systems. This can minimize or negate the need to modify the existing business software environment to enable integrating the gamification engine thereby enabling a non disruptive integration of gamification with the business software environment. For example the gamification engine can gather data about the users without being connected to or while maintaining a minimal connection to the business computer systems that the users access.

Further by gathering gamification data as described below the gamification engine can be integrated centrally at a point through which a substantial number of users of the business software environment will pass to access the multiple computer systems of the environment. Such a central approach in which the gamification engine uses or re uses an existing UI client infrastructure can enable gamification in business software and accelerate the implementation of gamification. The central approach can also enable gamification across multiple systems technologies and applications without a need to modify the existing applications.

The gamification data gathered by implementing the techniques described here can enable implementing present and future gamification ideas in the business software environment. Such ideas can be maintained and distributed centrally thereby decreasing or potentially eliminating distribution issues. For a gamification participant i.e. a user of one of the computer systems such an implementation of gamification allows the participant to decide whether or not she wants to participate as an initial matter and subsequently to obtain updates on her achievements KPIs other relevant data or combinations of them.

Furthermore by providing gathered data describing users to the gamification engine using the techniques described here the business software environment can be enabled to implement a gamification process with which efficiency or effectiveness or both of users of the business computer systems in the environment for example in their respective daily work can be determined. Responsively gamification techniques can be implemented to increase productivity. From the perspective of the users consenting to the gathering of data and participating in gamification can introduce an element of fun at work thereby increasing a respective user s interest in working and ultimately resulting in an increase in productivity or efficiency or both . By offering gamification services that can non disruptively be integrated with business software environments the gamification services can attract business software environments to implement gamification processes.

In the example implementations described below the gamification data that is collected and provided to the gamification engine is described as including two types common gamification data that describes users that access the business software environment and specific gamification data that describes users that access a particular computer system in the environment and that is specific to the particular computer system. It will be understood that the common gamification data and the specific gamification data can include overlapping data. For example an item of specific gamification data that is specific to the particular computer system can be the same for multiple computer systems and consequently can overlap with an item of common gamification data. Further in the example implementations described below the common gamification data and the specific gamification data are described as being received in response to receiving a first request and a second request respectively from the gamification engine. The first request and the second request can be part of the same request. Further the requests can be received in any sequence from the gamification and in some examples can be received in parallel.

Gamification in the business software environment is implemented by a gamification engine . By implementing the techniques described below the gamification engine can gather data describing the users and use the gathered data for gamification. The multiple business computer systems and the gamification engine are connected by one or more networks for example a first network a second network such as the Internet. In addition each client is connected to its respective business computer system through one or more networks not shown such as the Internet.

As described below the gamification engine can gather data describing the users by re using the existing UI client infrastructure implemented by each business computer system in the business software environment . In some implementations the existing UI infrastructure can provide options such as an option to launch business software applications implemented by the business computer systems. The gamification engine can be non disruptively integrated with the UI client infrastructure. Implementations of the gamification engine to gather data describing the users is described below with reference to one business computer system for example the first computer system that is connected to multiple client devices. The gamification engine can extract relevant user information and identify gamification related content extract relevant gamification information and measure gamification performance against KPIs and perform as a UI centric engine.

The data gathering techniques are described below from the perspective of a user operating a client device connected to the first business computer system but are applicable to multiple users operating multiple client devices connected to the other business computer systems in the business software environment . Further the data gathering techniques are described as being implemented by the business computer systems to which the client devices are connected but can be implemented in the alternative or in addition by the gamification engine or by other computer systems connected to the business software environment not shown .

The client can be any computer system for example a desktop computer a laptop computer a personal digital assistant a tablet computer a mobile device and the like. In some implementations the first client can include a computer for example a central processing unit connected to a display device and input devices for example keyboard mouse stylus touch screen and the like. The first client can implement business software applications by executing computer software instructions to perform operations including displaying user interfaces in the display device . A user of the first client can provide data to the UI using the input devices . The gamification engine can execute gamification logic in the UI that causes UI to gather all or portions of the data provided by the user of the first client and to transmit the gathered portions to the gamification engine for use in gamification. In this manner the gamification engine can obtain gamification data directly from the client device based on operations performed at the client device. The operations performed at the client device can include one or more of operations performed by the user through the user interface operations implemented by the business software environment through the user interface or operations implemented by the particular computer system through the user interface.

As described above the first business computer system is part of and connected to a business software environment . Thus an authorized user of the first client can access features of both the business software environment and the first business computer system itself. For example the authorized user can access UI provided by the business software environment to log in to the environment as a first step and then access UI provided by the first business computer system to log in to the system as a second step. The UI provided by the business software environment represents a single point of entry common to all users and through which all users must pass to access a business computer system in the environment . Having successfully passed through this single point of entry the authorized user can access additional UI features offered by the first business computer system .

For example the authorized user can access sales features of the UI offered by a sales computer system to place orders and conduct sales related transactions. However the authorized user may not have access to aspects of other business computer systems for example the marketing computer system. Consequently the data that describes a user can be divided into two categories common gamification data that describes the user as a user of the business software environment and specific gamification data that describes the user as a user of a business computer system and is specific to gamification in the particular computer system. As described below the gamification engine can gather both common gamification data and specific gamification data that describe a user.

In some implementations the first business computer system can determine that a user has accessed the business software environment through the first business computer system . For example the user can launch a business software application installed on the first client device which can grant the user access to the business software environment . When the user has accessed the business software environment the gamification engine can provide a request to the first business computer system for common gamification data describing the user. The common gamification data can include authentication data that the user provides to be authenticated as an authorized user of the business software environment .

The first business computer system can present a user interface that is common to the multiple business computer systems in the business software environment in response to determining that the user has accessed the business software environment. For example in the user interface the first business computer system can display features common to all business computer systems in the environment that all users of the environment are authorized to access. In response to the request from the gamification engine for the common gamification data the first business computer system can include at least a portion of the data that the user is authorized to access. For example in the request the gamification engine can specify a time of access a location of access for example from the office client device a mobile device and the like . Common gamification data that describes the user and that is common to all computer systems can be for example the client type that the user is using such as a desktop application an Internet interface a mobile device the user name language used user s organization and the user s role in the organization. In response the first business computer system can monitor the data specified in the request and provide the requested data to the gamification engine .

In some implementations the user of the first client device can access a particular computer system namely the first business computer system . As described below the user can do so by selecting one or more navigational features displayed in the UI after the UI has access the business software environment . In this situation the gamification engine can provide another request for specific gamification data that describes the user and that is specific to the first business computer system . The first business computer system can identify the specific gamification data which can include gamification data that the user provides to or receives through UIs displayed on the display device by the first business computer system . The specific gamification data can also include gamification data received from a computer software framework provided by the first business computer system in response to executing the instructions to present the UI in the display device . The specific gamification data can also include gamification data received from the computer system based on interactions between the user and the first business computer system . Additional examples of specific gamification data are described below.

The first business computer system can provide the common gamification data and the specific gamification data to the gamification engine in response to receiving the requests. In some implementations the gamification engine can request the common gamification data in a first request and the specific gamification data in a second request or can request the common and specific gamification data together in one request. The gamification engine can provide the first and second requests in any sequence. The gamification engine can determine a performance measured based on the common gamification data and the specific gamification data and can provide the gamification performance measure to the user for example by displaying the performance measure in a UI on the display device as described below. In some implementations first business computer system can identify the common gamification data and the specific gamification data periodically starting from a time that the user accesses the business software environment and stopping at a time when the user ceases to access the first business computer system .

Assuming that the user has granted consent then common gamification data and specific gamification data describing the user can be collected as described below. When the user launches a business software application associated with the first business computer system the system or the gamification engine can display a UI in the display device connected to the first client device . Because the user has granted consent to participate in gamification the first client device can gather gamification data describing the user. To do so in some implementations the user interface can implement gamification logic which can include computer software instructions for example encoded in the user interface and executable by the computer of the first client device . The gamification logic can be encoded in the user interface either by the first business computer system or by the gamification engine or by both. By executing the gamification logic the first client device can determine features of the business software environment and of the system that the user is authorized to access and identify gamification data from the features that can be used to determine the user s KPIs.

For example the user starts a UI client associated with the business software environment causing the first client device to initiate a log in operation by transmitting a request to the first business computer software system and to request navigation structures assigned to the user s account. If the first business computer system authenticates the user then the system can provide a navigation structure for example a navigation tree. At this stage the gamification logic can gather almost everything that the user can launch using the UI client and the navigation structure as input into the gamification process.

The UI client requests a gamification mapping from a repository that stores portions of the features shown in the UI client that are gamification enabled i.e. gatherable for use in gamification. The features include both the common gamification data i.e. data describing the user of the business software environment in general and specific gamification data i.e. data describing the user of the first business computer system in specific. The UI client can transmit a request for the gamification enabled features to the gamification engine over the network . The gamification engine can retrieve the features from storage and provide the retrieved features to the UI client in response. The gamification relevant data for example configuration data can be stored in any format for example either as part of the gamification logic in the UI client or as part of the gamification engine from where it is shared with all UI clients or in combinations of them. In some implementations such gamification configuration data can be stored in a database connected to the gamification engine . The gamification configuration features can include both the common gamification data and the specific gamification data. Once the UI client receives the features the UI client can monitor track and gather data associated with the features. The UI client can periodically transmit the gathered data which includes common gamification data and specific gamification data to the gamification engine . The user can work with the UI client as usual for example by navigating the navigation structures and launching one or more applications.

A second stage of gathering gamification data can include extraction of relevant gamification data and measuring of the gamification KPIs. To determine KPIs of a user that can be measured the gamification engine can initially define data describing the user that can be captured. As described below the gamification logic can extract data from different channels and present the data to the gamification engine which can present gamification performance measures to the user through the UI . For example the gamification logic can gather data directly from the UI client . The gamification logic can gather gamification data including operations performed by the user for example a search was used a system was successfully added a side panel functionality was leveraged and the like. In addition the gamification logic can also monitor and track navigation activities such as one or more specific business software applications that the user launches.

The gamification logic can gather gamification data from the business software application that the user of the first client device has launched. Using the software framework of the business software application the gamification logic can monitor and track activity on the application. By doing so the gamification logic can capture specific UI fields and elements of the business software application UI. The gamification logic can transmit the gathered data to the gamification engine either periodically or upon gathering all data or upon an occurrence of an event for example a termination of a session between the first client device and the first business computer system . By tracking and gathering gamification data as described here the gamification engine can use the business software application to track gamification relevant information without modifying the business software application thereby minimizing risk and expense. In some situations the business software application can provide gamification data including a quantity of sales orders created a quantity of invoices viewed and the like. In addition the gamification engine can inform the user of the user s current state of achievements or a list of achievements on which the user can work or both . For example the gamification engine can display the user s performance measure determined based on gathered gamification data in the UI .

The example UI is a sales UI that includes a navigation structure on the left displaying HOME WORKLIST Sales Management Self Services and REPORTS . In a HOME screen the UI displays Favorite Tasks that represent for example frequently performed tasks. In addition the UI includes a Sales Dashboard that displays one or more headlines including pie charts column graphs and the like. Assuming that the user has not previously consented to participate in gamification the gamification engine can display a participation request UI on the display device. The user may select Yes indicating that the user wishes to participate in gamification. This triggers the gathering of gamification data for example by the gamification logic not shown implemented in the UI.

As a first task the user can select Create sales order in UI . The gamification logic can track the selection as part of gathering gamification data and transmit the data to the gamification engine . In response the gamification engine can display an Award Notification in the UI indicating that the user has received an award for creating a sales order. When the user selects Create sales order in UI the UI can be presented with a sales order creation UI in which the user can enter details of the transaction. The gamification logic can track each entry in the UI as part of gathering gamification data. Once the user completes entering the transaction details and saves the sales order the gamification logic can track the completion of the sales order and communicate the completion to the gamification engine which in response can display an award notification in UI indicating that the user has received another award for completing the creation of a sales order.

The user can then return to the HOME screen by selecting HOME causing the HOME screen to be displayed in UI . The user may then desire to view reports on the user s performance in gamification. To do so the user can open a side panel region in which the user can then select a Reporting option shown in UI . In response multiple headlines including pie charts column graphs and the like as well as one or more link lists can be displayed in a section of the UI . When the user selects the Reporting icon a drop down menu can be displayed in the UI . One of the options in the drop down menu can include Award Systems a selection of which can cause the users performance measures to be displayed.

When the user selects the Award Systems icon information describing performance measures can be displayed in the UI . The information can include the users total performance measures in one or more categories for example Gold Silver Bronze and the like a completeness measure indicated by a percentage for example 3 and by an arrow on a scale recent achievements of the user and a leaderboard displaying identities of gamification leaders. Having viewed the information about the gamification performance the user can collapse the side panel again returning to the HOME screen in UI . Because the side panel is considered as a supportive element in the business flow an award notification can be displayed in UI indicating that the user has been awarded for closing the side panel . To view additional information about performance the user can select to expand the side panel again and select Recent Achievements in UI causing the UI to be displayed. In the UI the gamification engine can display the user s various achievements including for example an Overview of Achievements Application Achievements and the like. The user can then close the UI causing the UI to be displayed.

At it can be determined at the user interface that the user has accessed a particular computer system of the multiple computer systems. At in response to receiving a request for specific gamification data that describes the user and that is specific to gamification in the particular computer system from the gamification engine the specific gamification data can be identified at the user interface for example by executing the gamification logic. At the common gamification data and the specific gamification data can be provided to the gamification engine in response to the respective requests for the data.

By implementing the techniques described here the gamification engine can provide a design time environment for gamification setup a runtime environment which receives and provides gamification data and reporting and a UI framework that enables connectivity between the various business computer systems in the business software environment and the gamification engine . The gamification engine can maintain gamification metadata in the design time environment for example identities of applications that are relevant for gamification. The gamification engine can further provide gamification relevant metadata for example to identify gamification relevant applications through a well defined application programming interface API . The gamification engine can also provide services for collecting incoming data user interfaces that can post gamification results for example based on HTTP HTTPS and other gamification services such as for example leader boards or UIs to dedicated leader board servers.

Implementations of the subject matter and the operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. Implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer programs i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on computer storage medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. Alternatively or in addition the program instructions can be encoded on an artificially generated propagated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus for execution by a data processing apparatus. A computer storage medium for example the computer readable medium can be or be included in a computer readable storage device a computer readable storage substrate a random or serial access memory array or device or a combination of one or more of them. Moreover while a computer storage medium is not a propagated signal a computer storage medium can be a source or destination of computer program instructions encoded in an artificially generated propagated signal. The computer storage medium can also be or be included in one or more separate physical and or non transitory components or media e.g. multiple CDs disks or other storage devices .

The operations described in this specification can be implemented as operations performed by a data processing apparatus for example data processing apparatus on data stored on one or more computer readable storage devices or received from other sources. In some implementations the techniques described here can be implemented in a cloud computing environment. For example a user can access the business software environment described here via a cloud to which the user s client device is connected. Gamification data can be collected and transmitted to a cloud in which the data can be stored. The gamification engine can retrieve the data from the cloud.

The term data processing apparatus encompasses all kinds of apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer a system on a chip or multiple ones or combinations of the foregoing. The apparatus can include special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit . The apparatus can also include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system a cross platform runtime environment a virtual machine or a combination of one or more of them. The apparatus and execution environment can realize various different computing model infrastructures such as web services distributed computing and grid computing infrastructures.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages declarative or procedural languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine object or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program may but need not correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform actions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing actions in accordance with instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Moreover a computer can be embedded in another device e.g. a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio or video player a game console a Global Positioning System GPS receiver or a portable storage device e.g. a universal serial bus USB flash drive to name just a few. Devices suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input. In addition a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user for example by sending web pages to a web browser on a user s client device in response to requests received from the web browser.

Implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described in this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network for example network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN an inter network e.g. the Internet and peer to peer networks e.g. ad hoc peer to peer networks .

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other. In some implementations a server transmits data e.g. an HTML page to a client device e.g. for purposes of displaying data to and receiving user input from a user interacting with the client device . Data generated at the client device e.g. a result of the user interaction can be received from the client device at the server.

While this specification contains many specific implementation details these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of any implementations or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular implementations of particular implementations. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate implementations can also be implemented in combination in a single implementation. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single implementation can also be implemented in multiple implementations separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the implementations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all implementations and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Thus particular implementations of the subject matter have been described. Other implementations are within the scope of the following claims. In some cases the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results. In addition the processes depicted in the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the particular order shown or sequential order to achieve desirable results. In certain implementations multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous.

