---

title: Trusted access to third party applications systems and methods
abstract: A method of downloading trusted content. The method comprises sending by a mobile device a request for a trusted content to a server, wherein the mobile device comprises a first mobile device trusted security zone and builds the request while executing in the first mobile device trusted security zone and wherein the server comprises a server trusted security zone and wherein the server handles the request for the trusted content at least partly in the server trusted security zone. The method comprises receiving the trusted content by the first mobile device trusted security zone, storing the trusted content in a second mobile device trusted security zone of the mobile device, inspecting the trusted content in the second mobile device trusted security zone, and when the trusted content passes inspection, at least one of executing or presenting a portion of the trusted content by the first mobile device trusted security zone.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08863252&OS=08863252&RS=08863252
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 08863252
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120725
---
Electronic communications may carry a wide variety of content for example electronic mail medical records financial transactions and other confidential information. The electronic communications may travel for some of the communication end to end path over unsecured communication links where the content may be subject to tampering or intrusion. A variety of security measures have been applied to provide increased security and to raise the level of difficulty for nefarious actors attempting to access the confidential information. Applications are sometimes uploaded to computing platforms and or communication devices from sources that make no warranty of the integrity of the applications. For example sometimes individual application developers may upload an application that they offer for free or for a purchase price to the source such as an application repository. These applications may be deliberately or unknowingly infected with malware. When one of these applications is downloaded to a computing platform and or a mobile communication device the computing platform and or the mobile communication device may have a negative experience because of malware carried in the downloaded application.

In an embodiment a method of downloading trusted content is disclosed. The method comprises sending by a mobile device a request for a trusted content to a server wherein the mobile device comprises a first mobile device trusted security zone and builds the request while executing in the first mobile device trusted security zone and wherein the server comprises a server trusted security zone and handles the request for the trusted content at least partly in the server trusted security zone. The method further comprises receiving the trusted content by the first mobile device trusted security zone storing the trusted content in a second mobile device trusted security zone of the mobile device and inspecting the trusted content in the second mobile device trusted security zone. When the trusted content passes inspection the method further comprises at least one of executing at least a portion of the trusted content by the first mobile device trusted security zone or presenting at least a portion of the trusted content by the first mobile device trusted security zone.

In an embodiment a method of transmitting trusted content is disclosed. The method comprises receiving a content wherein the content designates trusted execution and based on the designation for trusted execution executing a browser plug in in a trusted security zone wherein when the browser plug in executes in the trusted security zone applications are prevented from executing in the normal security zone. The method further comprises translating a form content of the content to a trusted form content by the browser plug in presenting the trusted form on a display by the browser plug in receiving user input directed to the trusted form from a user interface by the browser plug in and transmitting the user input to complete a confidential transaction.

In an embodiment a trusted application marketplace is disclosed. The trusted application market place comprises a processor having a trusted security zone a memory and an application stored in the memory. When executed in the trusted security zone of the processor the application receives a trusted application and trust credentials associated with the trusted application and validates the trust credentials associated with the trusted application. When the trust credentials associated with the trusted application are deemed valid the application stores the trusted application in the memory. The application further receives a request for the trusted application and trust credentials associated with the request validates the trust credentials associated with the request and when the trust credentials associated with the request are deemed valid sends the trusted application to the requesting device.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

Systems and methods are taught herein that may be used collaboratively or separately to increase the trust of applications downloaded to computing devices from application repositories. The systems and methods may also be used to promote trusted presentation of sensitive and or confidential information. A trusted application for example a computer program may be uploaded to a repository of trusted applications. The trusted application may be transmitted to a server computer that manages the repository of trusted applications to maintain the trusted state of those trusted applications. In some contexts the server may be said to provide a trusted application marketplace and or a trusted marketplace. The trusted application may be sent by a computer a developer or a corporation that is qualified to provide trusted applications. In some contexts a trusted application provided by a developer or a corporation may be referred to as a third party application. To prevent tampering the trusted application may be transmitted to the server via a trusted end to end communication link. A communication tool executing in a trusted security zone of a sending device may transmit the trusted application along with a trust credential that promotes verification of the trust of the trusted application by the receiving device for example the server. A communication tool executing in a trusted security zone of the server verifies the trust of the transmitted trusted application by inspecting or analyzing the one or more trust credentials received with the trusted application. When the trust of the trusted application is verified or confirmed the server may store the trusted application in the repository.

When a request to download the trusted application is received from a device the server may confirm that the requesting device is executing in a trusted security zone of the device. The server may then send the trusted application along with one or more trust credentials to the requesting device. The trust credentials may include one or more trust tokens confirming the trusted sending of the application from the developer to the server for example the sending of the application over a trusted end to end communication link. The trust tokens may also include one or more tokens confirming that the server sent the application when executing in the trusted security zone of the server. Additional trust tokens may be accumulated as the trusted application transits a trusted end to end communication link for example a trust token may be contributed by the trusted security zone of each transited network node in the trusted end to end communication link. The trust credentials may further include information about the handling of the trusted application for example the handling by a developer and or provider of the trusted application and the handling by the server. Alternatively a plurality of trust credentials and or trust reports may be accumulated in a single trust token or a relatively small number of trust tokens. The trust token or trust tokens may be viewed as a kind of birth certificate or pedigree of the application. In an embodiment at any point in the end to end path from the developer to the repository and from the repository to the end user the continuity of trust of the subject application can be walked back using the trust token or trust tokens to determine if the application can be trusted for example to be trusted to be free of malware introduced after leaving the developer s hands.

The requesting device may establish a provisional trusted security zone in which to receive the trusted application. If the trusted application is encrypted the requesting device decrypts the trusted application in the provisional trusted security zone. Once decrypted the provisional trusted security zone may detect that the trusted application is corrupted or carries malware in which case the decrypted trusted application is removed. The trusted application may be transmitted with and or may encapsulate a manifest defining the computing resources that the trusted application proposes to access. If the requesting device is configured to prevent access by applications to some of the computing resources the trusted application may be removed or prevented from executing.

The trusted application may carry a checksum or a cyclic redundancy check CRC number that can be used to determine if the trusted application has been altered. The provisional trusted security zone may confirm the checksum or CRC carried with the trusted application agrees with the corresponding checksum or CRC number calculated over the trusted application by the provisional trusted security zone. As would be appreciated by one skilled in the art if the trusted application has been modified and or corrupted the checksum or CRC transmitted with the application is unlikely to match the checksum or CRC calculated over the application at the end use point for example at the requesting device and the application can be deleted or otherwise quarantined to avoid harm to the requesting device. The provisional trusted security zone may perform one or more virus scans of the trusted application. The provisional trusted security zone may execute the trusted application to determine if it attempts to access computing resources that are not identified in the manifest. Based on these tests checks and trials the provisional trusted security zone may determine that the trusted application retains the trusted state.

If the trusted application passes these inspections and is deemed to remain in a trusted state the provisional trusted security zone may copy the trusted application to the memory of the requesting device for example a mobile phone. The trusted application may be copied to a trusted memory partition. Alternatively the trusted application may be copied to a normal memory partition but the checksum or CRC number of the trusted application may be copied to the trusted memory partition. Before executing a trusted application stored in the normal memory partition a trusted security zone of the requesting device may confirm that the trusted application still matches the checksum and or CRC number.

In an embodiment a browser plug in that is configured to work with a plurality of browsers is invoked when trusted content is accessed by a browser on a device. The browser plug in executes in a trusted security zone of the device and other non trusted applications are prevented from accessing the content handled by the browser plug in and are prevented from accessing the memory of the user interfaces of the device while the trusted security zone is executing instructions. In this way trusted content for example medical records medical diagnostic reports or information medical treatment regimens and the like may be prevented from being screen scraped monitored or otherwise captured by malware that may be present on the device.

If the browser of the device accesses a content that encapsulates a form requesting confidential information such as an on line purchase form that requests a credit card number and or authentication information the browser may invoke the browser plug in and the browser plug in may create a copy of the form input screen. The browser plug in presents the form input screen to a user of the device and receives the user s input. The browser plug in may execute in the trusted security zone thereby preventing untrusted applications from executing and possibly spying on or otherwise capturing the information that a user inputs into the form input screen. The browser plug in may encrypt the user input and provide this to the browser to send to the on line store. Alternatively the browser plug in may send the user input to the on line store.

It will be appreciated that these several techniques may be used singly or in combination with each other to promote trusted access from a mobile device for example from a mobile phone to trusted content. The continuity of trust among the several actors in the system a trusted source of a trusted application a trusted marketplace for selling and or distributing the trusted application and a mobile device that requests receives and verifies the trusted application in a trusted security zone can promote the trust that is vital to robust propagation of applications that interwork with sensitive information.

A trusted security zone provides chipsets with a hardware root of trust a secure execution environment for applications and secure access to peripherals. A hardware root of trust means the chipset should only execute programs intended by the device manufacturer or vendor and resists software and physical attacks and therefore remains trusted to provide the intended level of security. The chipset architecture is designed to promote a programmable environment that allows the confidentiality and integrity of assets to be protected from specific attacks. Trusted security zone capabilities are becoming features in both wireless and fixed hardware architecture designs. Providing the trusted security zone in the main mobile device chipset and protecting the hardware root of trust removes the need for separate secure hardware to authenticate the device or user. To ensure the integrity of the applications requiring trusted data such as a mobile financial services application the trusted security zone also provides the secure execution environment where only trusted applications can operate safe from attacks. Security is further promoted by restricting access of non trusted applications to peripherals such as data inputs and data outputs while a trusted application is running in the secure execution environment. In an embodiment the trusted security zone may be conceptualized as hardware assisted security.

A complete trusted execution environment TEE may be implemented through the use of the trusted security zone hardware and software architecture. The trusted execution environment is an execution environment that is parallel to the execution environment of the main mobile device operating system. The trusted execution environment and or the trusted security zone may provide a base layer of functionality and or utilities for use of applications that may execute in the trusted security zone. For example in an embodiment trust tokens may be generated by the base layer of functionality and or utilities of the trusted execution environment and or trusted security zone for use in trusted end to end communication links to document a continuity of trust of the communications. For further details concerning trusted end to end communication links see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 532 588 filed Jun. 25 2012 End to End Trusted Communication Infrastructure by Leo Michael McRoberts et al. which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirely. Through standardization of application programming interfaces APIs the trusted execution environment becomes a place to which scalable deployment of secure services can be targeted. A device which has a chipset that has a trusted execution environment on it may exist in a trusted services environment where devices in the trusted services environment are trusted and protected against attacks. The trusted execution environment can be implemented on mobile phones and tablets as well as extending to other trusted devices such as personal computers servers sensors medical devices point of sale terminals industrial automation handheld terminals automotive etc.

The trusted security zone is implemented by partitioning all of the hardware and software resources of the mobile device into two partitions a secure partition and a normal partition. Placing sensitive resources in the secure partition can protect against possible attacks on those resources. For example resources such as trusted software applications may run in the secure partition and have access to hardware peripherals such as a touchscreen or a secure location in memory. Less secure peripherals such as wireless radios may be disabled completely while the secure partition is being accessed while other peripherals may only be accessed from the secure partition. While the secure partition is being accessed through the trusted execution environment the main mobile operating system in the normal partition is suspended and applications in the normal partition are prevented from accessing the secure peripherals and data. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from breaking the trust of the device.

The trusted security zone is implemented by partitioning the hardware and software resources to exist in a secure subsystem which is not accessible to components outside the secure subsystem. The trusted security zone is built into the processor architecture at the time of manufacture through hardware logic present in the trusted security zone which enables a perimeter boundary between the secure partition and the normal partition. The trusted security zone may only be manipulated by those with the proper credential and in an embodiment may not be added to the chip after it is manufactured. Software architecture to support the secure partition may be provided through a dedicated secure kernel running trusted applications. Trusted applications are independent secure applications which can be accessed by normal applications through an application programming interface in the trusted execution environment on a chipset that utilizes the trusted security zone.

In an embodiment the normal partition applications run on a first virtual processor and the secure partition applications run on a second virtual processor. Both virtual processors may run on a single physical processor executing in a time sliced fashion removing the need for a dedicated physical security processor. Time sliced execution comprises switching contexts between the two virtual processors to share processor resources based on tightly controlled mechanisms such as secure software instructions or hardware exceptions. The context of the currently running virtual processor is saved the context of the virtual processor being switched to is restored and processing is restarted in the restored virtual processor. Time sliced execution protects the trusted security zone by stopping the execution of the normal partition while the secure partition is executing.

The two virtual processors context switch via a processor mode called monitor mode when changing the currently running virtual processor. The mechanisms by which the processor can enter monitor mode from the normal partition are tightly controlled. The entry to monitor mode can be triggered by software executing a dedicated instruction the Secure Monitor Call SMC instruction or by a subset of the hardware exception mechanisms such as hardware interrupts which can be configured to cause the processor to switch into monitor mode. The software that executes within monitor mode then saves the context of the running virtual processor and switches to the secure virtual processor.

The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system that is not accessible to the device users. For security purposes the trusted security zone is not open to users for installing applications which means users do not have access to install applications in the trusted security zone. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from executing powerful instructions reserved to the trusted security zone and thus preserves the trust of the device. The security of the system is achieved at least in part by partitioning the hardware and software resources of the mobile phone so they exist in one of two partitions the secure partition for the security subsystem and the normal partition for everything else. Placing the trusted security zone in the secure partition and restricting access from the normal partition protects against software and basic hardware attacks. Hardware logic ensures that no secure partition resources can be accessed by the normal partition components or applications. A dedicated secure partition operating system runs in a virtual processor separate from the normal partition operating system that likewise executes in its own virtual processor. Users may install applications on the mobile device which may execute in the normal partition operating system described above. The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system for the secure partition that is installed by the mobile device manufacturer or vendor and users are not able to install new applications in or alter the contents of the trusted security zone.

Turning now to a communication system is described. In an embodiment the system comprises a mobile device a base transceiver station BTS a network and a trusted server . The base transceiver station and the trusted server are communicatively coupled to the network . The base transceiver station provides a wireless communication link to couple the mobile device to the network . While a single base transceiver station is shown in it is understood that the system may comprise any number of base transceiver stations and any number of mobile devices . The trusted server may be a computer system. Computer systems are described further hereinafter.

The base transceiver station and the mobile device may communicate over a wireless link according to one or more of a code division multiple access CDMA wireless protocol a global system for mobile communication GSM wireless protocol a long term evolution LTE wireless protocol a worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX wireless protocol or another wireless protocol. The network may comprise one or more private networks one or more public networks or a combination thereof. The mobile device may access the trusted server via the base transceiver station and the network to download a trusted application from a trusted application repository maintained by the trusted server . In an embodiment the system may comprise an access terminal that is communicatively coupled to the network via one or more wired communication links. The access terminal may share many of the trust related features of the mobile device that will be discussed further below.

In an embodiment the mobile device comprises a radio transceiver a memory having a trusted partition and a first mobile device trusted security zone . Under some conditions to be discussed further below the mobile device may dynamically establish a second mobile device trusted security zone for example executing in a virtual processor of the mobile device allocated for the second mobile device trusted security zone . Alternatively in an embodiment the mobile device may have a plurality of pre configured or statically configured trusted security zones . The radio transceiver may collaborate with the base transceiver station to establish a wireless communication link between the mobile device and the base transceiver station . The mobile device may comprise a mobile phone a personal digital assistant a media player a radio frequency wireless enabled laptop computer a radio frequency wireless enabled notebook computer a wireless enabled tablet computer or other electronic device enabled to conduct mobile radio frequency communication.

The trusted server may comprise a server trusted security zone a memory and an application . In some contexts the trusted server may be referred to as a trusted application marketplace or may be said to provide a trusted application marketplace. The application may execute in the server trusted security zone . A developer of trusted applications for example a trusted source may send a trusted application to the trusted server for uploading to the trusted application repository as trusted application . In an embodiment the trusted source may be a computer system. The trusted application may be free software or a free application that the developer has developed and is donating to the public. Alternatively the trusted application may be a premium application that the trusted source may be paid for providing by the operator of the trusted server for example the proprietor of a trusted application marketplace or may be paid for by the user of the mobile device .

The application executing in the server trusted security zone may receive the trusted application sent by the trusted source along with one or more trust credentials. The trust credentials may include one or more trust tokens confirming the trusted sending of the trusted application from the trusted source to the server for example the sending of the trusted application over a trusted end to end communication link. The trust tokens may also include one or more tokens confirming that the trusted server sent the trusted application when executing in the server trusted security zone . Additional trust tokens may be accumulated as the trusted application transits a trusted end to end communication link for example a trust token may be contributed by the trusted security zone of each transited network node in the trusted end to end communication link. The trust credentials may further include information about the handling of the trusted application by the trusted source and the handling by the trusted server for example storing the trusted application in the trusted application repository and permitting no access to the trusted application repository except to an application executing in the server trusted security zone .

In an embodiment the trusted source executes the communication application used to send the trusted application to the trusted server in a trusted source trusted security zone . The information in the trust token and or trust credentials may establish that the communication encapsulating the trusted application was generated by a communication application executing in the trusted source trusted security zone of the trusted source .

The application executing in the server trusted security zone may inspect or verify the trust credentials transmitted with the trusted application by the trusted source . The application inspecting or verifying the trust credentials may comprise comparing the trust credentials and or trust tokens to a predefined trust criterion. If the application can confirm based on analyzing the trust credentials that the trusted application is accompanied by any desired trust credentials and or that the trust credentials and or trust tokens satisfy the predefined trust criterion the application may store the trusted application in the trusted application repository as trusted application . For further details concerning trusted end to end communication links see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 532 588 filed Jun. 25 2012 End to End Trusted Communication Infrastructure by Leo Michael McRoberts et al. which was incorporated by reference above. If the application does not confirm that the trusted application is accompanied by the desired trust credentials the application may discard or erase the trusted application . In this case the application may send a notification or explanatory message to the trusted source .

In an embodiment a register of trusted sources may be maintained and applications may not be accepted for uploading to the trusted application repository from sources that are not registered as trusted sources. Becoming registered as a trusted source may involve one or more of certifying a trusted application development process certifying a trusted application configuration control process a certification of an application developer employee scrutiny process and other verifications. The register of trusted sources may be maintained by a disinterested party that is not engaged in distributing and or marketing trusted applications to end users.

In an embodiment access to the trusted application repository may be restricted to an application for example application executing in the server trusted security zone or another trusted security zone of the trusted server . The trusted application repository may comprise a data store or a plurality of data stores. In an embodiment the trusted application repository may comprise one or more data base servers that mediate access to mass storage containing the trusted applications. In an embodiment the data base server or servers may handle requests from the application to access a data base in a trusted security zone of the subject server or servers. In an embodiment the trust tokens and or the trust credentials may comprise information that provides a record of the handling and or the development of the trusted application that promotes establishing that the trusted application was developed stored and or tested according to documented procedures that maintain the integrity of the trusted application

The mobile device may request to download the trusted application from the trusted server . The mobile device may build a request for the trusted application and send the request for the trusted application while executing in the first mobile device trusted security zone . The mobile device may complete a payment transaction session with the trusted server . Alternatively the trusted application may be free in which case no payment transaction session may occur. The payment transaction may be performed before the trusted application is sent to the mobile device or after the trusted application has been validated as described further below. The request sent by the mobile device may comprise an identification of the trusted application that is requested as well as one or more trust tokens. The request may be sent by the mobile device over a trusted end to end communication link and the request may accumulate additional trust tokens in passing through one or more trusted security zones of communication nodes that compose the trusted end to end communication link.

The application executing in the server trusted security zone of the trusted server handles the request to download the trusted application sent by the mobile device . The application may verify or inspect the trust tokens that are carried with the request from the mobile device . For example the application may verify that the download request was sent from a trusted security zone for example from the first mobile device trusted security zone of the mobile device . The application may further verify based on analyzing the trust tokens that the mobile device has not been rooted or otherwise compromised. One skilled in the art appreciates that the term rooted and or rooting a mobile device may refer to obtaining privileged control access to powerful operating system commands that may promote alteration or replacement of settings and or security features of the mobile device. If verification succeeds the application retrieves the trusted application from the trusted application repository builds one or more trust credentials associated with the handling of the trusted application and sends the trusted application and trust credentials to the mobile device over a trusted end to end communication link.

The trusted application and trust credentials received by the mobile device may be received by the first mobile device trusted security zone and initially stored in the second mobile device trusted security zone to promote inspection of this information in a separate trusted security zone where any malware present in the trusted application may not readily cause harm to the first mobile device trusted security zone . In some contexts the second mobile device trusted security zone may be referred to or considered as a sacrificial trusted security zone. In an embodiment the second mobile device trusted security zone may be constructed and or allocated on the fly when a trusted application is requested to be downloaded. For example when a requested trusted application is received the mobile device may allocate the second mobile device trusted security zone in a virtual processor of the mobile device . As is known to those of skill in the art when using virtualization execution tools a virtual processor may be constructed and or allocated on the fly and a process may be launched to execute in this virtual processor. When the second mobile device trusted security zone has completed inspection of the trusted application and the trust credentials the trusted application may be stored in the memory and or in the trusted memory partition and the second mobile device trusted security zone may be destroyed. Alternatively the second mobile device trusted security zone may be erased. Alternatively the second mobile device trusted security zone may remain on the mobile device .

The trusted application may be stored as encrypted content . After the trusted application is decrypted it may be stored as decrypted content . The decrypted content may be inspected and or tested according to inspection strategies .

The second mobile device trusted security zone may compare the trust credentials and or trust credentials received to a predefined trust criterion. If the predefined trust criterion is not satisfied the second mobile device trusted security zone discards the trusted application. The second mobile device trusted security zone may perform a checksum over the trusted application and compare this to a checksum provided with the trusted application or the trust credentials. If the calculated checksum does not compare to the downloaded checksum the second mobile device trusted security zone may discard or delete the trusted application . The second mobile device trusted security zone may present a message on a display of the mobile device indicating that the trusted application failed inspection and possibly indicating the nature of the failure. Alternatively a cyclic redundancy check may be calculated over the trusted application and compared to a downloaded cyclic redundancy check number and the trusted application may be discarded if the numbers do not compare. The second mobile device trusted security zone may perform a virus scan of the trusted application . If a virus is detected by the virus scan the second mobile device trusted security zone may discard the trusted application and or present a notification on a display of the mobile device .

In an embodiment the trusted application may be accompanied by a manifest or other document that enumerates the system resources that the trusted application will attempt to use. The manifest may indicate if the trusted application will attempt to access the network to write to the memory to write over other applications to send email and other functions. In an embodiment the manifest along with a checksum or CRC may be transmitted in an encrypted form. The manifest and the checksum or CRC may be decrypted and its integrity verified by calculating a checksum or CRC over the manifest and comparing to the checksum or CRC transmitted with the manifest. The second mobile device trusted security zone may execute the trusted application while monitoring the resources the trusted application in fact attempts to use. If the trusted application attempts to use any resources that are not identified in the manifest the trusted application may be deemed to fail inspection and be discarded and or deleted. The trusted application may be inspected and tested according to inspection strategies . The inspection strategies may be stored in the trusted partition and copied to the second mobile device trusted security zone when it is dynamically created. Alternatively the inspection strategies may be downloaded with the trusted application from the trusted server . In an embodiment the inspection strategies may be defined by the trusted source and or the developer of the trusted application

If the trusted application passes inspection the second mobile device trusted security zone may copy the trusted application to the memory and or to the trusted memory partition . In an embodiment a checksum or a cyclic redundancy check number associated with the trusted application may be stored in the trusted memory partition . This may permit verifying the integrity of the trusted application that may be stored in the memory before executing the trusted application by recalculating the checksum or the cyclic redundancy check number over the trusted application and comparing to the stored checksum or cyclic redundancy number. In an embodiment the second mobile device trusted security zone may store a data segment of the trusted application in the trusted partition of the memory . As is known to those skilled in the art an application and or computer program stored in memory may be segregated into an executable instructions segment or code segment a data segment and possibly a stack. The data segment may comprise one or more of global variables static variables uninitialized data also known as BSS segment and a heap area. It may be that in some trusted applications the data segment may comprise some confidential information that it is desired to maintain in confidence for example personal data and or financial data. In an embodiment the entirety of the trusted application may be stored in the trusted memory partition .

The first mobile device trusted security zone the second mobile device trusted security zone the server trusted security zone and the trusted source trusted security zone may be substantially similar to trusted security zones. The trusted security zones may differ from each other in size in memory allocation in software that each may store in duration in time but each is similar in providing what may be conceptualized as hardware assisted security as described before the introduction of above.

Turning now to further details of an embodiment of the mobile device are described. In an embodiment the mobile device may comprise a normal security zone that executes a browser and a trusted security zone that executes a browser plug in . When the browser receives a requested document that is designated as a trusted document or as trusted content the browser may invoke the browser plug in to handle the trusted document without the browser further processing the trusted document. In an embodiment the trusted status of the trusted document may be indicated in a document header that can be read without reading or accessing any of the trusted document. Alternatively the trusted status of the trusted document may be indicated in another way. In an embodiment the trusted status of the trusted document may be indicated by a handshaking session that precedes the downloading of the subject trusted document. It is understood that the browser plug in may be configured to interoperate with a plurality of different browsers . It is known that different users of mobile device may prefer to install and use different browsers to access and use content.

While the browser plug in executes in the trusted security zone other applications are prevented from executing and are prevented from accessing memory and or other interfaces of the mobile device . This may prevent malware encapsulated in these other applications from monitoring and or spying on the inputs or outputs of the interfaces and also from writing to the interfaces. The browser plug in may present information on a display of the mobile device for example confidential medical information such as medical records diagnostic imaging diagnostic test results medical treatment regimens and the like. The browser plug in may determine that an input form is contained in the trusted content and is provided for a user to input confidential information for example personal information and or financial information. The browser plug in may save the portion of the trusted document in the trusted memory partition . As inputs are received from the interfaces of the mobile device the browser plug in populates the input into the form portion of the trusted content. In an embodiment the browser plug in may encrypt the filled in form information and provide the encrypted document portion back to the browser and the browser may send the document encapsulating the encrypted document portion back to a server coupled to the network for example an electronic commerce web site or a medical services web site.

Turning now to a method is described. At block a mobile device sends a request for a trusted content to the trusted server wherein the mobile device comprises a first mobile device trusted security zone and builds the request while executing in the first mobile device trusted security zone and wherein the server comprises a server trusted security zone and handles the request for the trusted content at least partly in the server trusted security zone. At block the trusted content is received by the first mobile device trusted security zone of the mobile device. At block the trusted content is stored in a second mobile device trusted security zone of the mobile device. At block the trusted content is inspected in the second mobile device trusted security zone. At block when the trusted content passes inspection at least a portion of the trusted content is executed by the first mobile device trusted security zone or at least a portion of the trusted content is presented by the first mobile device trusted security zone.

Turning now to a method is described. At block content is received wherein the content designates a trusted execution status. In an embodiment the content comprises a hypertext markup language HTML document or an extensible markup language XML document. At block based on the designation for trusted execution a browser plug in is executed in a trusted security zone wherein when the browser plug in executes in the trusted security zone applications are prevented from executing in the normal security zone. At block a form content is translated to a trusted form content by the browser plug in. At block the trusted form is presented on a display by the browser plug in. At block user input directed to the trusted form is received from a user interface by the browser plug in. At block the user input is transmitted to complete a confidential transaction. It is understood that the descriptions of the methods and systems for trusted access to applications and to content may also apply with appropriate modifications to the access terminal for example taking into account that the access terminal does not have a radio transceiver and is coupled to the network via a wired connection instead of via a wireless communication link via the base transceiver station .

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD . The GPS receiver is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable storage media and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data structures executable instructions and other computer usable program code. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . Alternatively the processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures by remotely accessing the computer program product for example by downloading the executable instructions and or data structures from a remote server through the network connectivity devices . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

In some contexts the secondary storage the ROM and the RAM may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium or a computer readable storage media. A dynamic RAM embodiment of the RAM likewise may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power and is operated in accordance with its design for example during a period of time during which the computer is turned on and operational the dynamic RAM stores information that is written to it. Similarly the processor may comprise an internal RAM an internal ROM a cache memory and or other internal non transitory storage blocks sections or components that may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

