---

title: System and methods for trusted internet domain networking
abstract: A method of performing a trusted dynamic host configuration protocol (DHCPT). The method comprises receiving a trusted dynamic host configuration protocol request message, wherein the request message was created in and transmitted from a trusted security zone of a computing device, and wherein the request message requests an internet protocol (IP) address and routing information for the computing device, allocating an internet protocol address and determining routing information for the computing device, wherein the allocating and determining are performed by a dynamic host configuration protocol server while executing in a trusted security zone of the server, and transmitting the internet protocol address and routing information to the computing device over a trusted end-to-end communication link.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08752140&OS=08752140&RS=08752140
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 08752140
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120911
---
Computers may communicate based on network routing protocols such as the internet protocol IP . A computer may connect to the Internet by first requesting that a dynamic address be provided to the computer for example a dynamic internet protocol address or IP address. The computer may request content based on an address for example an IP address of a content server. Because human beings do not readily memorize and or key in long strings of numbers the content server may be identified by a domain name and a domain name system DNS server may automatically translate this domain name to an IP address. The request for content may then be carried out using the IP address.

In an embodiment a method of performing a trusted dynamic host configuration protocol DHCPT is disclosed. The method comprises receiving a trusted dynamic host configuration protocol request message wherein the request message was created in and transmitted from a trusted security zone of a computing device and wherein the request message requests an internet protocol IP address and routing information for the computing device allocating an internet protocol address and determining routing information for the computing device wherein the allocating and determining are performed by a dynamic host configuration protocol server while executing in a trusted security zone of the server and transmitting the internet protocol address and routing information to the computing device over a trusted end to end communication link.

In an embodiment a method of performing a trusted dynamic host configuration protocol DHCPT is disclosed. The method comprises receiving a trusted dynamic host configuration protocol request message wherein the request message was created in and transmitted from a trusted security zone of a computing device and wherein the request message requests a trusted internet protocol IP address and trusted internet domain routing information for the computing device allocating a trusted internet protocol address and determining trusted internet domain routing information for the computing device wherein the allocating and determining are performed by a dynamic host configuration protocol server while executing in a trusted security zone of the server and transmitting the trusted internet protocol address and trusted internet domain routing information to the computing device over a trusted end to end communication link. The trusted internet protocol address is one of a plurality of trusted internet protocol addresses that are not accessible to computing devices that are not coupled to a trusted internet domain and the trusted internet domain routing information comprises trusted internet protocol addresses of trusted network nodes that promote routing in the trusted internet domain.

In an embodiment a method of translating a domain name to an internet protocol address of a trusted host is disclosed. The method comprises receiving a translation request message requesting translation of a domain name that is associated with a trusted host to an internet protocol address wherein the host provides at least of one of trusted services or trusted access to content verifying that the translation request message was sent via a trusted end to end communication link translating the domain name to an internet protocol address of the trusted host and transmitting the internet protocol address of the trusted host over a trusted end to end communication link. Verifying translating and transmitting are performed by a domain name system DNS server executing in a trusted security zone.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or not yet in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

Systems and methods for conducting trusted internetworking are described herein. A trusted dynamic host configuration protocol DHCPT server is described that reduces the risks of a fraudulent dynamic host configuration protocol DHCP server sending an unsuspecting host or mobile device that has requested an IP address and routing information to spurious hosts or servers as well as reduces the risk of unauthorized clients getting access to an Internet or subnet that they should not access. The trusted dynamic host configuration protocol server may receive a request from a host for example a desktop computer or a mobile device for an IP address and routing information. The trusted dynamic host configuration protocol server may send back a message to the requesting host asking if the host can participate in a trusted session. If the requesting host or mobile device replies with a request for an IP address and routing information in a trusted mode the trusted dynamic host configuration protocol server completes the request using a trusted session otherwise the dynamic host configuration protocol server completes the request using a normal session.

In an embodiment a host having a trusted security zone may send the request message while executing in its trusted security zone and associate a trust token with the request message. The trusted dynamic host configuration protocol server examines one or more trust tokens that may be associated with the request message to confirm a continuity of trust of the request message. A continuity of trust may be provided by transporting handling and or processing the subject message only by applications executing in trusted security zones of one or more computer platforms and or network nodes. The continuity of trust of the request message may be provided by transmitting the request message via a trusted end to end communication link. For further details about establishing trusted end to end communication links see U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 532 588 filed Jun. 25 2012 entitled End to end Trusted Communications Infrastructure by Michael McRoberts et al. which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

If the continuity of trust is confirmed the trusted dynamic host configuration protocol server determines an appropriate IP address and routing information for the requesting host and transmits this information back to the requesting host in a response message. The trusted dynamic host configuration protocol server executes these actions in its own trusted security zone and associates a trust token with the response message. The requesting host executing in its trusted security zone examines one or more trust tokens that may be associated with the response message to confirm a continuity of trust of the response message. Trusted security zones will be discussed further hereinafter. In an embodiment the IP address returned by the trusted dynamic host configuration protocol server is a trusted IP address where the trusted IP address is one of a plurality of trusted IP addresses that are hidden from or are otherwise not accessible to computing devices and or hosts that are not coupled to a trusted internet domain

A trusted domain name system DNST server is described that reduces risks associated with domain name translations provided by a possibly corrupted domain name system server. In an embodiment the trusted domain name system server receives a translation request message that is sent by a host executing in a trusted security zone of the host. The trusted domain name system server performs the requested translation and transmits the translation response to the requesting host while executing in a trusted security zone of the trusted domain name system server. The requesting host receives the translation response while executing in the trusted security zone of the host. The trusted domain name system server may receive messages defining new translation mappings. In an embodiment the trusted domain name system server may distinguish between trusted translation mappings that are associated with a trusted end point and normal translation mappings that are associated with a normal end point. The trusted translation mappings are processed by the trusted domain name system server while executing in a trusted security zone of the server.

In an embodiment the translation request may be transmitted by the requesting host to the trusted domain name system server over a trusted end to end communication link. The requesting host may create and associate a trust token with the translation request message. The trusted domain name system server examines one or more trust tokens associated with the request message to validate a continuity of trust of the translation request message. The continuity of trust may be provided by the requesting host transmitting the translation request message over a trusted end to end communication link. If the continuity of trust is confirmed the domain name system server performs the requested translation builds the translation response message builds a trust token and sends the translation response message and associated trust token to the requesting host while the server executes in its trusted security zone. The requesting host examines one or more trust tokens associated with the translation response message to validate the continuity of trust of the translation response message.

In an embodiment a trusted domain name system server may process both normal translation requests and trusted translation requests. Alternatively in an embodiment a trusted domain name system may process only trusted translation requests sent by requesting hosts executing in their trusted security zones and sent via a trusted end to end communication link. In an embodiment the trusted domain system server may provide translations of domain names to trusted internet protocol addresses. The present disclosure contemplates the trusted domain name system servers promoting a new set of top level domain names and or category of domain names that are trusted. These trusted top level domain names may have identifiers such as .tgov .tcom .tedu .tnet .tru and other such domain identifiers each of which incorporate the letter t to designate their trusted property. It is understood that domain names in the top level domains such as .tgov .tcom .tedu .tnet .tru would translate to trusted IP addresses.

A trusted security zone provides chipsets with a hardware root of trust a secure execution environment for applications and secure access to peripherals. A hardware root of trust means the chipset should only execute programs intended by the device manufacturer or vendor and resists software and physical attacks and therefore remains trusted to provide the intended level of security. The chipset architecture is designed to promote a programmable environment that allows the confidentiality and integrity of assets to be protected from specific attacks. Trusted security zone capabilities are becoming features in both wireless and fixed hardware architecture designs for example both in mobile devices and in desktop computers. Providing the trusted security zone in the device chipset and protecting the hardware root of trust removes the need for separate secure hardware to authenticate the device or user. To ensure the integrity of the applications requiring trusted data such as a mobile financial services application the trusted security zone also provides the secure execution environment where only trusted applications can operate safe from attacks. Security is further promoted by restricting access of non trusted applications to peripherals such as data inputs and data outputs while a trusted application is running in the secure execution environment. In an embodiment the trusted security zone may be conceptualized as hardware assisted security.

A complete trusted execution environment TEE may be implemented through the use of the trusted security zone hardware and software architecture. The trusted execution environment is an execution environment that is parallel to the execution environment of the device s normal operating system. The trusted execution environment and or the trusted security zone may provide a base layer of functionality and or utilities for use of applications that may execute in the trusted security zone. For example in an embodiment trust tokens may be generated by the base layer of functionality and or utilities of the trusted execution environment and or trusted security zone for use in trusted end to end communication links to document a continuity of trust of the communications. Through standardization of application programming interfaces APIs the trusted execution environment becomes a place to which scalable deployment of secure services can be targeted. A device which has a chipset that has a trusted execution environment on it may exist in a trusted services environment where devices in the trusted services environment are trusted and protected against attacks. The trusted execution environment can be implemented on mobile phones laptops and tablets as well as extending to other trusted devices such as desktop personal computers servers sensors medical devices point of sale terminals machine to machine M2M communication devices industrial automation handheld terminals automotive etc.

The trusted security zone is implemented by partitioning all of the hardware and software resources of the device into two partitions a secure partition and a normal partition. Placing sensitive resources in the secure partition can protect against possible attacks on those resources. For example resources such as trusted software applications may run in the secure partition and have access to hardware peripherals such as a touchscreen or a secure location in memory. Less secure peripherals such as wireless radios may be disabled completely while the secure partition is being accessed while other peripherals may only be accessed from the secure partition. While the secure partition is being accessed through the trusted execution environment the device s normal operating system that executes in the normal partition is suspended and applications in the normal partition are prevented from accessing the secure peripherals and data. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from breaking the trust of the device.

The trusted security zone is implemented by partitioning the hardware and software resources to exist in a secure subsystem which is not accessible to components outside the secure subsystem. The trusted security zone is built into the processor architecture at the time of manufacture through hardware logic present in the trusted security zone which enables a perimeter boundary between the secure partition and the normal partition. The trusted security zone may only be manipulated by those with the proper credential and in an embodiment may not be added to the chip after it is manufactured. Software architecture to support the secure partition may be provided through a dedicated secure kernel running trusted applications. Trusted applications are independent secure applications which can be accessed by normal applications through an application programming interface in the trusted execution environment on a chipset that utilizes the trusted security zone.

In an embodiment the normal partition applications run on a first virtual processor and the secure partition applications run on a second virtual processor. Both virtual processors may run on a single physical processor executing in a time sliced fashion removing the need for a dedicated physical security processor. Time sliced execution comprises switching contexts between the two virtual processors to share processor resources based on tightly controlled mechanisms such as secure software instructions or hardware exceptions. The context of the currently running virtual processor is saved the context of the virtual processor being switched to is restored and processing is restarted in the restored virtual processor. Time sliced execution protects the trusted security zone by stopping the execution of the normal partition while the secure partition is executing.

The two virtual processors context switch via a processor mode called monitor mode when changing the currently running virtual processor. The mechanisms by which the processor can enter monitor mode from the normal partition are tightly controlled. The entry to monitor mode can be triggered by software executing a dedicated instruction the Secure Monitor Call SMC instruction or by a subset of the hardware exception mechanisms such as hardware interrupts which can be configured to cause the processor to switch into monitor mode. The software that executes within monitor mode then saves the context of the running virtual processor and switches to the secure virtual processor.

The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system which may be referred to in some contexts as the trusted operating system that is not accessible to the device users. For security purposes the trusted security zone is not open to users for installing applications which means users do not have access to install applications in the trusted security zone. This prevents corrupted applications or malware applications from executing powerful instructions reserved to the trusted security zone and thus preserves the trust of the device. The security of the system is achieved at least in part by partitioning the hardware and software resources of the mobile phone so they exist in one of two partitions the secure partition for the security subsystem and the normal partition for everything else. Placing the trusted security zone in the secure partition and restricting access from the normal partition protects against software and basic hardware attacks. Hardware logic ensures that no secure partition resources can be accessed by the normal partition components or applications. A dedicated secure partition operating system which may also be referred to as a trusted operating system runs in a virtual processor separate from the normal partition operating system that likewise executes in its own virtual processor. Users may install applications on the device that may execute in the normal partition operating system described above. The trusted security zone runs a separate operating system which may also be referred to as a trusted operating system for the secure partition that is installed by the device manufacturer or vendor and users are not able to install new applications in or alter the contents of the trusted security zone.

Turning now to a communication system is described. In an embodiment system comprises a mobile device a base transceiver station a host computer a network a trusted dynamic host configuration protocol DHCPT server a trusted content server a data store and a trusted domain name system DNST server . The mobile device comprises a radio transceiver and a first trusted security zone . The mobile device may be a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a media player a laptop computer a tablet computer a notebook computer or other electronic device having a radio communication capability. Structures and architectures for implementing mobile devices are discussed in more detail herein after. The host comprises a second trusted security zone . The host may be a desktop computer or some other computing device that has a wired connection to the network . Computers are discussed in more detail herein after.

The base transceiver station provides a wireless communication link to the mobile device according to at least one of a code division multiple access CDMA a global system for mobile communication GSM a long term evolution LTE a worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX or another wireless communication protocol. In an embodiment the base transceiver station may be a femtocell. The base transceiver station couples the mobile device to the network . Alternatively in an embodiment the mobile device may be coupled to the network by a wireless access point for example a WiFi wireless access point or a Bluetooth access point.

It is understood that the system may comprise any number of mobile devices base transceiver stations wireless access points hosts trusted dynamic host configuration protocol servers trusted content servers data stores and trusted domain name system servers . Also it is understood that the communication system may not comprise each of the mobile device the host the trusted dynamic host configuration protocol server the trusted content server and the trusted domain name system server . For example in an embodiment the system may not have a trusted domain name system server . For example in an embodiment the system may not have a trusted dynamic host configuration protocol server . For example in an embodiment the system may not have a trusted content server .

The trusted dynamic host configuration protocol server comprises a third trusted security zone . In an embodiment the trusted dynamic host configuration protocol server provides normal and trusted dynamic host configuration protocol functionality. Alternatively the trusted dynamic host configuration protocol server provides only trusted dynamic host configuration protocol functionality. When the mobile device sends a request message from a dynamic host configuration protocol client to the trusted dynamic host configuration protocol server the trusted dynamic host configuration protocol server may query whether the mobile device wishes to complete the dynamic host configuration protocol function as a trusted client.

If the mobile device comprises a trusted dynamic host configuration protocol client and the mobile device wishes it may execute at least a portion of the dynamic host configuration protocol client in the first trusted security zone . The first trusted security zone and or the dynamic host configuration protocol client creates a request message and a trust token and sends the request message and trust token to the trusted dynamic host configuration protocol server .

The trusted dynamic host configuration protocol server examines one or more trust tokens that are received with the request message to confirm a continuity of trust. If the continuity of trust is confirmed the trusted dynamic host configuration server allocates an internet protocol address for use by the mobile device and determines routing information for the mobile device builds a response message comprising the internet protocol address for use by the mobile device and the routing information builds a trust token and sends the response message and the trust token to the mobile device . The routing information may comprise one or more internet protocol addresses of domain name system servers and other network nodes that provide services related to network routing. In an embodiment the internet protocol address for use by the mobile device returned in the response message may be a trusted internet protocol address. In an embodiment the routing information may comprise one or more trusted internet protocol addresses of trusted domain name system servers for example the domain name system server . These operations by the trusted dynamic host configuration server are performed while executing in the third trusted zone .

After receiving the response message the first trusted security zone and or the trusted dynamic host configuration protocol client examines one or more trust tokens that are received with the response message to confirm a continuity of trust. If the continuity of trust is confirmed the trusted dynamic host configuration protocol client configures the mobile device appropriately with the internet protocol address and the routing information received in the reply message.

The interaction between the mobile device and the trusted dynamic host configuration protocol server may be conducted in a substantially similar manner between the host and the trusted dynamic host configuration protocol server . If the host comprises a second trusted dynamic host configuration protocol client and the host wishes it may execute at least a portion of the dynamic host configuration protocol client in the second trusted security zone . The second trusted security zone and or the second dynamic host configuration protocol client creates a request message and a trust token and sends the request message and trust token to the trusted dynamic host configuration protocol server .

In an embodiment the trusted content server has a fourth trusted security zone and a trusted internet protocol address and is only accessible from a mobile device or a host that is likewise configured with a trusted internet protocol address. The mobile device may create a content request message while executing in the first trusted zone create a trust token and send the content request message and trust token over a trusted end to end communication link to the trusted content server . The trusted content server while executing in the fourth trusted security zone receives the content request message and one or more trust tokens and confirms the trust continuity of the content request message. If the trust continuity is confirmed the trusted content server while executing in the fourth trusted security zone retrieves the requested content from the data store creates a trust token and sends a content response message and the trust token over a trusted end to end communication link to the mobile device where the content response message may comprise the requested content. The mobile device receives the content response message and one or more trust tokens and analyzes the trust token or trust tokens to confirm the trust continuity of the content response. If the trust continuity is confirmed the mobile device consumes the trusted content. The actions performed by the mobile device and by the trusted content server described above are performed at least in part in the first trusted security zone and the fourth trusted security zone .

In an embodiment trusted domain name system server comprises a fifth trusted security zone and translates both domain names to standard internet protocol addresses and trusted domain names to trusted internet protocol addresses. When the trusted domain name system server receives a translation request for a domain name that maps to a trusted internet protocol address the trusted domain name system server conducts the translation in a trusted manner. The mobile device may then execute in the first trusted security zone build a translation request message and a trust token and send the translation request message and the trust token to the trusted domain name system server via a trusted end to end communication link.

The trusted domain name system server executing in the fifth trusted security zone receives the translation request message and one or more trust tokens and examines the one or more trust tokens to confirm a continuity of trust of the translation request message. If the continuity of trust is confirmed the trusted domain name server while executing in the fifth trusted security zone translates the domain name to a trusted internet protocol address builds a translation response message containing the trusted internet protocol address and a trust token and sends the translation response message and trust token to the mobile device over a trusted end to end communication link. The mobile device executing in the first trusted security zone receives the translation response message and one or more trust tokens and examines the one or more trust tokens to confirm a continuity of trust of the translation response message. If the continuity of trust is confirmed the mobile device consumes the trusted internet protocol address for example to request trusted content from the trusted content server or some other action. The trusted domain name system server may receive requests to add or change domain name system translations. In an embodiment the trusted domain name system server accepts requests to add or change domain name system translations only from devices executing in a trusted security zone and when received over a trusted end to end communication link.

In an embodiment the trusted domain name system server may handle only translations of trusted domain names for example names that are associated with trusted top level domains such as .tgov .tcom .tedu .tnet .tru and other such domain identifiers each of which incorporate the letter t to designate their trusted property. The internet protocol addresses associated with trusted top level domains may be trusted internet protocol addresses.

Turning now to a method is described. In an embodiment the method may be performed by a trusted dynamic host configuration protocol server. At block receive a trusted dynamic host configuration protocol request message wherein the request message was created in and transmitted from a trusted security zone of a computing device and wherein the request message requests an internet protocol address and routing information for the computing device. The processing of block may further comprise confirming a continuity of trust of the request message as described further above. The processing of block may be performed while executing at least in part in a trusted security zone for example a trusted security zone of a dynamic host configuration protocol server. At block allocate an internet protocol address and determine routing information for the computing device. The allocating and determining processing of block may be performed while executing in a trusted security zone for example a trusted security zone of a dynamic host configuration protocol server. At block transmit the internet protocol address and routing information to the computing device over a trusted end to end communication link. In an embodiment the internet protocol address may be a trusted internet protocol address and some of the routing information may comprise trusted internet protocol addresses for example a trusted internet protocol address of one or more trusted domain name system servers. It is understood that the computing platform that executes method may also perform normal or untrusted dynamic host configuration protocol operations when interworking with some mobile devices and or host computers that may not have a trusted security zone. In an embodiment the processing of block may be performed while executing in a trusted security zone.

Turning now to a method is described. In an embodiment the method may be performed by a trusted dynamic host configuration protocol server. At block receive a trusted dynamic host configuration protocol request message wherein the request message was created in and transmitted from a trusted security zone of a computing device and wherein the request message requests a trusted internet protocol address and trusted internet domain routing information for the computing device. The processing of block may be performed while executing at least in part in a trusted security zone for example a trusted security zone of a dynamic host configuration protocol server. At block allocate a trusted internet protocol address and determine trusted internet domain routing information for the computing device. The allocating and determining processing of block may be performed while executing in a trusted security zone for example a trusted security zone of a dynamic host configuration protocol server. At block transmit the trusted internet protocol address and trusted internet domain routing information to the computing device over a trusted end to end communication link. The processing of block may be performed while executing at least in part in a trusted security zone for example a trusted security zone of a dynamic host configuration protocol server. The trusted internet protocol address is one of a plurality of trusted internet protocol addresses that are not accessible to computing devices that are not coupled to a trusted internet domain and the trusted internet domain routing information comprises trusted internet protocol addresses of trusted network nodes that promote routing in the trusted internet domain for example a trusted domain name system server. In an embodiment each of a plurality of hosts and or mobile devices coupled to the trusted internet domain is configured with a trusted internet protocol address. The trusted internet protocol addresses may not be numerically adjacent to each other.

Turning now to a method is described. At block receive a translation request message requesting translation of a domain name that is associated with a trusted host to an internet protocol address wherein the host provides at least of one of trusted services or trusted access to content. At block verify that the translation request message was sent via a trusted end to end communication link. At block translate the domain name to an internet protocol address of the trusted host. At block transmit the internet protocol address of the trusted host over a trusted end to end communication link where verifying translating and transmitting are performed by a domain name system server executing in a trusted security zone. In an embodiment the internet address of the trusted host is a trusted internet protocol address. It is understood that the method may be performed by a domain name system server that also performs domain name to internet protocol translations sent by mobile devices and or host computers that are not executing in a trusted security zone and hence comprise normal and or untrusted domain name translation requests.

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD . The GPS receiver is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as computer readable storage media and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with the Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein to implement the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data structures executable instructions and other computer usable program code. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . Alternatively the processor may process the executable instructions and or data structures by remotely accessing the computer program product for example by downloading the executable instructions and or data structures from a remote server through the network connectivity devices . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

In some contexts the secondary storage the ROM and the RAM may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium or a computer readable storage media. A dynamic RAM embodiment of the RAM likewise may be referred to as a non transitory computer readable medium in that while the dynamic RAM receives electrical power and is operated in accordance with its design for example during a period of time during which the computer is turned on and operational the dynamic RAM stores information that is written to it. Similarly the processor may comprise an internal RAM an internal ROM a cache memory and or other internal non transitory storage blocks sections or components that may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory computer readable media or computer readable storage media.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

