---

title: Isotopic abundance in atom trap trace analysis
abstract: A method and system for detecting ratios and amounts of isotopes of noble gases. The method and system is constructed to be able to measure noble gas isotopes in water and ice, which helps reveal the geological age of the samples and understand their movements. The method and system uses a combination of a cooled discharge source, a beam collimator, a beam slower and magneto-optic trap with a laser to apply resonance frequency energy to the noble gas to be quenched and detected.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08674289&OS=08674289&RS=08674289
owner: UChicago Argonne LLC
number: 08674289
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120216
---
The United States government has rights in the invention described herein pursuant to Contract No. DE ACO2 06CH11357 between the United States Department of Energy and UChicago Argonne LLC as operator of Argonne National Laboratory and by National Science Foundation Division of Earth Sciences under Award No. EAR 0651161.

The invention relates to methods and systems for detecting selected isotopes of all noble gases. More particularly the invention is directed to methods and systems for performing atomic counting based on the atom trap trace analysis method ATTA to measure ratios of Kr Kr and Kr Kr in environmental samples.

Krypton permeates through the atmosphere at a concentration of about one part per million. There are six stable Kr isotopes and two rare long lived isotopes Kr t 2.29 10yr isotopic abundance Kr Kr 6 10 and Kr t 10 yr Kr Kr 10 . Upon the discovery of Kr in the atmosphere it has been proposed that Kr is an ideal tracer isotope for dating water and ice in the age range of 10 10years a range beyond the reach of C dating. Kr is mainly produced in the upper atmosphere by cosmic ray induced spallation and neutron activation of stable Kr. Due to its long residence time Kr is expected to be distributed uniformly throughout the atmosphere. Subsurface sources and sinks for Kr other than radioactive decay are most likely negligible. Human activities involving nuclear fission have a negligible effect on the Kr concentration because the stable Br shields Kr from the decay of the neutron rich fission products. All of these favorable conditions combine to support the case for Kr dating. The other long lived krypton isotope Kr has a completely different production source. It is a fission product of U and Pu and is released into the atmosphere primarily by nuclear fuel reprocessing activities. Kr can be used as a tracer to study air and ocean currents determine residence time of young groundwater in shallow aquifers and monitor nuclear fuel processing activities.

For Kr analysis low level decay counting LLC is performed routinely in a few specialized laboratories around the world. LLC was also the first method used to detect Kr and to determine its abundance in the atmosphere but it is too inefficient for practical Kr dating because only a fraction 3 10of Kr atoms in a sample decays in a 100 hour measurement. In general counting atoms is preferable to counting decays for analyses of long lived isotopes because of the enhanced efficiency and because of the immunity to other decay backgrounds from both the sample and the surroundings. An accelerator mass spectrometry AMS method for counting Kr ions has been developed and has been used to perform Kr dating of four groundwater samples from the Great Artesian Basin of Australia. However due to the complexity of this technique which required the use of a high energy 4 GeV cyclotron to produce fully stripped Kr ions and the large sample size required 16 tons of water the AMS effort on Kr dating was halted following these proof of principle measurements.

Atom Trap Trace Analysis ATTA is another type of atom counting method capable of detecting both Kr and Kr in environmental samples. In ATTA an atom of a particular isotope is selectively captured by resonant laser light in a magneto optical trap MOT and detected by observing its fluorescence. Following the first demonstration of ATTA both the reliability and counting efficiency of the ATTA instrument have been improved. An earlier version ATTA 2 had a counting efficiency of 1 10and for each Kr Kr analysis needed a sample of 50 L STP of Kr gas extracted from approximately 1000 kg of water. The ATTA 2 instrument had a limited dynamic range it could only be used to count the rare Kr isotopes not the abundant stable isotopes for example Kr whose isotopic abundance is 11.5 . The isotopic abundance Kr Kr had to be measured in two steps first a controlled amount of Kr was introduced into the sample and its Kr Kr ratio was determined with LLC second ATTA 2 was used to measure Kr Kr. The two ratios were then combined to obtain Kr Kr. Despite its dependence on additional measurements with other techniques and the relatively large sample size required ATTA 2 was used successfully for Kr dating of old groundwater of the Nubian aquifer in western Egypt. However none of these prior art methods and systems including the existing ATTA 2 systems have enabled efficient or commercially practical methods and systems for detection and analysis of Kr Kr or Kr Kr ratios. Consequently there is a substantial need for a commercially efficient method for Kr isotope measurements and analysis.

An efficient and selective atom counter ATTA 3 system and method based on this Atom Trap Trace Analysis ATTA method has been developed to measure both Kr Kr and Kr Kr ratios of environmental samples in the range of 10 10. Compared to the previously reported ATTA 2 instrument the counting rates of ATTA 3 are higher by two orders of magnitude and the required sample size lower by one order of magnitude. For Kr dating in the age range of 200 1 500 kyr the required sample size is 5 10 L STP of krypton gas which can be extracted from approximately 100 200 kg of water or 40 80 kg of ice. Moreover a laser induced quenching scheme was developed to enable measurements of the trap capture rates of both the rare Kr and the abundant Kr whose isotopic abundances differ by 11 orders of magnitude. This scheme allows the ATTA 3 system to directly determine Kr Kr and Kr Kr ratios without other supplemental measurements. ATTA 3 represents a highly effective and commercially efficient method and system for routine analysis of these rare noble gas tracers Now for the first time Kr dating is available for commercial use and used by the earth science community at large. It should also be appreciated that the described ATTA 3 can also be used to analyze other noble gas isotopes for example Ar.

These and other advantages and features of the invention together with the organization and manner of operation thereof will become apparent from the following Detailed Description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings described below.

An ATTA system constructed in accordance with a method and system of the invention is shown in . In the method of the invention laser trapping and cooling of Kr atoms are achieved by the resonant excitation of the cycling transition 5s 3 2 5p 5 2 see . This 5s 3 2 state is metastable and is populated with an efficiency of 10by sending the sample gas through a RF driven discharge source. A newly developed discharge source is cooled by a liquid nitrogen reservoir not shown resulting in a slower beam of atoms and a gain by a factor of two in the trapping efficiency. A diverging beam of metastable atoms is collimated in a 20 cm long two dimensional transverse cooling zone . The forward atomic beam flux is enhanced by a factor of one hundred forty resulting in a gain by a factor of two over the prior art ATTA 2 method. A mechanical beam chopper is used to periodically turn on the atomic beam in the capture phase and to turn it off in the detection phase. A two dimensional MOT type of trap is installed in the system to focus the already collimated atomic beam thus boosting the trap capture efficiency by a factor of three. A new Zeeman slower containing a reverse biased segment near the MOT improves the transition of atoms from the slower into the MOT trap and improves the trapping efficiency by a factor of three. In addition a factor of three increase in laser power a total of 2 W and complete sideband coverage for hyperfine repumping improve the trapping efficiency by a factor of four.

Analyzing an atmospheric Kr sample the system can capture Kr 11.5 atoms at the rate of 1 10s Kr 6 10 at the rate of 1 000 per hour and Kr 10 at 20 000 per hour. This represents a combined improvement by two orders of magnitude over the previously reported prior art ATTA 2 results. Further instead of an avalanche photodiode employed in ATTA 2 a sensitive EMCCD camera is used in the system to image the fluorescence of the trapped atom. The described examples utilized a Luca S EMCCD camera made by Andor Technology A single Kr atom in the trap is repeatedly excited on the 5s 3 2 5p 5 2 transition by the resonant trapping laser beams at 811 nm see . The atom absorbs and emits photons at the rate of 1 10s of which 1 of the fluorescence photons are collected by an imaging lens onto the camera. By providing the spatial as well as the intensity information the camera image see makes it easier and more reliable to align the single trap. A circular region of interest is defined on the camera image within which the photon counts are integrated to form a signal of the atom see . Background photon counts are caused by both the laser light scattered off walls and the dark counts of the camera. Under the optimum conditions the signal to noise ratio of a single trapped atom is approximately twenty. The threshold for single atom detection is set at seven standard deviations above background.

The system is immune to interference from any other isotope element or molecule. When the laser frequency is tuned to the resonance of the desired isotope Kr or Kr only atoms of this specific isotope are trapped see . Other species are either deflected before reaching the MOT or are allowed to pass through it without being captured. Indeed the number of atom counts drops to zero on both sides of the Kr or Kr peak. There is no interference from counts due to the nearby peak of Kr see an isotope that is more abundant by 11 orders of magnitude. This superb selectivity is due to two characteristics of the MOT resonance and repetition laser trapping works only when the atom resonantly and repeatedly scatters photons at the rate of 10per second.

Compared to single atom counting of Kr or Kr an accurate determination of the trap capture rate of the abundant isotope Kr is surprisingly difficult yet it is required in order to measure the isotopic abundances of Kr Kr and Kr Kr. Here we assume that the Kr Kr ratio 11.5 is a constant throughout the near surface Earth environment. Interaction among the large number 10 of Kr atoms in the trap causes loss of atoms due to ionization quenching and other forms of inelastic collisions. Consequently the average time for an atom to stay in the MOT the so called trap lifetime depends sharply on the number and the density of atoms in the MOT and is difficult to control and determine to the required accuracy 5 . Since the fluorescence signal of the cycling transition at 811 nm from the trapped Kr atoms is proportional to the trap lifetime the longer an atom stays in the MOT the more fluorescence photons at 811 nm it emits the large uncertainty in determining the MOT lifetime causes a similar difficulty in accurately determining the capture rate of Kr. This is not a problem for counting the rare Kr isotope. For one the number of trapped Kr atoms is small and their trap lifetime is long 1 s and stable. In addition the signal size of the 811 nm fluorescence is discrete when there are only a couple of Kr atoms in the MOT making atom counting of Kr possible without knowing the trap lifetime.

In prior art ATTA 2 system this problem was bypassed by injecting a known amount of Kr into the sample being analyzed and using Kr as a control isotope for Kr measurement and vice versa. This procedure introduced additional complexity and potential sources of errors into the final age determination. The system has succeeded in measuring the capture rate of Kr accurately with a laser induced quenching procedure. A 200 W laser beam of 810 nm is directed at the trapped atoms to resonantly excite the 5s 3 2 5p 5 2 transition see . An atom excited to the 5p 5 2 state decays to the ground state through the intermediate 5s 3 2 state emitting two photons at 878 nm and 124 nm respectively. Once in the ground state the atom no longer interacts resonantly with the laser beams and is lost from the trap. This quenching process actively reduces the lifetime and thus reduces the number of Kr atoms in the MOT by one order of magnitude while the collisional loss rate is reduced by two orders. While the 811 nm fluorescence of the cycling transition is proportional to the trap lifetime the 878 nm fluorescence is not. Instead each Kr atom in the trap emits a single 878 nm photon before dropping to the ground state. The fluorescence at 878 nm although much weaker is linearly proportional to the rate of atoms being captured by the trap and is insensitive to any drifts of laser power and frequency. Detecting the 878 nm fluorescence of Kr induced by the quenching laser beam we have measured both the Kr Kr and Kr Kr ratios of a single test sample under a variety of trapping conditions and overall capture rates see and found these ratios to remain constant within the statistical uncertainty of 9 for Kr Kr and 7 for Kr Kr. This new procedure is adopted in the system for all isotope ratio measurements.

Cross sample contamination is one limitation on the sample size requirement and sample processing time of the system . While the discharge is used to excite the Kr atoms to the metastable 5s 3 2 state it also ionizes the atoms and implants them into the surrounding walls thus causing a slow loss of the sample. Later on under the bombardment of the energetic ions those embedded atoms of the current and previous samples can be slowly released back into the vacuum system. Over time atoms from previous samples slowly accumulate in the system causing an instrumental memory effect. This effect is mitigated by flushing the system for 36 hours with a xenon gas discharge between measurements. During flushing the outgassing rate of Kr is recorded with a residual gas analyzer and is observed to drop by two orders of magnitude down to an acceptable level of 0.015 L STP per hour. In addition both the Kr Kr and Kr Kr ratios of the outgassing Kr can be measured directly with atom counting. Although the contamination is small compared to the sample size of 5 10 L it is not entirely negligible particularly when a sample is old and the Kr Kr abundance is much lower than that of the contaminant from previous samples. Since both the release rate and the Kr Kr abundance of the contaminant can be determined a correction is made and its associated error is added to the result of each sample. In the future this limitation may be removed by replacing the discharge source of metastable atoms with a photon excitation scheme.

The Kr Kr ratios measured at Argonne National Laboratory with the system were compared to those measured independently at the University of Bern with LLC. A total of 12 Kr samples were prepared in Bern by mixing varying amounts of modern atmospheric Kr with a Kr sample originally taken from air prior to the dawn of the nuclear age containing basically zero Kr concentration. The resulting Kr Kr ratios among these samples varies from 0 to 1 10. These ratios were determined both by the volume mixing ratios and by LLC of Kr. The Kr Kr ratios are expected to remain constant among all these samples. Using the system both the Kr Kr and Kr Kr ratios were measured several times for each sample with each measurement consuming approximately 10 STP of Kr. During a measurement the laser frequency was switched among Kr Kr and Kr every few minutes to average out any drifts in trapping and detection efficiencies. The final isotope ratio results after correction for the memory effect are displayed in . The system and LLC measurements agree on the Kr Kr ratios at the 7 level chi square 1.1 . Moreover the Kr Kr ratios measured with ATTA 3 indeed remain constant at the 9 level chi square 1.0 . We note that the system does not directly measure absolute isotope ratios. Instead the measured ratios of unknown samples are normalized to those of a standard reference for this example a well studied atmospheric krypton sample. 2 2 . It should be appreciated that other samples can be utilized as a standard reference.

The required sample size for applications in Kr dating depends on both the sample age and the desired uncertainty in age determination see . Kr dating with the system covers an effective age range from 150 kyr to 1.5 Myr or 0.6 6 times the half life of the isotope. On the side younger than 150 kyr the change of Kr Kr is too small to provide adequate age resolution. On the side older than 1.5 Myr the Kr Kr ratio itself is too small compared to the error introduced by the correction for the memory effect. Within the effective age range a typical sample size is 5 10 L STP of Kr gas which can be extracted from approximately 100 200 kg of water or 40 80 kg of ice. It should be noted that these are not absolute requirements rather they should be viewed as a guideline. If needed extraordinary steps for example prolonged xenon flushing in order to reduce the memory effect can be taken to further reduce the required sample size and meet the special demands of a particular application. The chemical purity of the krypton sample is not important since the ATTA method is immune to contamination from any other species.

The foregoing description of embodiments of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present invention to the precise form disclosed and modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the present invention. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to explain the principles of the present invention and its practical application to enable one skilled in the art to utilize the present invention in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

