---

title: Microresonator electrode design
abstract: A microresonator with an input electrode and an output electrode patterned thereon is described. The input electrode includes a series of stubs that are configured to isolate acoustic waves, such that the waves are not reflected into the microresonator. Such design results in reduction of spurious modes corresponding to the microresonator.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09337800&OS=09337800&RS=09337800
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09337800
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121010
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 546 432 filed on Oct. 12 2011 and entitled MITIGATION OF SPURIOUS FLEXURAL MODES IN ALUMINUM NITRIDE MICRORESONATORS . The entirety of this application is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in this invention.

Microresonators are relatively small acoustic resonators that can be used to form frequency filters or oscillator references. Generally microresonators are manufactured through employment of integrated circuit IC manufacturing techniques such that multiple resonators with a wide range of resonant frequencies 32 kHz to 10 GHz can be manufactured on a single substrate. Oftentimes microresonators are employed in connection with radio frequency band or channel selection.

Relatively recently microresonators have become of research interest due to their small size high quality factor Q CAD defined low to moderate impedance potential monolithic integration with radiofrequency RF circuitry and ability to realize multiple frequency filters operating from 10 kHz to 10 GHz on a single chip. The realization of numerous tens to hundreds multiple frequency filters on a single substrate can reduce component count in wireless handsets and enable frequency bandwidth and waveform diverse cognitive radios.

While impedance and frequency of desired extensional modes in microresonators can be relatively accurately adjusted using known equations and reduced order finite element models to synthesize a variety of different filter architectures spurious modes arising from multiple sources may degrade the ultimate filter performance.

The following is a brief summary of subject matter that is described in greater detail herein. This summary is not intended to be limiting as to the scope of the claims.

Described herein are various technologies pertaining to microresonators. With more particularity described herein are exemplary designs of electrodes on acoustic microresonators that facilitate reduction of spurious modes associated with conventional acoustic microresonators. An acoustic microresonator described herein can be manufactured utilizing integrated circuit IC manufacturing techniques thereby allowing the acoustic microresonator to be relatively small such as on the order of less than 500 m in length less than 100 m in width and less than 10 m in thickness.

An exemplary microresonator comprises a plurality of layers a first layer that is composed of a metal such as aluminum a 2nd layer that is composed of piezoelectric film such as an aluminum nitride film and a 3rd layer composed of a metal such as aluminum . The second layer is disposed between the first layer and the third layer. The first layer comprises an input electrode that receives electric current from a source or from a connected element such as another microresonator. The first layer further comprises an output electrode wherein electric current exits the micro resonator e.g. where such electric current is received by a connected element such as another microresonator . The third layer in an exemplary embodiment can comprise an electrode that is grounded. In operation an electric field can be applied across the second layer the piezoelectric film which induces displacement of the piezoelectric film by way of the piezoelectric effect. The input electrode can be employed to drive acoustic resonance of the microresonator while the output electrode can be employed in connection with sensing acoustic resonance of the microresonator.

The input electrode comprises a first interconnect bus that is employed to electrically connect the microresonator with another element. The input electrode further comprises a first plurality of fingers that extend orthogonally from the first interconnect bus. Accordingly fingers in the first plurality of fingers are in parallel with one another. Each finger in the first plurality of fingers can have a first length. The input electrode also comprises a plurality of stubs that extend orthogonally from the first interconnect bus such that stubs in the first plurality of stubs are in parallel with one another and also in parallel with fingers in the first plurality of fingers. Each stub in the first plurality of stubs has a second length wherein the second length is less than the first length the length of fingers in the first plurality of fingers .

In an exemplary embodiment stubs in the first plurality of stubs are disposed adjacent to fingers in the first plurality of fingers along the first interconnect bus. Accordingly no finger in the first plurality of fingers is adjacent to any other finger in the first plurality of fingers along the first interconnect bus rather any two fingers are separated by a stub. Similarly stubs are not immediately adjacent to one another along the first interconnect bus instead any two stubs are separated by a finger.

The output electrode of the first layer of the acoustic microresonator comprises a second interconnect bus that is parallel to the first interconnect bus. Additionally the first plurality of fingers and the first plurality of stubs extend from the first interconnect bus towards the second interconnect bus. The output electrode also includes a second plurality of fingers that extend orthogonally from the second interconnect bus towards the first interconnect bus. The output electrode also comprises a second plurality of stubs that extend orthogonally from the second interconnect bus towards the first interconnect bus such that the first plurality of fingers the first plurality of stubs the second plurality of fingers and the second plurality of stubs are in parallel with one another.

Each finger in the second plurality of fingers has a length that is greater than respective lengths of stubs in the second plurality of stubs. The output electrode is structured in a similar manner to the input electrode e.g. rotated 180 degrees . Accordingly no two fingers are adjacent to one another along the second interconnect bus and no two stubs are adjacent to one another along the second interconnect bus. Rather any two fingers are separated by a stub and any two stubs are separated by a finger.

Further fingers in the first plurality of fingers are substantially aligned with stubs in the second plurality of stubs. Likewise fingers in the second plurality of fingers are substantially aligned with stubs in the first plurality of stubs. The selective inclusion and placement of the stubs in the input electrode and the output electrode facilitate prevention of reflectance of acoustic waves into the acoustic microresonator thereby facilitating prevention of spurious modes. Further each finger in the first plurality of fingers and second plurality of fingers and each stub in the first plurality of stubs and the second plurality of stubs can have rounded ends such that sharp corners are avoided . The structure of the electrode results in increased accuracy and reliability when the acoustic microresonator is employed as a filter mechanism for example in a mobile communications device.

Other aspects will be appreciated upon reading and understanding the attached figures and description.

Various technologies pertaining to acoustic microresonators will now be described with reference to the drawings where like reference numerals represent like elements throughout. Additionally as used herein the term exemplary is intended to mean serving as an illustration or example of something and is not intended to indicate a preference.

With reference now to a cross sectional view of an exemplary acoustic microresonator is illustrated. Pursuant to an example the microresonator can be of a relatively small size such as on the order of 500 m in length 150 m in width and 10 m in thickness. For instance the micro resonator can be less than 300 m in length less than 70 m in width and less than 2 m in thickness.

The microresonator comprises a first layer a second layer and a third layer such that the second layer is disposed between the first layer and the third layer . In an exemplary embodiment the first layer and the third layer can be composed of a conductive material such as a metal. For example such metal can be aluminum Al although other metals are contemplated and are intended to fall under the scope of the hereto appended claims. In another exemplary embodiment the first layer and or the third layer can be composed of titanium Ti titanium nitride TiN tungsten W or some combination thereof.

The second layer can be a piezoelectric film which can be composed of a suitable piezoelectric material. In an exemplary embodiment the second layer can be composed of aluminum nitride AlN . It is to be understood however that other piezoelectric materials are contemplated by the inventors and are intended to fall under the scope of the hereto appended claims. For example the second layer can be composed of zinc oxide ZnO lead zirconate titanate PZT lithium niobate LiNbO lithium tantalate LiTaO quartz barium strontium titanate or other suitable piezoelectric material.

As will be described in greater detail below the first layer can include an input electrode and an output electrode. The third layer may also comprise an electrode that is grounded such electrode can be referred to as a bottom electrode . Application of an electric field across the second layer causes displacement to occur in the second layer by way of the piezoelectric effect. Such electric field can be generated via transition of electric current through the input electrode. The output electrode of the first layer can be employed to sense resonance of the second layer induced by the electric field across the second layer . Additionally while not shown in the microresonator is suspended above a substrate upon which the microresonator is forded by an air or vacuum gap the plate thickness is on the order of one acoustic wavelength or less at resonance. Furthermore in an exemplary embodiment the microresonator need not include the bottom electrode.

As will be described in greater detail below the acoustic microresonator can be fabricated through conventional integrated circuit IC fabrication techniques. The acoustic microresonator can be employed in a variety of applications. For example the acoustic microresonator can be a portion of a filter that is utilized in connection with detecting electromagnetic frequencies such as those used to transmit communications to and from mobile communications devices. Further the acoustic microresonator can be comprised by a chip that includes numerous tens to hundreds of microresonators wherein such microresonators may have differing resonant frequencies e.g. between 32 kHz and 10 GHz . It is therefore to be understood that the microresonator can be comprised by a suitable mobile communications device such as a mobile telephone a military communications device or the like.

With reference now to an overhead view of the first layer of the microresonator is shown. As noted above the first layer comprises an input electrode and an output electrode . The input electrode comprises a first interconnect bus . A first plurality of fingers collectively referred to as extend orthogonally from the first interconnect bus . Each finger in the first plurality of fingers has a first length in an exemplary embodiment lengths of the fingers can depend upon a desired resonant frequency of the acoustic microresonator . For example each finger in the first plurality of fingers can have a same length.

The input electrode further comprises a first plurality of stubs collectively referred to as . The first plurality of stubs extends orthogonally from the first interconnect bus in parallel with the first plurality of fingers . As can be ascertained no two stubs in the first plurality of stubs are adjacent to one another along the first interconnect bus rather two stubs in the first plurality of stubs are separated by a respective one of the fingers in the first plurality of fingers . Likewise no two fingers in the first plurality of fingers are directly adjacent to one another along the first interconnect bus rather two fingers are separated by a respective stub in the first plurality of stubs .

The output electrode comprises a second interconnect bus that is parallel to the first interconnect bus . The first plurality of fingers and the first plurality of stubs extend from the first interconnect bus towards the second interconnect bus . The output electrode additionally comprises a second plurality of fingers collectively referred to as . The second plurality of fingers extend orthogonally from the second interconnect bus towards the first interconnect bus .

The output electrode additionally comprises a second plurality of stubs collectively referred to as that extend orthogonally from the second interconnect bus in parallel with the second plurality of fingers towards the first interconnect bus . As can be ascertained stubs in the second plurality of stubs respectively have a length that is less than a length of the fingers in the second plurality of fingers . Pursuant to an example length of stubs in the second plurality of stubs can be equivalent to lengths of the stubs in the first plurality of stubs . Likewise lengths of the fingers in the first plurality of fingers can be equivalent to lengths of the fingers in the second plurality of fingers .

Further stubs in the first plurality of stubs are in substantial alignment with fingers in the second plurality of fingers and fingers in the first plurality of fingers are in substantial alignment with stubs in the second plurality of stubs . Accordingly in an example the stub is in alignment with the finger wherein the stub and the finger are separated by a gap of a particular length. Likewise the stub is in alignment with the finger wherein the stub and the finger are separated by a gap of the particular length. Similarly fingers in the first plurality of fingers are in alignment with respective stubs in the second plurality of stubs . Thus the finger is in alignment with the stub and the finger and the stub are separated by a gap of the particular length.

As shown ends of fingers in the first plurality of fingers ends of fingers in the second plurality of fingers ends of stubs in the first plurality of stubs and ends of stubs in the first plurality of stubs can have rounded edges to avoid sharp corners .

The design of the input electrode and the output electrode has been experimentally shown to reduce interactions of the acoustic wave generated by the microresonator with the first interconnect bus and the second interconnect bus . Particularly the acoustic wave generated by the microresonator is isolated from the interconnect buses and . Such design does not completely eliminate all spurious modes when compared to the standard design of acoustic microresonators however many of the spurious modes are removed while several others are significantly rejected. Removal of these modes also incrementally improves both the motional impedance and quality factor.

To demonstrate the impact of removing spurious modes on filter synthesis a two pole filter was generated in an experiment by placing two microresonators in series. The coupling between the microresonators which determines the filter bandwidth was achieved using the shunt capacitance inherent in the resonator. Four of these filters were placed in parallel to reduce the insertion loss into a fifty ohm termination impedance.

Now referring to an exemplary graph illustrating measured responses of 50 ohm 533 MHz width extensional microresonators is illustrated. Line represents a response of a conventional microresonator design which includes numerous spurs. Line represents a response of a microresonator design that includes the input and output electrode structured as shown in .

Turning briefly to a graph illustrating reduction of spurious modes in a filter that includes the microresonator is illustrated. Data for the graph corresponds to a width extensional aluminum nitride microresonator operating at 533 MHz. A first line illustrates spurious modes of microresonators with conventional input and output electrode designs while a 2nd line illustrates a measured response of an electrically coupled filter design realized utilizing resonators with input and output electrode design as shown in .

Referring now to an exemplary fabrication process for fabricating the microresonator is illustrated. With reference to the fabrication process begins with an anisotropic silica Si etch and the deposition of a silicon dioxide SiO layer to isolate the bottom electrode in the third layer from the substrate. Tungsten W can then be deposited by chemical vapor deposition and can be chemically mechanically polished until W remains only where the Si was etched. An oxide touch polish may then be performed to further smooth the wafer surface prior to the sputter deposition and patterning of the bottom electrode in the third layer . Two separate bottom electrode processes are described a first process with a 50 nm Al bottom electrode and a second process that utilizes Ti 20 nm TiN 50 nm Al 50 nm . Subsequently 750 nm of AlN is sputter deposited at 350 C. Using such process highly oriented c axis AlN films used for realizing low impedance resonators can be reliably formed.

Typical rocking curve full width half maximum values for the AlN film measured using x ray diffraction are 3.1 on aluminum and 1.5 Ti TiN Al. In an exemplary embodiment resonators realized using the more highly oriented AlN on Ti TiN Al exhibit 2.25 times lower impedance when compared to identical resonators on an Al bottom electrode.

Referring now to contacts to the W area are etched in the AlN and a 100 nm thick Al top electrode is deposited and patterned in the pattern shown in .

Turning to the resonator frequency is lithographically defined by etching trenches in the AlN and SiOto bulk Si and the devices are released using an isotropic etch in dry SFor XeF. In this exemplary process the maximum temperature is 350 C. and the materials are post CMOS compatible and can be deposited and etched using standard CMOS tools.

Experimentally for the following film thicknesses in the range of 400 600 MHz a stub length and stub spacing to the input and output electrodes of acoustic wavelength was found to be substantially optimal SiO 825 nm Ti TiN Al 20 50 100 nm AlN 750 nm Al TiN 200 50 nm 

Additionally for a temperature compensated microresonator in the 400 600 MHz frequency range with the material thicknesses set forth below a stub length and stub spacing to the electrodes of 5 4 acoustic wavelength was found to be substantially optimal SiO 1500 nm Ti TiN Al 20 25 50 nm AlN 750 nm Al TiN 100 25 nm.

With reference now to an exemplary methodology is illustrated and described. While the methodology is described as being a series of acts that are performed in a sequence it is to be understood that the methodology is not limited by the order of the sequence. For instance some acts may occur in a different order than what is described herein. In addition an act may occur concurrently with another act. Furthermore in some instances not all acts may be required to implement a methodology described herein.

The exemplary methodology facilitates forming an acoustic microresonator. The methodology starts at and at a first layer that is composed of a metal is formed. At a second layer that is composed of piezoelectric film is formed. For instance the piezoelectric film can be AlN. At a third layer is formed that is composed of metal e.g. the same metal that is used to form the first layer wherein the second layer is disposed between the first layer in the second layer.

The first layer is formed to comprise an input electrode and an output electrode wherein the input electrode comprises a first interconnect bus and a first finger that extends orthogonally from the first interconnect bus. The first finger has a first length. The input electrode further comprises a first stub that extends orthogonally from the first interconnect bus parallel to the first finger. The first stub has a second length wherein the first length is greater than the second length. The methodology completes at .

It is noted that several examples have been provided for purposes of explanation. These examples are not to be construed as limiting the hereto appended claims. Additionally it may be recognized that the examples provided herein may be permutated while still falling under the scope of the claims.

