---

title: Connected phone system and method with associated bandwidth connections in a vehicle environment
abstract: A system and method for connection management between a consumer device and a vehicle. The connection management is performed automatically using a computing device, e.g., an application executing on a smartphone. The system and method configure the vehicle and consumer device in a manner that optimizes the vehicle and consumer device connections based on a variety of factors such as available connections/ports and protocols to be used.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08892175&OS=08892175&RS=08892175
owner: Honda Motor Co., Ltd.
number: 08892175
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20120429
---
This application relates to automobiles and more particularly to vehicle pairing with communication devices.

The use of consumer devices such as smartphones have become ubiquitous in the last few years and communication between consumer devices and an automotive vehicle have existed in one form of another for years. Examples include the connection of MP3 players to analog Auxiliary Jacks iPods being connected via USB connections and cellular phones being connected via wireless Bluetooth connections. All of these provide methods to bring content to and from the vehicle and allow a user to have some connectivity while in the vehicle.

While a vehicle can be connected to multiple consumer devices there is currently no method of effectively leveraging the connection options of the consumer device and the connection options of a vehicle.

A system and method for connection management between a consumer device and a vehicle. The connection management is performed automatically using a computing device e.g. an application executing on a smartphone. The system and method configure the vehicle and consumer device in a manner that optimizes the vehicle and consumer device connections based on a variety of factors such as available connections ports and protocols to be used.

The features and advantages described in the specification are not all inclusive and in particular many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art in view of the drawings specification and claims. Moreover it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter.

The figures depict various embodiments for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

Embodiments are now described with reference to the figures where like reference numbers indicate identical or functionally similar elements. Also in the figures the left most digit of each reference number corresponds to the figure in which the reference number is first used.

In vehicle hands free telephone HFT system and wireless mobile communication device MCD may communicate with each other via a short range communication link which uses short range communication technology such as for example Bluetooth technology or other short range communication technology for example Universal Serial Bus USB . In vehicle HFT system and wireless mobile communication device may connect or pair with each other via short range communication link . In an embodiment the HFT system can include a communications unit to assist in the short range communications a memory unit device and a processor . The HFT system can be part of a vehicle s telematics system which includes memory storage processor s and communication unit s . shows the memory communication unit and processor as being part of the in vehicle HFT system for ease of discussion. In alternate embodiments the HFT system can utilize the vehicle s telematics unit to assist in performing various functions. For example the communications unit and or processor for example can be part of the vehicle s telematics unit or can be a separate unit in the vehicle. The MCD has an operating system and can include various applications either integrated into the operating system or stored in memory storage and executed by the processor .

Processors and or process data signals and may comprise various computing architectures including a complex instruction set computer CISC architecture a reduced instruction set computer RISC architecture or an architecture implementing a combination of instruction sets. Although only a single processor is shown in multiple processors may be included. The processors can comprises an arithmetic logic unit a microprocessor a general purpose computer or some other information appliance equipped to transmit receive and process electronic data signals from the memory and other devices both shown and not shown in the figures.

Examples of a wireless mobile communication device MCD include a cellular phone personal device assistant PDA smart phone pocket personal computer PC laptop computer tablet computer smart watch or other devices having a processor communications capability and are easily transportable for example. In a common form an MCD application could be part of a larger suite of vehicle features and interactions. Examples of applications include applications available for the iPhone that is commercially available from Apple Computer Cupertino Calif. applications for phones running the Android operating system that is commercially available from Google Inc. Mountain View Calif. applications for BlackBerry devices available from RIM Ontario Canada and or applications available for Windows Mobile devices available from Microsoft Corp. Redmond Wash. In an embodiment the MCD includes a communications unit a memory unit device and a processor . The MCD has an operating system and can include various applications either integrated into the operating system or stored in memory storage and executed by the processor .

In alternate embodiments a mobile communication device can be used in conjunction with a communication device embedded in the vehicle such as a vehicle embedded phone a wireless network card or other device e.g. a Wi Fi capable device . For ease of discussion the description herein describes the operation of the embodiments with respect to an embodiment using a mobile communication device . However this is not intended to limit the scope of the embodiments and it is envisioned that other embodiments operate using other communication systems between the in vehicle system and the network examples of which are described herein.

In vehicle system may send information to wireless mobile communication device . Wireless mobile communication device may send information to in vehicle system via short range communication link . Wireless mobile communication device may store information received from in vehicle system and or may provide the information to a remote processing device such as for example server via network . Remote server can include a communications unit to connect to the network for example a memory storage unit and a processor .

In some embodiments in vehicle system may provide information to the wireless mobile communication device . Wireless mobile communication device may use that information to obtain additional information from network and or server . The additional information may also be obtained in response to providing information with respect to a prompt on wireless mobile communication device from in vehicle system .

Network may include a wireless communication network for example a cellular telephony network as well as one or more other networks such as the Internet a public switched telephone network PSTN a packet switching network a frame relay network a fiber optic network and or other types of networks.

In automotive vehicles connectivity is available in many forms for the user. Example of connection options between a user device and a vehicle include Bluetooth USB ports HDMI high definition multimedia interface ports WiFi an infrared serial an auxiliary jack and a battery electric vehicle charging connection. Such connectivity could be accomplished using any technology applied over these physical connections examples include digital living network alliance DLNA audio video streaming which uses WiFi as a physical medium mobile hi definition line MHL which uses a physical USB connection to transfer HDMI type content. In particular vehicles can use Hands Free phone systems using Bluetooth and or a USB connection to connect both iPods iPhones and mass storage devices to the audio systems and or HDMI ports to connect input video data on the rear entertainment video System. Connectivity methods often need a solution to help the customer control them. Today the phone is the hub for many of these connections and related media and the embodiments provide a connection management solution using a user device e.g. smartphone. In alternate embodiments the vehicle can provide the connection management solution tools without requiring the use of a smartphone.

The embodiments provide a management tool for the many connections between consumer devices and the vehicle. For Smartphones the tool embodies software that the customer can install on the Smartphone. This software is able to manage the many connections to the vehicle. In embodiments the software can make a new connection or open an existing connection and is able to direct the information across any application connection to provide a high quality experience for the user.

In an embodiment the software is a connection manager and can manage secondary high bandwidth connections e.g. Wi Fi USB etc this manager can turn those connections on structure the communication style for that connection and direct the correct media across that connection. In addition the primary communication between the management tool and the vehicle can inform the vehicle systems of the status of the various connections.

The term Bluetooth as used herein can include any of a variety of Bluetooth protocols or profiles. A Bluetooth profile is a wireless interface specification for Bluetooth based communication between devices. In order to use Bluetooth technology a device must be compatible with the subset of Bluetooth profiles necessary to use the desired services. A Bluetooth profile resides on top of the Bluetooth Core Specification and optionally additional protocols. While the profile may use certain features of the core specification specific versions of profiles are rarely tied to specific versions of the core specification. For example there are hands free profile HFP 1.5 implementations using both Bluetooth 2.0 and Bluetooth 1.2 core specifications.

The way a device uses Bluetooth technology depends on its profile capabilities. The profiles provide standards which manufacturers follow to allow devices to use Bluetooth in the intended manner. For the Bluetooth low energy stack according to Bluetooth V4.0 a special set of profiles applies.

Each profile specification can include information on the following topics a dependencies on other formats b suggested user interface formats and or c specific parts of the Bluetooth protocol stack used by the profile. To perform its task each profile uses particular options and parameters at each layer of the stack. This may include an outline of the required service record if appropriate. Details of some examples of Bluetooth profiles are set forth below.

The advanced audio distribution profile A2DP defines how high quality audio can be streamed from one device to another over a Bluetooth connection. For example music can be streamed from a smartphone to a wireless headset or vehicle audio system for example. A2DP was initially used in conjunction with an intermediate Bluetooth transceiver that connects to a standard audio output jack encodes the incoming audio to a Bluetooth friendly format and sends the signal wirelessly to Bluetooth headphones that decode and play the audio. Some Bluetooth headphones provide a microphone and support for the Headset HSP Hands Free HFP and Audio Video Remote Control AVRCP profiles.

The audio video remote control AVRCP profile is designed to provide a standard interface to control TVs Hi fi equipment etc. to allow a single remote control or other device to control all of the A V equipment to which a user has access. It may be used in concert with A2DP or VDP.

A device ID profile DIP allows a device to be identified above and beyond the limitations of the device class already available in Bluetooth. It enables identification of the manufacturer product id product version and the version of the Device ID specification being met. It is useful in allowing a computing device to identify a connecting device and download appropriate drivers. It enables similar applications to those the Plug and play specification allows.

The hands free profile HFP is commonly used to allow car hands free kits to communicate with Smartphones in the car. It uses a synchronous connection oriented SCO link to carry a monaural audio channel with continuously variable slope delta modulation or pulse code modulation.

The message access profile MAP specification allows an exchange of messages between devices in particular for vehicle handsfree use.

The object push profile OPP is a basic profile for sending objects such as pictures virtual business cards or appointment details. It is called push because the transfers are initiated by the sender client not the receiver server . OPP uses the application programming interfaces APIs of OBEX profile and the object exchange OBEX operations which are used in OPP are connect disconnect put get and abort. By using these APIs the OPP layer resides over OBEX and hence follow the specifications of the Bluetooth stack.

A personal area networking profile PAN allows the use of Bluetooth Network Encapsulation Protocol on Layer 3 protocols for transport over a Bluetooth link.

A phone book access profile PBAP PBA is a profile that allows the exchange of phone book objects between devices. It can be used between a vehicle and a mobile phone to allow the vehicle to display the name of the incoming caller and or allow the vehicle to download the phone book so the user can initiate a call from the vehicle s display.

A serial port profile SPP is based on European Telecommunications Standards Institute ETSI versions 07 and 10 and the radio frequency communication RFCOMM protocol. The SPP emulates a serial cable to provide a simple substitute for existing RS 232.

A service discovery application profile SDAP describes how an application should use the session description protocol SDP to discover services on a remote device. SDAP enables applications be able to find out what services are available on Bluetooth enabled devices to which it connects.

A subscriber identity module SIM access profile SAP SIM rSAP allows devices such as car phones with built in GSM Global System for Mobile Communication transceivers to connect to a SIM card in a phone with Bluetooth thus the car phone itself doesn t require a separate SIM card. This profile is also known as rSAP remote SIM Access Profile .

A video distribution profile VDP allows the transport of a video stream. It can be used for streaming a recorded video from a PC media center to a portable player or a live video from a digital video camera to a TV.

It is envisioned that alternate embodiments of the connection manager can recognize and control protocols profiles connections that are different from those protocol examples set forth herein.

With respect to one embodiment is a method and corresponding system to perform an automatic setup check of the total telematics system communications capabilities at the vehicle startup. Although this can be stored in memory for future connections this setup can occur when connected to or just after the phone is connected with the vehicle by initiating an application on the MCD . In an embodiment the application can be initiated by a user of the MCD in another embodiment the application can be initiated by the connection manager .

In an embodiment the connection manager software in the HFT or the connections manager software in the MCD exchanges capability information with the vehicle system and populates a table outlining the connections available and possible features that are related an example of which is shown in . In particular the connections manager identifies vehicle phone and consumer device ports or other devices such as those not permanently affixed to the vehicle e.g. an accessory DVD player . As noted the service table formation can include basic capabilities of both the vehicle and consumer devices. The process of identifying all devices possible to connect with the system is a two part process 1 search available 2 identify capabilities. To search the available the connection manager uses discovery methods on all of its connection ports. For ports with discovery protocols this can be aggregation of the capabilities advertised by the discovery protocols e.g. Bluetooth SDAP . For ports without discovery protocols the system can first determine if a device is physically or wirelessly connected and then attempt to communicate with the device by known supported language methods. If successful the device type is recorded. To identify the capabilities the connection manager will first reference the known capabilities directed by the standards for the connection. This can be the capabilities defined by the Bluetooth protocol or the capabilities available for a specific type of connected device over USB for example. is an illustration setting forth an example of a priority system for ports without a discovery protocol. For example priority 1 is a USB MHL connection if the transport type is wired in order to have a high quality powered connection. Priority 2 can be an HDMI connection if the transport type is wired in order to have a robust connection. Priority 3 can be a DLNA Wi Fi connection if the transport type is wireless in order to have an easy connection using standard codecs and priority 4 can be a Bluetooth SPP connection if the transport type is wireless which is a lower quality non powered connection. Depending on system hardware and software only a portion of the connection methods may be available. For example on some systems there may also be constraints on the ability to run multiple connections or services concurrently. Accordingly the connections manager identifies those ports that are available for use. The connections manager also identifies the protocols profiles that are available to the ports an example of which is shown in which is described in greater detail below.

In this example phone voice communication can use a Bluetooth HFP connection or an auxiliary jack connection. Phone data can use a Bluetooth HFP connection a Bluetooth PBAP connection or an Infrared Serial connection. Music Audio can use a Bluetooth A2DP connection a Wi Fi connection or an auxiliary jack connection. Music data can use a Bluetooth SPP connection a Bluetooth AVRCP connection a Wi Fi connection or an Infrared Serial connection. Video audio can us a Bluetooth A2DP connection an HDMI connection a Wi Fi connection or an auxiliary jack connection. Video data can use a Bluetooth SPP connection Bluetooth AVRCP connection an HDMI connection or a Wi Fi connection. Internet access can be via a Bluetooth SPP connection a Wi Fi connection or a BEV charging connection.

Once the service table information has been determined the system determines the connection pairings between connections protocols and the requested services features. In an embodiment rules and guidelines are applied for the preferred transfer medium relating to the specific situation and combination of technologies being utilized. In an embodiment these rules may include primary and secondary choices for a specific data type for a particular service feature. For example the software may choose to use Bluetooth SPP to move Audio metadata to the vehicle. This can correspond to the text and graphics from an Internet Radio station. The software can also have the capability to stream high definition video to the vehicle for routing to the rear entertainment system. The video may have a preferred transfer medium of the Bluetooth SPP but considering that the SPP is to be used concurrently and weighing the other methods for music data the connections manager or the corresponding application in the MCD connections manager may choose to make the connection over an ad hoc Wi Fi connection. At that point if the rules are applied by software external to the vehicle e.g. in the MCD the choices can be sent to the connections manager and that selection can be entered into a table reference for the vehicle s systems. That table displays the chosen connection methods for each service see . In one embodiment a basic table with weighted connection methods may be used by the system. Such a table can include the rules shown in . Here the weighting of the video connection methods is shown for one embodiment based on the available connection.

With reference to the example illustrated in the assigned connections protocols for each feature service are Phone voice uses Bluetooth HFP Phone data uses Bluetooth HFP and Bluetooth PBAP music audio uses Bluetooth A2DP music data uses Bluetooth SPP video audio uses Wi Fi video data uses Wi Fi and internet access is accomplished using a Bluetooth SPP connection.

Additional features will be possible using this technology. In an embodiment logic is included in memory for example to manage the battery life of the phone and adapt depending on power requirements. An example of this is to allow Wi Fi to be active only when the system is plugged into a power source. Also the system can provide choices to the customer to adapt the connections in various situations e.g. while the connection is being used or while the vehicle is in operation. Then if there is a need to change a setting low battery and high system power draw the customer can reconfigure in a quick convenient way.

Reference in the specification to one embodiment or to an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiments is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment or an embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some portions of the detailed description are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps instructions leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like. Furthermore it is also convenient at times to refer to certain arrangements of steps requiring physical manipulations or transformation of physical quantities or representations of physical quantities as modules or code devices without loss of generality.

However all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or determining or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device such as a specific computing machine that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Certain aspects of the embodiments include process steps and instructions described herein in the form of an algorithm. It should be noted that the process steps and instructions of the embodiments can be embodied in software firmware or hardware and when embodied in software could be downloaded to reside on and be operated from different platforms used by a variety of operating systems. The embodiments can also be in a computer program product which can be executed on a computing system.

The embodiments also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the purposes e.g. a specific computer or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but is not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards application specific integrated circuits ASICs or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and each coupled to a computer system bus. Memory can include any of the above and or other devices that can store information data programs and can be transient or non transient medium where a non transient or non transitory medium can include memory storage that stores information for more than a minimal duration. Furthermore the computers referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

The algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may also be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the method steps. The structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description herein. In addition the embodiments are not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the embodiments as described herein and any references herein to specific languages are provided for disclosure of enablement and best mode.

In addition the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the embodiments which is set forth in the claims.

While particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described herein it is to be understood that the embodiments are not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein and that various modifications changes and variations may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the methods and apparatuses of the embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the embodiments as defined in the appended claims.

