---

title: Method for soft tissue repair with free floating suture locking member
abstract: A suture anchor device and method for attaching soft tissue to bone includes an anchor body and a suture locking wedge movably disposed within the anchor body. The suture locking wedge includes lateral portions which engage slots or windows in the anchor body. Tension applied to one limb of a suture causes the suture locking wedge to translate and rotate to a position which compresses the suture, thereby locking the suture in the anchor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09023083&OS=09023083&RS=09023083
owner: ArthroCare Corporation
number: 09023083
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120127
---
The present invention relates to an apparatus and method for repairing soft tissue regions. More particularly the present invention relates to an apparatus and method for adjustably affixing torn soft tissues to a region of bone.

It is an increasingly common problem for tendons and other soft connective tissues to tear or to detach from associated bone. One type of tear or detachment is a rotator cuff tear wherein the supraspinatus tendon separates from the humerus causing pain and loss of ability to elevate and rotate the arm. Complete separation of tissue from the bone can occur if the shoulder is subjected to gross trauma but typically the tear begins as a small lesion especially in older patients.

There are various surgical approaches for repair of the rotator cuff one known as the classic open and another as the mini open . The classic open approach requires a large incision and complete detachment of the deltoid muscle from the acromion to facilitate exposure. The cuff is debrided to ensure suture attachment to viable tissue and to create a reasonable edge approximation. In addition the humeral head is abraded or notched at the proposed soft tissue to bone reattachment point as healing is enhanced on a raw bone surface. A series of small diameter holes referred to as transosseous tunnels are punched through the bone laterally from the abraded or notched surface to a point on the outside surface of the greater tuberosity commonly a distance of 2 to 3 cm. Finally the cuff is sutured and secured to the bone by pulling the suture ends through the transosseous tunnels and tying them together using the bone between two successive tunnels as a bridge after which the deltoid muscle must be surgically reattached to the acromion.

The mini open technique differs from the classic approach by working through a smaller incision and splitting rather than detaching the deltoid. Additionally this procedure is typically performed in conjunction with arthroscopic acromial decompression. Once the deltoid is split it is refracted to expose the rotator cuff tear. As before the cuff is debrided the humeral head is abraded and the so called transosseous tunnels are punched through the bone or suture anchors are inserted. Following the suturing of the rotator cuff to the humeral head the split deltoid is surgically repaired.

Less invasive arthroscopic techniques continue to be developed in an effort to address the shortcomings of open surgical repair. Working through small trocar portals that minimize disruption of the deltoid muscle surgeons have been able to reattach the rotator cuff using various suture anchor and suture configurations. The rotator cuff is sutured intracorporeally and an anchor is driven into bone at a location appropriate for repair. Rather than thread the suture through transosseous tunnels which are difficult or impossible to create arthroscopically using current techniques the repair is completed by tying the cuff down against bone using the anchor and suture.

The skill level required to facilitate an entirely arthroscopic repair of the rotator cuff is fairly high. Intracorporeal suturing is clumsy and time consuming and only the simplest stitch patterns can be utilized. Extracorporeal knot tying is somewhat less difficult but the tightness of the knots is difficult to judge and the tension cannot later be adjusted. Also because of the use of suture anchors to provide a suture fixation point in the bone the knots that secure the soft tissues to the anchor by necessity leave the knot bundle on top of the soft tissues. In the case of rotator cuff repair this means that the knot bundle is left in the shoulder capsule where it can be felt by the patient postoperatively when the patient exercises the shoulder joint. So knots tied arthroscopically are difficult to achieve impossible to adjust and are located in less than optimal areas of the shoulder. Suture tension is also impossible to measure and adjust once the knot has been fixed.

There are various suture anchor designs available for use by an orthopedic surgeon for attachment of soft tissues to bone. A number these designs include use of a locking plug which is forced into a cavity of the anchor body to secure the suture therein. Although there is some merit to this approach for eliminating the need for knots in the attachment of sutures to bone a problem with being able to properly set the tension in the sutures exists. The user is required to pull on the sutures until appropriate tension is achieved and then to set the plug portion into the suture anchor portion. This action increases the tension in the sutures and may garrote the soft tissues or increase the tension in the sutures beyond the tensile strength of the material breaking the sutures. In addition the minimal surface area provided by this anchor design for pinching or locking the sutures in place will abrade or damage the suture such that the suture s ability to resist load will be greatly compromised. Additionally once the suture is fixed the suture cannot be adjusted or retensioned. This is a shortcoming of such designs because it is not uncommon for a physician to desire to reposition or adjust the tissue location and suture after the anchor has been set.

A suture anchor that addresses some of the shortcomings mentioned above is shown in . Anchor may include a rotatable or pivoting cam to lock suture within suture anchor . Suture leg may be bound or connected to tissue tissue not shown and suture leg may be free to be adjusted by the practitioner. In the bound suture tension T is minimal as the tissue may not be adjacent the anchor and the practitioner is applying open suture tension T to draw the suture around the cam and draw the tissue attached to bound suture leg closer to the suture anchor and into engagement with the bone. As the bound suture tension T increases due to the tissue being closer to its target location T may begin to approximate or exceed the open suture tension T and the resulting frictional force Fbetween the cam and the suture may cause the cam to rotate clockwise and clamp down and lock or wedge the suture as shown in . Problematically as the coefficient of friction between the cam and suture decreases such as for example in low friction environments when certain low friction sutures are used and or liquids present the suture may slip and cam may not rotate or the lock force may not be sufficient i.e. the lock mechanism may have a tendency to fail. This is undesirable.

Other knotless suture anchors employ axially or translating wedges to actuate the suture lock. For example U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 520 980 and 6 585 730 both issued to Foerster describe locking wedges which move in an axial direction. The wedge is guided by anchor structures in an axial direction. Frictional forces arise between the contacting surfaces. Consequently the locking force on the suture is reduced by the frictional forces arising between the wedge surface and the anchor body. It would be desirable to utilize the entire locking force of the wedge to lock the suture without any frictional losses. Frictional losses between the wedge and the anchor body are undesirable because more force is required to lock and unlock the anchor.

Thus a suture anchor device and method for repairing the rotator cuff or fixing other soft tissues to bone wherein suture tension can be adjusted released and conveniently retensioned after it is deployed and locked and that maintains a strong locking force and functions reliably in a low friction environment is desirable.

It is also desirable that the suture anchor is adapted to lock and unlock the suture when tension is applied to a particular suture leg and wherein all the force arising from the suture tension is directed to locking and unlocking the suture without frictional losses.

It is also desirable that there is no requirement for the surgeon to tie a knot to attach the suture to the suture anchor and wherein the procedure associated with the new approach is better for the patient saves time is uncomplicated to use and easily taught to practitioners having skill in the art.

An anchor device for attaching soft tissue to bone with a suture where the suture is threaded through the anchor device and has a tissue limb of the suture and a free limb of the suture. The anchor device comprises an anchor body wall defining a lumen through the anchor body. A suture locking wedge is movably disposed at least partially within the lumen. The suture locking wedge is in contact with the suture when the suture is threaded through the anchor device and looped around the suture locking wedge such that when a tension force is applied to the tissue limb of the suture the suture locking wedge is urged into a first position in which the suture is compressed between the suture locking wedge and a first contact location of the anchor body. When a second tension force is applied to the free limb of the suture the suture locking wedge is urged away from the first contact location such that the suture is not compressed.

In another embodiment the suture locking wedge cooperates with the anchor body to move with a first degree of freedom and a second degree of freedom with respect to the lumen. When a first tension force is applied to the tissue limb of the suture the suture locking wedge is urged into a suture locking position in which the suture is compressed between the suture locking wedge and a first contact location of the anchor body. When a second tension force is applied to the free limb of the suture the suture locking wedge is urged away from the first contact location such that the suture is not compressed and can slide freely around the suture locking wedge.

In another embodiment the first degree of freedom is rotation and the second degree of freedom is translation. The rotation may be about an axis perpendicular to a longitudinal axis of the suture anchor device. The translation may be in a direction parallel to the longitudinal axis.

In another embodiment the anchor device further comprises a gap between the suture locking wedge and the lumen such that the suture locking wedge remains substantially free floating when not in the suture locking position.

In another embodiment the anchor body further comprises a bone fixation structure for securing the anchor device in the bone wherein the bone fixation structure is selected from the group consisting of threads ridges barbs and wings.

In another embodiment the suture locking wedge comprises a first arm and a second arm the first arm having a different length than the second arm.

In another embodiment an anchor device for attaching soft tissue to bone with a suture includes an anchor body comprising a lumen wherein inner walls which define the lumen comprise at least one window. The anchor device also includes a suture locking wedge movably disposed within the lumen. The suture locking wedge is cooperatively engaged with the window of the anchor body such that the suture locking wedge is movable between a first position and a second position such that when a tension force is applied to the tissue limb of the suture the suture locking wedge is urged into the first position in which the suture is compressed between the suture locking wedge and a first contact location of the body. When a second tension force is applied to the free limb of the suture the suture locking wedge is urged away from the first contact location such that the suture is not compressed.

In another embodiment the suture locking wedge has at least one extension member extending laterally from an edge of the suture locking wedge and sized to interface with the window. The at least one extension member may comprise a plurality of pins.

In another embodiment the suture locking wedge has two substantially planar surfaces which contact the suture. In another embodiment the suture locking wedge has a uniform height or thickness. The suture locking wedge may have a height that is less than or equal to the diameter of the suture.

In another embodiment the suture anchor has an elastic or deformable portion. The suture locking wedge may comprise an elastic section which deforms when the suture locking wedge is placed in the first position. In one embodiment the anchor body comprises a slit or cut allowing deformation. The anchor device may further comprise a flexible tether extending between the suture locking wedge and the body.

In another embodiment the window comprises a plurality of regions. The plurality of regions may include a first region corresponding to the suture locking wedge in the first position and a second region overlapping with the first region and corresponding to the suture locking wedge in the second position. The first region may have a trapezoidal shape.

In another embodiment the first region comprises a first distal flat section which forms a first suture locking wedge angle with a radial axis of the anchor device and the first suture locking wedge angle ranges from 15 to 30 degrees.

In another embodiment the second region comprises a second distal flat section which forms a second suture locking wedge angle with the radial axis of the anchor device and the second suture locking wedge angle ranges from 5 to 15 degrees less than the first suture locking wedge angle. In another embodiment the second suture locking wedge angle is about 15 degrees.

In another embodiment the suture locking wedge has a shape such that when the suture locking wedge is urged into the first position the suture locking wedge compresses the suture at a second contact location of the anchor body in addition to the first contact location. In one embodiment the first contact location and the second contact location are on opposite walls of the lumen.

In another embodiment a method for securing soft tissue to bone comprises a securing a first limb of a length of suture to the soft tissue to be attached to the bone b extending the length of suture into an anchor body and looping the length of suture around a suture locking member movably disposed within the anchor body and such that a second limb of the suture extends from the anchor body c fixing the anchor body within the bone d applying a first tension on the second limb of the length of suture such that the length of suture slides around the suture locking member so as to move the first limb of the suture and the soft tissue towards the anchor body and until a second tension on the first limb of the suture arises from the soft tissue and e releasing the second limb thereby halting the application of the first tension on the second limb such that the second tension on the first limb of the suture causes the suture locking member to move from the unlocked position to the locked position thereby compressing the length of suture between the suture locking member and the anchor body.

The method may further comprise manually drawing on the first limb to increase an amount of compression on the length of suture between the suture locking member and the anchor body.

The method may further comprise releasing the suture from being compressed. Releasing may be performed by applying a third tension to the second or free limb of the suture thereby causing the suture locking member to rotate and translate from the locked position to the unlocked position. Additionally after the step of releasing the method may further comprise re tensioning the suture by drawing on the second or free limb of the suture to reposition the soft tissue relative to the anchor body.

The method may further comprise locking or relocking the suture anchor by manually applying a fourth tension on the first or tissue bound limb of the suture to manipulate the suture locking member into the locked position

In another embodiment a method for repairing soft connective tissue with a suture comprises a providing an anchor device the anchor device comprising an anchor body and a movable suture locking member at least partially disposed within the anchor body the suture locking member cooperatively engaged within the anchor body to move between a locked position in which a length of the suture is compressed between a first contact surface of the suture locking member and the anchor body and an unlocked position in which a gap is defined between the first contact surface of the suture locking member and the anchor body such that the length of suture is not substantially compressed between the suture locking member and the anchor body b securing a first limb of the suture to a first tissue section c extending the length of suture in the anchor body and around the suture locking member such that a second limb of the suture extends therefrom d embedding the anchor body in a second tissue section e approximating the first tissue section towards the second tissue section by applying a first tension force to the second limb of the suture so as to slide the length of suture around the suture locking member thereby creating a second tension force on the first limb and f adjusting the first tension to be less than the second tension thereby causing the suture locking member to move until the suture locking member is seated in the suture locking position thereby compressing the length of suture. In one embodiment the step of adjusting the first tension to be less than the second tension causes the suture locking member to move by rotating and translating.

In another embodiment the step of embedding the anchor body in a second tissue section is performed by embedding the anchor body in a bone.

In another embodiment the step of adjusting the first tension to be less than the second tension is performed by applying or increasing the second tension force to the first or tissue limb of the suture. The step of applying the second tension force to the first limb may be effectuated by hand.

In another embodiment the adjusting the first tension to be less than the second tension is effectuated by halting the applying a first tension force to the second limb during the approximating step.

In another embodiment a method for repairing tissue with a suture anchor and a suture comprises a securing a tissue limb of the suture to a first tissue section b inserting a length of the suture into a lumen of the suture anchor and looping the length of the suture about a suture locking member movably disposed within the lumen of the suture anchor such that a free limb of the suture exits the lumen proximal end c inserting the suture anchor into a second tissue section d applying a first tension on the free limb of the suture such that the length of suture slides around the suture locking member drawing the first tissue section towards the suture anchor until a second tension is applied on the tissue limb of the suture from the first tissue section and e halting the applying a first tension on the free limb while the second tension is applied on the tissue limb of the suture to cause the suture locking member to move from a suture unlocked position to a suture locked position compressing the suture between the suture locking member and the suture anchor. In one embodiment the halting the applying a first tension on the free limb causes the suture locking member to move by rotating and translating.

In another embodiment the rotating and translating the suture locking member seats the suture locking member in complimentary engagement with the lumen of the suture anchor to compress the suture in the suture locked position.

In another embodiment a method for repairing soft tissue with a suture anchor and a suture comprises a fixing the suture anchor in a bone b applying a first tension on the free first limb of the suture such that the length of suture slides around the suture locking member drawing the soft tissue towards the suture anchor until a second tension is applied on the second limb of the suture from the soft tissue and c moving in two degrees of freedom the suture locking member from a suture unlocked position to a suture locked position thereby compressing the suture between the suture locking member and the suture anchor. In one embodiment the moving is effectuated by pausing the applying the first tension on the first limb of the suture while the second tension is applied on the second limb of the suture.

In another embodiment the moving comprises moving in a translational rotational angular non linear direction or combination thereof

In another embodiment the step of applying a first tension on the free first limb of the suture is carried out until the soft tissue is moved within a threshold distance from the anchor body such that the second tension arises on the second limb from the soft tissue. The threshold distance may range from 2 to 8 mm. or in some embodiments from 3 to 6 mm.

In another embodiment a method for repairing a soft tissue comprises a providing a plurality of anchor bodies each comprising a suture locking wedge movably disposed therein the plurality of anchor bodies including a first anchor body and a last anchor body b securing a first limb of a length of suture to the first tissue section c threading the length of suture through each anchor body of the plurality of anchor bodies until the suture is looped around the suture locking wedge of the last anchor body forming an intermediate limb of suture extending into the last anchor body and a free limb of suture extending from the last anchor body and such that a sequence of anchor bodies is defined with the suture extending from the first anchor body to the last anchor body d fixing the plurality of anchor bodies in the soft tissue such that the suture length extending between two sequential anchor bodies spans the region e decreasing the size of the region by applying a first tension to the free limb of the suture so as to move at least one of the first tissue section and second tissue section of soft tissue towards the other tissue section and f locking the suture in the last anchor body by moving the suture locking wedge to a suture locking position wherein the moving is effectuated by application of a second tension on the intermediate limb of the suture.

In one embodiment the region comprises a tear and decreasing the size of the region comprises closing the tear. The soft tissue may comprise meniscus.

In another embodiment the step of providing a plurality of anchor bodies comprises providing at least 5 anchor bodies.

In another embodiment the region does not comprise a tear and the method comprises tightening or plicating the soft tissue. In another embodiment the soft tissue comprises capsular tissue.

In another embodiment moving the suture locking wedge is effectuated by pulling on the intermediate limb of the suture by hand.

In another embodiment moving the suture locking wedge is effectuated by halting applying the first tension to the free limb.

In another embodiment the step of moving the suture locking wedge comprises rotating an elongate locking arm extending from the suture locking wedge to compress the length of suture between a first contact location of the suture locking wedge and the last anchor body.

In another embodiment the step of moving the suture locking wedge comprises rotating and translating the suture locking wedge.

In another embodiment the step of moving the suture locking wedge comprises moving the suture locking wedge in an angular and translational dimension to the first suture locking position.

In another embodiment the step of moving the suture locking wedge comprises loading the suture locking wedge in the first suture locking position with a biasing member in the last anchor body.

Before the present invention is described in detail it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to particular variations set forth herein as various changes or modifications may be made to the invention described and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. As will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading this disclosure each of the individual embodiments described and illustrated herein has discrete components and features which may be readily separated from or combined with the features of any of the other several embodiments without departing from the scope or spirit of the present invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation material composition of matter process process act s or step s to the objective s spirit or scope of the present invention. All such modifications are intended to be within the scope of the claims made herein.

Methods recited herein may be carried out in any order of the recited events which is logically possible as well as the recited order of events. Furthermore where a range of values is provided it is understood that every intervening value between the upper and lower limit of that range and any other stated or intervening value in that stated range is encompassed within the invention. Also it is contemplated that any optional feature of the inventive variations described may be set forth and claimed independently or in combination with any one or more of the features described herein.

All existing subject matter mentioned herein e.g. publications patents patent applications and hardware is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety except insofar as the subject matter may conflict with that of the present invention in which case what is present herein shall prevail .

The following co pending patent applications which are being submitted contemporaneously with the present application are incorporated by reference in their entirety U.S. Ser. No. 13 359 631 entitled ROTATING LOCKING MEMBER SUTURE ANCHOR AND METHOD FOR SOFT TISSUE REPAIR U.S. Ser. No. 13 359 642 entitled FREE FLOATING WEDGE SUTURE ANCHOR FOR SOFT TISSUE REPAIR U.S. Ser. No. 13 359 673 entitled RESTRICTED WEDGE SUTURE ANCHOR AND METHOD FOR SOFT TISSUE REPAIR U.S. Ser. No. 13 359 826 entitled BIASED WEDGE SUTURE ANCHOR AND METHOD FOR SOFT TISSUE REPAIR all of which are filed on the same date as the present application and all of which are commonly assigned to ArthroCare Corporation.

Reference to a singular item includes the possibility that there are plural of the same items present. More specifically as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an said and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. It is further noted that the claims may be drafted to exclude any optional element. As such this statement is intended to serve as antecedent basis for use of such exclusive terminology as solely only and the like in connection with the recitation of claim elements or use of a negative limitation. It is also to be appreciated that unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs.

The present invention provides an improved knotless suture anchor apparatus for anchoring a length of suture with respect to a bone structure. In an exemplary embodiment described herein the apparatus is used to anchor a length of suture to the humeral bone of the human shoulder. The length of suture is desirably looped through soft tissue such as a rotator cuff tendon to approximate and fix the soft tissue with respect to the bone structure. It should be understood however that the suture anchor apparatus may be utilized to secure a length of suture to anatomies other than in a bone structure. In this regard the preferred apparatus includes an anchor body within which the length of suture may be adjusted freely and then anchored or secured without knots. If the anchor body is to be implanted within a body tissue structure on the anchor s exterior may be provided for securing it therein. In a preferred embodiment the anchor body is inserted within a bone structure and a pair of wings are deployed from the exterior of the anchor body to hold it within the cavity.

As mentioned above the present invention is particularly well suited for repairing rotator cuff injuries by re attaching the rotator cuff tendon to the outside of the humeral head. Embodiments of the present invention permit minimally invasive surgeries on such injuries and greatly facilitate rapid and secure fixation of the rotator cuff tendon to the humeral head. However it should be understood that the same principles described herein apply to the repair of other injuries in which soft tissue is to be re attached to a bone structure or other tissue region.

Embodiments of the present invention permit the user to insert at least one anchor into bone independently of any other anchor lock an anchor in the bone allow the user to subsequently tension or loosen a length of suture or wire between the anchors or between the anchor and soft tissue to affix the soft tissue immobilize the suture or wire release and retension the suture and then disassociate the inserter assembly from the at least one anchor leaving the at least one anchor and the soft tissue repaired. Such an anchor inserter assembly may preferably eliminate the need to separately pass suture or wire eliminate the need to tie knots allow the procedure to be performed without the need to move an arthroscope from an articular side to a bursal side of the cuff and by virtue of the small diameter of the anchor implants reduce the size of the hole placed in any tissue if passing the implant through.

In the embodiment shown in the lumen commences at a proximal aperture or opening and extends distally along the longitudinal axis of the anchor body . The axial lumen is shown as being substantially cylindrical or tubular. However the shape of the lumen or cavity may vary.

At least one suture which includes at least one bound leg is shown threaded through the opening and extends distally through the lumen around the suture locking member or wedge and may subsequently be redirected proximally back through the lumen and out of opening to result in a free leg . The bound side or leg is considered bound because in practice this leg limb or end of the suture is bound to the soft or connective tissues to be attached to the target tissue such as bone by virtue of passing the sutures through the connective or soft tissues using conventional suturing techniques known in the art. The free side or leg is considered free because the surgeon or practitioner in practice has control over this leg limb or end of the suture with his or her hands or appropriate instrumentation.

The suture locking wedge is shown being movable within the lumen of the anchor body. The suture locking wedge is free to move linearly angularly and to rotate within the lumen. A window cooperates with lateral edges of the suture locking wedge to allow movement in multiple degrees of freedom yet maintain the suture locking wedge within the lumen of the anchor. In a sense the suture locking wedge is free floating.

In a first or open configuration as shown in suture locking wedge is operable to allow suture free leg to be pulled so that the suture may slide freely around suture locking wedge and into out of and through suture locking portion so as to pull soft tissue attached to the bound leg closer to suture anchor . As the tissue is pulled closer to the anchor a tension force arises on the tissue bound leg . Tension may also arise by the surgeon pulling on the tissue bound leg . Once a sufficient amount of tension is present on the bound leg the surgeon may adjust e.g. release reduce or halt the tension on the free limb so as to cause the suture locking wedge to translate and rotate and to thereby lock the suture against a portion of the anchor body .

The shape of the suture locking wedge may vary. In the suture locking wedge is shown as a simple plate having two opposing substantially planar surfaces. The suture locking wedge need not have one side or edge thicker than another. Indeed the suture locking wedge may have but need not be limited to a cuboid like shape. Non limiting examples of cross sectional shapes of the suture locking wedge include square rectangle trapezoidal oval arcuate triangular and parallelogram.

Suture locking wedge may preferably have a smooth surface and more specifically a smooth distal surface to allow for easy suture sliding around the suture locking wedge surface during use. Additionally the suture locking wedge may have an elongate nest or groove not shown to provide some limitation to any lateral motion of the suture i.e. to keep the suture from slipping off the suture locking wedge . The suture itself may also preferably comprise a low friction material such as polyester suture to create an overall low friction environment. Examples of sutures include without limitation low friction UHMWPE suture and polyester suture.

The suture locking wedge may be formed of or comprise metal polymer or some other material. In a preferred embodiment the wedge is formed from a riGid relatively low friction material so as to allow easy sliding of the suture. Additionally elastic or resilient materials or components may be incorporated into the suture locking wedge and or the anchor body. As the suture locking wedge is urged into a locked configuration the elastic component s may deform which can increase the clamping force on the suture.

With reference to an anchor body is shown having a substantially cylindrical or tubular shape and two windows or slots . Preferably but not necessarily the windows or slots extend completely through the wall of the anchor. The windows and slots may be open or covered. Construction of the windows or slots may be carried out utilizing various techniques including for example machining Preferably the anchor body is a metal such as stainless steel and the slots are laser cut.

The windows allow the suture locking wedge to freely rotate and translate yet prevent it from escaping from the tube. A tether or strap not shown may optionally be connected between the suture locking wedge and the anchor body to prevent the suture locking wedge from exiting the anchor body. The tether may be made of a polymer or metal and serves to maintain the wedge in the lumen. Such a redundancy is an added safeguard. Additional means for holding the suture locking wedge in position or biasing the suture locking wedge are described in U.S. Ser. No. 13 359 826 filed Jan. 27 2012 and entitled Biased Wedge Suture Anchor and Method for Soft Tissue Repair .

An enlarged view of a shape of an exemplary window is shown in . The window includes a plurality of overlapping regions . The regions correspond to certain positions of the suture locking wedge to lock the suture and to allow the suture to be drawn or pulled.

Region is shown having a parallelogram like shape. It also includes at least one substantially flat surface that forms an angle a with a radial or central axis C of the suture anchor. Central axis C is perpendicular to the longitudinal axis L . When the suture is put in tension during locking the suture locking wedge is manipulated towards this flat surface . Further details of the windows their function and suture locking are discussed below in connection with .

Although not shown in this example the anchor body may comprise additional openings or apertures. For example apertures may provide space or room for suture routing. Suture routing in some instances requires the suture to be doubled up around a preloaded snare type device not shown and pulled through the anchor. More space at the locations along the suture path where the suture turns is desirable. To this end apertures are positioned at locations along the suture path where the suture changes direction. The apertures are preferably sized to be at least as wide as the suture diameter. However the shape size and location of the apertures may vary. When the anchor is loaded with a suture for example a portion of the suture may protrude or ride outside of the anchor body. Alternative embodiments may have additional apertures elsewhere on the anchor body such as for example on the opposite or inferior side of the anchor body.

Additionally with reference to at least one slit or cut may be added to the anchor body . For example slit may be laser cut into the body. The slit shown in allows anchor body to deform to some degree when the suture locking wedge and suture are urged into a suture locking configuration as will be discussed in more detail below. Slit provides some elasticity to the anchor.

With reference to B the distal end section of suture anchor may comprise a piercing tip to penetrate soft tissue and be driven into and through tissue and bone. The piercing tip may facilitate the anchor to be pounded or driven into bone with a mallet or hammer like instrument. Piercing tip may be hollow or solid depending on strength or weight requirements and manufacturing technique. Suture anchor may be preferably fabricated from a metal such as 316L stainless steel although other materials such as titanium may be used. Alternative embodiments may include a blunted tip for inserting into a prepared bone passage or a threaded or tissue cutting tip.

After the anchor is positioned within the target tissue the anchor is fixed so as to remain in place. The suture anchor of the present invention may incorporate a number of features or structures to achieve a bone lock including for example assuming a larger profile using a variety of anchoring means such as expansion ribs molybolts rivets wings and other mechanisms. Alternate embodiments may include a threaded ridged or barbed portion on the outer surface to lock into the wall of the target tissue not shown . In one embodiment proximal end may include an anchoring element with two deformable wings that may be permanently or reversibly deformed or outwardly deployable to have a larger profile so as to anchor or fix the suture anchor within the target tissue.

The loading or open configuration allows the suture to slide freely around suture locking wedge . A tension T may be applied to suture free end as locking member remains in an open position such that the practitioner may slidingly draw suture around suture locking wedge . Consequently tissue connected to the tissue side or bound leg is positioned or approximated towards the anchor as desired.

As tension T grows on suture leg due to tissue approximation and the surgeon releases or modifies the tension on the free limb the suture locking wedge translates and rotates as shown in until it reaches a final locking position shown in . The suture anchor design shown in provides an area or region through which the suture locking wedge moves as it transitions from a suture loading position to the final suture locking position. The dual use of this area i.e. for loading and locking enables the suture locking anchor to be small. Indeed the height or thickness of the suture locking wedge may be less than or equal to the diameter of the suture. The anchor body may be sized correspondingly small just large enough to accommodate the suture locking wedge. This configuration thus enables a robust and small suture anchor.

The suture locking wedge is manipulated into the locked position by drawing on the suture legs. More specifically a tension T is created on tissue bound end as tissue is approximated to the anchor. A force Fin the axial direction is applied the suture locking wedge urging it proximally and against the locking surfaces . Though shows pinching the suture at two locations in other embodiments the suture may be pinched at fewer or more locations. One or more locations may be used to pinch or lock the suture with the wedge.

In addition to the translation force F a second type of force or motion is applied to the suture locking wedge when tension T arises in the tissue bound suture leg . Because the suture locking wedge is free to rotate the suture locking wedge has at least a second degree of freedom namely it rotates in addition to translates . A rotation force Fon the suture locking wedge therefore arises. This force Furges the wedge in a counterclockwise direction and acts to further compress the suture against the suture contacting surfaces as the tissue bound suture leg is placed in tension. As will be discussed in more detail herein the locking or compression on the suture increases as the tension T is increased because of the translation and rotational forces placed on the suture locking wedge .

Without being bound by theory is intended to illustrate some of the mechanical dynamics of a suture lock. As shown a tension T in the tissue side of the suture loop supplies energy in the lock. The energy in the lock can be represented by normal forces at N and N where N N coefficient of friction lock force.

It can be seen that N and N vary with suture locking wedge angles a and a. As a increases N and N decrease. As a decreases N and N increase.

At a equal to 30 degrees N is estimated to be 173 of T and N is estimated to be 105 of T. At a equal to 15 degrees N increases to 126 of T. At this point the lock is at nearly 300 of T. This means the suture will lock if the coefficient of friction is greater than .

Additionally at a equal to 20 degrees and a equal to 15 degrees the lock is at 535 of T and the suture will lock if the coefficient of friction is greater than about . Thus as more and more tension is placed on the lock the walls of the tube will expand the suture will compress smaller and the wedge will rotate to smaller angles enabling it to work even more efficiently.

It is noted that the frictional losses e.g. frictional loss arising from the suture being drawn around the wedge has been omitted from the above analysis. However adding F loss would increase suture locking The frictional properties of the materials involved can be changed by altering surface roughness treatments and oxide content. As a and a get smaller the ability of the lock to function increases dramatically theoretically approaching infinity. The smaller angles also have a binding affect on the lock which can help the lock function in cyclic loading environments. In one embodiment a ranges from 15 30 degrees and a is 5 15 degrees less than a.

Decreasing angles a a however can also have adverse effects. For example the sutures are harder to unlock by pulling on suture tails as angles a and a become smaller. This is because unlocking is performed by rotating wedge around point . This is accomplished by pulling on suture tails and the friction between suture and wedge at grabs the wedge at and pulls it about point on slot . As this rotation starts point on slot can lift a little to let the suture pass the other side of wedge as well. The friction at increases as a gets larger making this unlocking dynamic easier.

Utilizing a combination of the above described parameters the suture anchor of the present invention moves the suture locking wedge from the open loading position to a locked configuration. The anchor body cooperates with the suture locking wedge to move the wedge with multiple degrees of freedom. Limiting the points of contact between the suture locking wedge and the window e.g. to only one point of contact enables most of the tension energy supplied by the suture to be translated into the lock. Consequently the suture locking wedge of the present invention can apply a greater clamping force than a standard plug or cam having only one degree of freedom. As discussed below the anchor may be conveniently implanted tensioned locked unlocked and retensioned as desired.

Anchor may then be brought into contact against the underlying bone region using instrument handle . Now with reference to the proximal end of the instrument or handle may be tapped e.g. by using a mallet to drive the suture anchor into the bone at a depth of for example approximately 6 mm. If viewed through an arthroscope primary anchor may be driven into the underlying bone until an anchor depth indicator e.g. a colored marking or gradation is visible just above or at the bone as a visual indicator to the user that the appropriate depth for anchor insertion has been reached. This may indicate that the anchor wings have been inserted at the correct depth. Instrument may also have lateral aperture or opening located at the distal portion of the instrument but proximal to anchor wings operable to allow passage of suture from tissue into the anchor. Suture may then extend distally from aperture within anchor around a suture locking wedge not shown and return proximally within instrument not shown here and may connect with a portion of the instrument handle operable for managing the suture during insertion and tensioning.

With suture anchor suitably implanted the anchor wings may be deployed within the bone using instrument to lock the position of anchor and to prevent or inhibit anchor from being pulled out of bone as shown in .

Anchor may then be released from instrument which may be achieved by a variety of mechanical means operable to have a weakness or failure point that fractures or disconnects upon application of a force or torque. For example instrument may comprise a die or driver that moves relative to the anchoring structure so as to urge the anchoring structure radially outwards. Some methods for this type of release are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 585 730 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. Also it is to be understood that a wide variety of structures may be included with the suture anchor to implant the anchor in bone including without limitation barbs ridges threads etc. Aspects of an instrument and method described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2009 0069823 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety may be used to insert and deploy anchor . Additionally the anchor may be implanted in other manners and without a sophisticated instrument as described above.

To effect the rotator cuff repair the practitioner may first create an incision in the patient s shoulder into which may be inserted a trocar as shown in . The trocar permits access to the procedural site for visualization instruments as well as working instruments and permits the procedure to be completed arthroscopically. Anchor may then be connected with suture and then inserted according to methods described herein. Insertion to the cortical layer is important to ensure anchoring structure gains good purchase on the bone. Anchoring structure is deployed at which point the deployment instrument may be disconnected from the anchor as discussed earlier and removed from the site.

With reference to suture locking wedge is shown in an open position meaning that the suture free end may be freely tensioned or withdrawn proximally to draw tissue to the correct location for reattachment to the bone. As discussed herein the bound leg or legs of the suture have been connected with the tissue or tendon and may extend through a lateral aperture in the delivery instrument to gain access to the suture anchor about the suture locking wedge until such time as the tendon binding in the bound leg of the suture creates a tension in the suture . This will occur when the tendon has been drawn toward the anchor as shown in and is itself under appropriate tension for an anatomically proper repair and otherwise snugly situated with respect thereto. Non limiting examples of threshold distances between the tissue and the proximal end of the anchor range from 2 8 mm and more preferably 3 6 mm. The suture may be drawn by hand by instrument or a combination thereof.

Once the tension on the bound limb is present the practitioner may release or otherwise modify the tension on the free limb so as to allow the tension in the suture bound leg to move the suture locking wedge . In the embodiment shown in the suture locking wedge translates and then rotates within window to the locked position as shown in .

The suture locking mechanism of the present invention may be unlocked. It is reversible. Retensioning may be possible to permit the continued adjustability of the bound end by applying tensile force to the free end of the suture. This is useful as a surgeon will often find that during the course of a procedure after the tendon soft tissue has been brought into what is believed to be a desired position relative to the bone to which it is being secured and the suture has been locked into place to retain the tendon in that orientation a further adjustment is necessary or desired to optimize the outcome.

For example after the free end has been pulled proximally sufficiently such that a tension is created in the bound end due to approximation of the tendon to the bone and the suture is locked by the suture locking wedge the bound end is anchored in a fixed position. This ensures that the tendon is not movable relative to the bone after completion of the procedure. However if the practitioner requires the suture locking wedge to be unlocked the practitioner may do so by applying sufficient tension on the free end possibly also in combination with releasing tension on the bound legs so as to permit adjustment of the size of the suture loop through the tendon which in turn permits adjustment or fine tuning of the position of the tendon with respect to the bone. The practitioner may make these adjustments by hand or using an instrument.

Once the tendon is adjusted to the desired location the suture may then be relocked as described above. The free end may be trimmed near the proximal end of the anchor portion and the incision is closed.

Repeated stress or use of the tendon after the surgery may tend to move or dislodge the suture locking wedge. However the increased clamping force on the suture arising from the suture locking wedge having multiple degrees of freedom and consequently increased leverage serves to prevent dislodgement of the suture locking wedge. This is one advantage of the present invention even in low friction environments.

The suture locking wedge which has a plate like shape is held in the anchor by a pair of trapezoid shaped slots present in the anchor body. The suture locking wedge has a lateral portion that extends within the slots and the motion of suture locking wedge is restricted or directed by the shape of the slots .

When the suture is placed in tension as described above wedge translates and rotates proximally until it pinches the suture against the internal lumen as shown in . Suture is shown in being pinched or compressed at locations and .

The suture anchor may be pounded into the bone and fixed therein similar to that described above in connection with . In particular a driving component not shown may be releasably attached to feature . The driving component may abut surface to drive anchor into the bone.

The anchor may include a sharp trocar tip to pierce the bone. Wings and are deflected by a die member of the instrument not shown and pivot at joints and respectively thus driving the wings into the bone. Deflection of the wings into the bone fixes or secures the suture anchor in the bone. The suture may be snared and locked as described above.

The suture locking wedge has lateral edges which engage a window in the anchor body . Similar to the suture anchors described above the suture locking wedge cooperates with the anchor body to allow suture loading and upon applying tension to the sutures the wedge is moved into the suture locking position which pinches the suture against an internal surface of the suture anchor.

In the embodiment shown in the window comprises two regions namely a rectangular shaped first region which allows the suture to be loaded or snared and a second pentagon shaped region which allows the suture locking wedge to translate and rotate until the suture is compressed against the internal lumen thereby locking the suture.

Though the suture anchor shares some features in common with those described above the suture loading configuration differs in that the window has a nearly separate discrete deep pocket to contain wedge during snaring. This in combination with aperture provides sufficient space for suture snaring and routing.

The window additionally includes stop feature . Stop feature provides additional stability for the wedge during suture routing.

The stop surface has an angle of about zero degrees. As stated above in connection with this increases the locking force. However the invention is not so limited. The stop surface may make other angles with the radial plane.

With reference to the anchor body includes a slot which guides the movement of the wedge along a curved or arcuate path. The wedge engages the slot with a pin . Pin is shown extending laterally from the edge of suture locking wedge . The pin preferably does not protrude beyond the exterior surface of the anchor body.

In the unlocked or open position shown in the suture locking wedge may be held in a near horizontal position. As described above holding the suture locking wedge in a substantially horizontal or lateral position in combination with maintaining a large gap or space for the suture to be routed is desirable. Additionally although not shown the anchor body wall may have apertures to provide additional space for the suture to be routed around the suture locking wedge. Portions of the suture may reside outside or outboard of the anchor body. Therefore the suture need not be confined to the lumen as it is routed around the suture locking wedge.

After the suture anchor is loaded with the suture or snared and a tissue is attached to the leg as described above suture is drawn. As the tissue becomes properly situated with the respect to the anchor and the relative anatomy a tension force is applied to the suture locking wedge .

As the suture applies a force to the suture locking wedge the suture locking wedge translates axially and moves angularly along the arcuate path defined by the slot . Additionally because the suture locking wedge is held by only one pin suture locking wedge is free to pivot and rotate about the pin axis. Consequently the suture locking wedge translates moves angularly and rotates to compress the suture against a suture contacting surface of the body .

In this embodiment the suture contacting surface is shown being nonparallel to the axis of the lumen. However the suture contacting surface can be any angle from the axis that is suitable for the degree of locking desired.

Additionally the combination of the types of motions increases the suture locking force. The reduced number of contact points between the suture locking wedge and the anchor body allows more of the suture compressing force arising from tension on the suture to be directed to compressing the suture and not lost on friction between the anchor components. Additional suture anchor designs having guided wedges are described in U.S. Ser. No. 13 359 673 filed Jan 27 2012 and entitled Restricted Wedge Suture Anchor and Method for Soft Tissue Repair .

The suture locking member which has a cam shape is held in the anchor by a pair of slots nests or grooves present in the anchor body. In particular the cam has a lateral portion that extends within groove and the motion of cam is restricted or directed by the shape of the groove . A second mirror image nest not shown may be disposed on the opposite lateral side of anchor so that a second portion or opposite lateral side or edge of the floating cam may preferably be contained within this second nest.

As described in more detail below the cam is subjected to multiple degrees of freedom including a translational and rotational component as it moves from the open configuration to the locked configuration.

The floating cam is shown in the open position in allowing a suture free end to be pulled freely through the suture anchor . The cam has a locking arm and torque arm disposed approximately on opposite sides of the intrinsic pivot point of the cam . The relative dimensions and angles of the locking arm and torque arm allow the torque arm to have a larger moment arm than the locking arm. e.g. the torque arm is longer than the locking arm . Therefore once tension from the bound end reaches a sufficient level calculate able according to the relative moment arms between the two arms the floating cam may preferably move in a predominant clockwise direction to lock suture within suture anchor the locking surface being an inferior side. Additional suture anchor designs having torque arms and cams are described in U.S. Ser. No. 13 359 631 filed Jan. 27 2012 and entitled Rotating Locking Member Suture Anchor and Method for Soft Tissue Repair .

Although the suture locking member is shown having a cam shape the invention is not so limited and the shape of the suture locking member may vary widely.

Additionally although the slot shown in this embodiment has a bottom and does not extend completely through the anchor wall the invention need not be so limited. The slot may extend completely through the anchor body wall and the invention is only intended to be limited as recited in the appended claims.

Step states to loop the length of suture through a lumen in a body of a suture anchor device and about a suture locking wedge disposed along the length of the lumen.

The suture anchor device may be temporarily attached to an insertion instrument shaft distal end having an opening to provide a passage for the length of suture to gain access to the suture anchor device as described in previous figures. The shaft distal end may also have a driver to deploy an anchoring element disposed at the proximal end of the anchoring device.

Next the suture anchor is inserted into a portion of bone deep enough so that the anchor device proximal end is in the cancellous bone region. A marker or indicator may be present on the shaft distal end to aid in proper anchor placement. The suture anchor is then deployed to fix the anchoring portion or anchoring element in surrounding bone .

Step states to apply tension to the second limb of the length of suture such that the length of suture slides around the suture locking wedge so as to draw the first limb of the length of suture toward the suture anchor device thereby drawing the connective tissue closer to the anchor thereby securing the portion of connective tissue snugly to the portion of bone.

Step states to move the suture locking wedge to a first suture locking position thereby compressing the suture at a first contact location between the suture locking wedge and the anchor body. The movement preferably comprises rotation and translation.

This step may be carried out by modifying the tension on the second limb e.g. pausing adjusting or releasing tension on the free limb so as to allow the tension on the tissue bound end to move the suture locking wedge.

Should the connective tissue need to be relocated tension may be increased to the second length of suture e.g. the free limb sufficient enough to move the suture locking wedge so as to increase the gap and allow the length of suture to slide around the suture locking wedge such that the soft tissue may be re positioned relative to the portion of bone. After the connective tissue has been relocated the tension may then be increased to the first limb of the length of suture again so as to compress the suture again. The insertion instrument may then be removed from the area.

In another embodiment the step of applying tension on the second limb of the suture to unseat the suture locking wedge is performed subsequent to step to release the suture from being compressed.

In another embodiment the method further comprises repeating steps and to reposition the soft tissue and to re tension the suture. Applying tension may be performed by pulling on the second limb of the suture by hand or otherwise.

Repairing the capsule may be performed by stitching folds in the capsule to shrink its effective size namely plication . Tightening the capsule to the proper degree makes the shoulder more stable. Folds may be stitched in various manners. In one embodiment and with reference to a method comprises securing a first limb of a suture to a first anchor .

A second limb of the suture is threaded or looped through a second anchor . The anchors may have features similar to the anchors described herein. In the anchors shown in radially deflectable members fix the anchor to the tissue.

Next the first anchor and second anchor are placed in the tissue and connected with suture . shows the anchors separated by a region. Suture can be tightened incrementally by pulling on free suture limb or tail . The amount of tension applied to the suture decreases the size of the region tightening the capsule tissue . This affects the stability and range of motion in the joint. The method thus allows the surgeon to increase tensions until a suitable stabilization is achieved that does not affect range of motion.

Next the suture is looped or threaded through additional anchors and such that a free suture limb extends from the last threaded anchor. In the embodiment shown in anchor is the last anchor of the sequence of anchors and free suture limb is shown extending therefrom. Although five anchors are shown in the number may vary. In a preferred embodiment the number of anchors placed ranges from 2 10. Generally fewer anchors would preferably but not necessarily be deployed to close a smaller tear. More anchors e.g. 6 or more would preferably but not necessarily be deployed to close a larger tear.

Next anchors are placed one at a time in the tissue such that the suture length extending between any two anchor bodies spans the tear. For example anchor is next or adjacent in sequence to and the suture portion between the anchors and is shown spanning tear .

Next the physician pulls on the free suture limb . This step places tension on the suture spanning the tear closing the tear so that it may heal.

Other modifications and variations can be made to the disclosed embodiments without departing from the subject invention. For example other methods for anchor deployment will be apparent to the skilled artisan. Moreover the instruments and methods described herein may be utilized in other regions of the body e.g. knee hip etc. and for other tissue treatment procedures. Thus while the exemplary embodiments have been described in detail by way of example and for clarity of understanding a variety of changes adaptations and modifications will be obvious to those of skill in the art. Therefore the scope of the present invention is limited solely by the appended claims.

