---

title: Point to point media on demand
abstract: Reducing head end server demand for cable television/services systems with point-to-point Media on Demand content delivery is provided. Upon receiving a request for media content, a content table may be requested from one or more neighboring network-connected devices to search for the requested content. If the requested content is found, the content may be provided to the requesting device from the neighboring device. If the requested content is not found on a neighboring device, a hub server station may be queried for the requested media content. The media content may be provided by the head end server if the content is not available on a neighboring device or the hub server. Embodiments may reduce demand on the head end server and free the head end server capacity for other uses.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09591337&OS=09591337&RS=09591337
owner: Cox Communications, Inc.
number: 09591337
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120327
---
Many video content providers provide video on demand VOD services which allow customers to request certain video programming to be played on their video viewing devices via a network connected device e.g. a set top box at a time desired by the customer. For example a customer may select a desired movie documentary educational film and the like from a list of titles displayed on the customer s television set via a set top box. Typically requested video programming titles are streamed from a provider s head end or main server to a customer s network connected device e.g. set top box and video viewing device e.g. television set via a networked system such as a cable system hub that services a number of individual cable customers. That is in a cable television services system each requested video programming title may be streamed from a cable system head end to the requesting customer.

As can be appreciated streaming individual titles to individual customers from a head end server consumes significant processing capacity at the head end. Additionally transmission of a requested title from a head end server to a servicing hub server may also consume a significant amount of transmission capacity between the head end and the servicing hub. The system head end may be tasked with other services. For example the head end server may be tasked with traditional video television programming television services high speed internet access electronic mail services cable system management and maintenance services and the like. As a result use of the system head end server for VOD processing and transmission may be inefficient and burdensome on the head end server system.

Embodiments of the present invention provide a point to point VOD system for reducing head end server demand. According to one embodiment high demand media content including but not limited to video content music music downloads video games internet data streaming etc. may be stored at provider system hubs or servers servicing multiple individual customers. For example a customer may request a certain media content title and the content may be delivered from any number of hub servers containing the content to the customer rather than being delivered from the system s head end server to the customer. Embodiments may be utilized in various delivery platforms such as a cable television services platform internet streaming through a broadband network a digital subscriber line DSL network Wi Fi satellite etc.

According to another embodiment point to point searching may be provided. One or more tables of neighboring network connected devices according to location and other parameters may be received by an end point device and utilized for finding a nearest neighboring device with a requested VOD title. End point devices may include but are not limited to set top boxes desktop computers laptop computers tablet computers mobile phones smart phones network connected televisions gaming devices as well as other network connected devices. Embodiments may be utilized for determining a most efficient method of retrieving content due to such factors as location speed of download etc. and for retrieving the desired content. If the request cannot be fulfilled with point to point set top boxes or hub servers the head end server may be used to fulfill the request.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and description below. Other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that the following detailed description is explanatory only and is not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

As briefly described above embodiments of the present invention are directed to delivering media content utilizing point to point systems and methods regardless of the physical location of a consumer an endpoint device with which content may be received or a broadcasting method with which content may be delivered. When an individual user makes a request for media content to be delivered on demand a search may be initiated for content previously requested by a neighboring point to point device within a given area e.g. neighborhood community district city etc. . The media content may then be retrieved and used by the requesting device.

Consider for example a subscriber to an on demand media content service desires to watch a specific movie. Upon requesting to watch this movie for example by selecting the movie title from a VOD menu displayed on the user s television a search may be performed to determine if another nearby device has previously requested and received the movie content. If the requested movie is found upon receiving permission to retrieve the content the movie content may be retrieved and provided to the requesting subscriber. If the requested movie is not found on any peer devices a hub server may be searched for the content. If the content is not found at the hub server the content may be requested from the head end server.

These embodiments may be combined other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents. Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals refer to like elements throughout the several figures embodiments of the present invention and an exemplary operating environment will be described.

The network is illustrative of one or more media content delivery systems through which the various endpoint devices systems may operate. For example the wireless system may be utilized for wireless voice text and data transmissions. The wire line system may be utilized for wire line voice text and data transmissions. The Cable Television CATV system may be utilized for provision of television services and data services. The IP based system may be utilized for any of a variety of Internet protocol based services such as voice and data transmissions. Other systems are illustrative of any number of other systems that may be utilized for providing communications between various endpoint devices with other endpoint devices software applications and data repositories. In as much a single combined system may be provided by a given service provider for providing multiple types of the aforementioned communications services including media content. For example a single services provider may offer television wireless and wire line telephone and data products or services.

Referring still to a hub station server may serve as a remote computerized system for delivering media content according to the embodiments of this invention. The hub station server is illustrative of any suitable computing system e.g. server computer capable of sending receiving processing verifying and storing data according to embodiments of the present invention. The hub station server may be associated with any one or combination of the communications systems illustrated in the network for maintaining and processing subscriber information including but not limited to products or services subscribed to contract information subscriber contact information product services usage data as well as all necessary media delivery functionality.

According to embodiments the hub station server may be operable to receive a request for on demand media content and to provide requested on demand media content. The hub station server may not be limited to providing content from a single media content provider company but may provide media content from a plurality of media content providers via various methods of electronic delivery. As can be appreciated oftentimes a hub server station may be located farther away from a customer than other customers using the same hub. That is other customers and their network connected devices may be located closer to a customer requesting media content than the hub server station .

Referring still to the communication network architecture includes a head end server . The head end server system may include hardware and software systems and may be operable to managing and distribute media content. In addition to distributing media content on demand the head end may be tasked with other services such as traditional video television programming television services high speed internet access electronic mail services cable system management and maintenance services and the like. Embodiments may be utilized to offload on demand processing and transmission to hub servers and endpoint devices and free processing capacity at the head end .

Embodiments of the present invention may be applied to various on demand applications including but not limited to media programming guide applications e.g. television listings applications web browser applications gaming applications media streaming applications and the like.

Referring now to a process flow of a method for reducing head end server demand through a point to point media on demand system is illustrated. The method starts at OPERATION and proceeds to OPERATION where a request is received for media content. The media content may be one of various types of media including but not limited to video audio a game and the like. A user may make a request via one of various endpoint devices such as but not limited to a set top box personal computer smart phone tablet computer gaming device or other network connected device. For example a user may select a movie that he would like to watch by selecting the movie title from a menu. When a user selects a piece of media content to watch listen play etc. a request for the content is received.

Upon receiving a request for media content the method proceeds to OPERATION where a request is sent to one or more neighboring peer nodes for a content table wherein a peer node is an endpoint device that is attached to a network and is capable of sending receiving or forwarding information over a communications channel. According to embodiments a content table may include an index or database of media content previously downloaded by a device and its location. According to one embodiment the request may be sent to a nearest router which may direct the request to a nearest device. Neighboring devices may be devices located within a predetermined distance of the requesting device within in a community city zone or other geographical area.

At OPERATION the requested content table may be received as a response. According to an embodiment the received content table may be stored for future media content requests. At DECISION OPERATION a determination may be made to determine if the received content table comprises the requested media content. If the content table comprises the requested media content at OPERATION the media content may be retrieved from the associated device. Media content may be retrieved by various methods. For example the media content may be downloaded from one STB to a requesting STB streamed in real time or downloaded from any number of sources consistent with embodiments of this invention. At OPERATION the customer may be billed for the received on demand media content. Billing for consumption of media on demand may be done individually or as part of a bundled package of purchased services from a media content provider.

If a determination is made at DECISION OPERATION that the received content table does not comprise the requested media content the method may return to OPERATION and the request may be sent to the next nearest device. OPERATIONS may be repeated N number of times where N may be the number of time until the requested media content is found until a predetermined number of requests have been sent or after searches have been made within a predetermined radius without finding the requested media content.

If the requested media content is not found on any neighboring devices the method may proceed to OPERATION where the request may be sent to a hub server station . At OPERATION a response from the hub server station is received. At DECISION OPERATION a determination is made to determine if the requested media content is present at the hub server station . If the requested media content is present at the hub server station the method may proceed to OPERATION where the requested media content is retrieved. If it is not present then the method proceeds to OPERATION where the request is sent to the head end server . At OPERATION the requested content may be provided to the requesting device. The method ends at OPERATION .

Computing devices are implemented in different ways in different embodiments. For instance in the example of the computing device comprises a memory a processing system a network interface a secondary storage device an input device a video interface a display unit and a communication medium . In other embodiments the computing device is implemented using more or fewer hardware components e.g. a video interface a display unit or an input device .

The memory includes one or more computer readable storage media capable of storing data and or computer executable instructions. In various embodiments the memory is implemented in various ways. For example the memory can be implemented as various types of computer readable storage media. Example types of computer readable storage media include but are not limited to solid state memory flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory DDR SDRAM DDR2 SDRAM DDR3 SDRAM read only memory ROM reduced latency DRAM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM and other types of devices and or articles of manufacture that store data.

According to embodiments the term computer readable media includes communication media and computer readable storage media. Communication media include information delivery media. Computer executable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism may be embodied on a communications medium. The term modulated data signal describes a signal that has one or more characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. For example communication media can include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media.

The term computer readable storage medium may also refer to devices or articles of manufacture that store data and or computer executable instructions readable by a computing device. The term computer readable storage media encompasses volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in various methods or technologies for storage and retrieval of information. Such information can include data structures program modules computer executable instructions or other data.

The processing system includes one or more processing units which may include tangible integrated circuits that selectively execute computer executable instructions. In various embodiments the processing units in the processing system are implemented in various ways. For example the processing units in the processing system can be implemented as one or more processing cores. In this example the processing system can comprise one or more Intel Core microprocessors. In another example the processing system can comprise one or more separate microprocessors. In yet another example embodiment the processing system can comprise Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs that provide specific functionality. In yet another example the processing system provides specific functionality by using an ASIC and by executing computer executable instructions.

The computing device may be enabled to send data to and receive data from a communication network via a network interface card . In different embodiments the network interface card is implemented in different ways such as an Ethernet interface a token ring network interface a fiber optic network interface a wireless network interface e.g. WiFi WiMax etc. or another type of network interface.

The secondary storage device includes one or more computer readable storage media and may store data and computer executable instructions not directly accessible by the processing system . That is the processing system performs an I O operation to retrieve data and or computer executable instructions from the secondary storage device . In various embodiments the secondary storage device can be implemented as various types of computer readable storage media such as by one or more magnetic disks magnetic tape drives CD ROM discs DVD ROM discs BLU RAY discs solid state memory devices and or other types of computer readable storage media.

The input device enables the computing device to receive input from a user. Example types of input devices include but are not limited to keyboards mice trackballs stylus input devices key pads microphones joysticks touch sensitive display screens and other types of devices that provide user input to the computing device .

The video interface outputs video information to the display unit . In different embodiments the video interface is implemented in different ways. For example the video interface is a video expansion card. In another example the video interface is integrated into a motherboard of the computing device . In various embodiments the display unit can be a an LCD display panel a touch sensitive display panel an LED screen a projector a cathode ray tube display or another type of display unit. In various embodiments the video interface communicates with the display unit in various ways. For example the video interface can communicate with the display unit via a Universal Serial Bus USB connector a VGA connector a digital visual interface DVI connector an S Video connector a High Definition Multimedia Interface HDMI interface a DisplayPort connector or another type of connection.

The communications medium facilitates communication among the hardware components of the computing device . In different embodiments the communications medium facilitates communication among different components of the computing device . For instance in the example of the communications medium facilitates communication among the memory the processing system the network interface card the secondary storage device the input device and the video interface . In different embodiments the communications medium is implemented in different ways such as a PCI bus a PCI Express bus an accelerated graphics port AGP bus an Infiniband interconnect a serial Advanced Technology Attachment ATA interconnect a parallel ATA interconnect a Fiber Channel interconnect a USB bus a Small Computing system Interface SCSI interface or another type of communications medium.

The memory stores various types of data and or software instructions. For instance in the example of the memory stores a Basic Input Output System BIOS and an operating system . The BIOS includes a set of software instructions that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to boot up. The operating system includes a set of software instructions that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide an operating system that coordinates the activities and sharing of resources of the computing device . The memory also stores one or more application programs that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide applications to users. According to embodiments application programs may include a point to point media search application . While executing on processing system application programs such as the point to point media search application may perform processes including for example one or more method s stages as described above. The memory also stores one or more utility programs that when executed by the processing system cause the computing device to provide utilities to other software programs.

Embodiments of the present invention may be utilized in various distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network in a distributed computing environment.

According to embodiments of the present invention the CATV system is in the form of a distributed client server computing system for providing video and data flow across the HFC network between server side services providers e.g. cable television services providers via a server side backend head end and a client side customer via a client side set top box STB functionally connected to a customer receiving device such as the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art modern CATV systems may provide a variety of services across the HFC network including traditional digital and analog video programming telephone services high speed Internet access video on demand and information services.

On the client side of the CATV system digital and analog video programming and digital and analog data are provided to the customer television set via the set top box STB . Interactive television services that allow a customer to input data to the CATV system likewise are provided by the STB . As illustrated in the STB is a multipurpose computing device having a computer processor memory and an input output mechanism. The input output mechanism of a STB receives input from server side processes via the HFC network and from customers via input devices such as the remote control device and the keyboard . The remote control device and the keyboard may communicate with the STB via a suitable communication transport such as the infrared connection . The STB also includes a video processor for processing and providing digital and analog video signaling to the television set via a cable communication transport . A multi channel tuner is provided for processing video and data to and from the STB and the server side head end system described below.

The STB also includes an operating system for directing the functions of the STB in conjunction with a variety of client applications . For example if a client application requires a news flash from a third party news source to be displayed on the television the operating system may cause the graphics functionality and video processor of the STB for example to output the news flash to the television at the direction of the client application responsible for displaying news items.

Because a variety of different operating systems may be utilized by a variety of different brands and types of set top boxes a middleware layer is provided to allow a given software application to be executed by a variety of different operating systems. According to an embodiment of the present invention the middleware layer may include a set of application programming interfaces API that are exposed to client applications and operating systems that allow the client applications to communicate with the operating systems through common data calls understood via the API set. As described below a corresponding middleware layer is included on the server side of the CATV system for facilitating communication between the server side application server and the client side STB . According to one embodiment of the present invention search tables may be developed for neighboring STBs which may include previously downloaded media content location and the like and may be managed by the middleware layer of the client side STB and accessed by other STB s for searching and finding the desired on demand media. As should be appreciated numerous endpoint devices in addition to STBs may be utilized to send and or receive communications in various operating environments according to various types of transmissions including media content. For example wireless telephones smart phones tablet computers wire line phones personal computers laptop computers network connected televisions and the like. According to another embodiment of the present invention the middleware layer of the server side application server and the middleware layer of the client side STB format data passed between the client side and server side according to the Extensible Markup Language XML . As should be appreciated by those skilled in the art although some embodiments described in this specification are oriented to middleware installed and executed on a STB alternative embodiments implemented as firmware or as hardware are well within the scope of the present invention.

According to one embodiment the set top box passes digital and analog video and data signaling to the television via a one way communication transport . According to other embodiments two way communication transports may be utilized for example via high definition multimedia HDMI ports. The STB may receive video and data from the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network through a video data downlink and data via a data downlink. The STB may transmit data from the client side of the CATV system to the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network via one data uplink. The video data downlink is an in band downlink that allows for digital and analog video and data signaling from the server side of the CATV system through the HFC network to the set top box for use by the STB and for distribution to the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art the in band signaling space may operate across a variety of frequency ranges for example at a frequency between 54 and 1000 megahertz. The signaling space is generally divided into 6 megahertz channels in which may be transmitted a single analog signal or a greater number e.g. up to ten digital signals.

The data downlink and the data uplink illustrated in between the HFC network and the set top box comprise out of band data links. As is understand by those skilled in the art the out of band frequency range generally lies between zero and 54 megahertz. According to embodiments of the present invention data flow between the client side set top box and the server side application server is typically passed through the out of band data links. Alternatively an in band data carousel may be positioned in an in band channel into which a data feed may be processed from the server side application server through the HFC network to the client side STB . Operation of data transport between components of the CATV system described with reference to is well known to those skilled in the art.

Referring still to the head end of the CATV system is positioned on the server side of the CATV system and includes hardware and software systems responsible for originating and managing content for distributing through the HFC network to client side STBs for presentation to customers via televisions . As described above a number of services may be provided by the CATV system including digital and analog video programming interactive television services telephone services video on demand services targeted advertising and provision of information content.

The application server is a general purpose computing system operative to assemble and manage data sent to and received from the client side set top box via the HFC network . As described above with reference to the set top box the application server includes a middleware layer for processing and preparing data from the head end of the CATV system for receipt and use by the client side set top box . For example the application server via the middleware layer may obtain data from third party services via the Internet for transmitting to a customer through the HFC network and the set top box . For example a weather report from a third party weather service may be downloaded by the application server via the Internet . When the application server receives the downloaded weather report the middleware layer may be utilized to format the weather report for receipt and use by the set top box . According to one embodiment of the present invention data obtained and managed by the middleware layer of the application server is formatted according to the Extensible Markup Language and is passed to the set top box through the HFC network where the XML formatted data may be utilized by a client application in concert with the middleware layer as described above. As should be appreciated by those skilled in the art a variety of third party services data including news data weather data sports data and other information content may be obtained by the application server via distributed computing environments such as the Internet for provision to customers via the HFC network and the set top box . According to an embodiment of the present invention digital video recording functionality may be located remotely on the head end server side hub server or neighboring STB and called upon by a client set top box .

As illustrated in the services provider data services include a number of services operated by the services provider of the CATV system which may include data on a given customer. For example a billing system may include information such as a customer s name street address business identification number Social Security number credit history and information regarding services and products subscribed to by the customer. An electronic mail system may contain information such as electronic mail addresses high speed Internet access subscription information and electronic mail usage data. An authentication system may include information such as secure user names and passwords utilized by customers for access to network services.

A customer information database may include general information about customers such as place of employment business address business telephone number and demographic information such as age gender educational level and the like. The customer information database may also include information on pending work orders for services or products ordered by the customer. The customer information database may also include general customer information such as answers to frequently asked customer questions and contact information for various service provider offices departments. As should be understood this information may be stored in a variety of disparate databases operated by the cable services provider.

As should be understood by those skilled in the art the disparate data services systems are illustrated as a collection of data services for purposes of example only. The example data services systems comprising the data services may operate as separate data services systems which communicate with a web services system described below along a number of different communication paths and according to a number of different communication protocols

Referring still to a web services system is illustrated between the application server and the data services . The web services system formulates a data query to each of the available data services systems for obtaining any available data for a given customer as identified by a set top box identification associated with the customer. The web services system serves as an abstraction layer between the various data services systems and the application server . That is the application server is not required to communicate with the disparate data services systems nor is the application server required to understand the data structures or data types utilized by the disparate data services systems. The web services system is operative to communicate with each of the disparate data services systems for obtaining necessary customer profile data. The customer data obtained by the web services system is assembled and is returned to the application server for ultimate processing via the middleware layer as described above.

Embodiments of the present invention for example are described above with reference to block diagrams and or operational illustrations of methods systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. The functions acts noted in the blocks may occur out of the order as shown in any flowchart. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality acts involved.

Further the disclosed methods stages may be modified in any manner including by reordering stages and or inserting or deleting stages without departing from the invention. Although embodiments of the present invention have been described with reference to particular standards and protocols the present invention is not limited to such standards and protocols.

While the specification includes examples the invention s scope is indicated by the following claims. Furthermore while the specification has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts the claims are not limited to the features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example for embodiments of the invention.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications or variations may be made in the present invention without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein.

