---

title: Automatic adjustment of a camera view for a three-dimensional navigation system
abstract: Methods and systems for automatically adjusting a three-dimensional navigation system are provided. A method for automatically adjusting a display viewpoint for a three-dimensional navigation system may include receiving a velocity of a vehicle and a look-ahead distance between the vehicle and a look-ahead point, determining a range distance between the vehicle and the display viewpoint, determining the first position of the display viewpoint, displaying a three-dimensional view of a navigation route for the vehicle from the first position, receiving a change in the look-ahead distance, determining a new range distance, determining a second position of the display viewpoint, and automatically moving the position of the display viewpoint to the second position on a curvilinear swoop path located above and behind the vehicle. A corresponding system may include a navigation information collector, a range determiner and a display viewpoint adjuster.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08626434&OS=08626434&RS=08626434
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08626434
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120301
---
Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to vehicle navigation and route planning systems and more particularly to vehicle navigation systems capable of displaying three dimensional maps and imagery.

Electronic vehicle navigation systems and portable navigation devices PND provide route calculations turn by turn instructions voice prompts and imagery to help guide and direct a driver to a destination. Such systems typically utilize a global positioning system GPS to determine a vehicle s location in relation to a digital map displayed to a driver. These systems also typically include a processor other computer hardware and software designed to accept user input calculate navigation routes and convey real time navigation information to a driver.

In 2010 the global vehicle navigation system and PND market was estimated at nearly 40 million devices. Increasing popularity of GPS enabled smartphones and numerous free and low cost navigation applications should lead to continued growth in the overall number of devices used for vehicle navigation.

Existing vehicle navigation systems allow a driver to manually set a zoom level for displayed map imagery. However the zoom level set at one point in time remains constant even when driving conditions change. In addition many commercial navigation systems include as many as ten or more zoom levels which require manual scrolling on a slider or tapping to carry out adjustment. Thus a driver must either manually adjust the zoom level while driving or accept an unadjusted and potentially confusing navigation display. Both scenarios can lead to driving mistakes driver frustration and increased safety risks.

Methods and systems for automatically adjusting a camera view for a three dimensional navigation system are provided.

In an embodiment a method for automatically adjusting a display viewpoint of a three dimensional navigation system includes receiving a velocity of a vehicle and a look ahead distance between the vehicle and a look ahead point. A range distance between the vehicle and the display viewpoint is determined based on the received velocity and look ahead distance. A first display viewpoint position is determined based on the range distance. A three dimensional view of a navigation route is then displayed from the first display viewpoint position. Next a change is received in the look ahead distance. A new range distance is determined based on the velocity and the change in look ahead distance. A second display viewpoint position is then determined based on the new range distance. Finally the tilt of the display viewpoint is automatically adjusted and the position of the display viewpoint is automatically moved to the second position located on a curvilinear swoop path above and behind the vehicle.

In an additional embodiment a system for automatically adjusting a display viewpoint of a three dimensional navigation system for a vehicle includes a navigation information collector configured to receive a velocity of the vehicle and a look ahead distance between the vehicle and a look ahead point. The system also includes a range determiner configured to determine a range distance between the vehicle and the display viewpoint based on the velocity and the look ahead distance. The system further includes a display viewpoint adjuster configured to determine a first position of the display viewpoint based on the range distance to display a three dimensional view of a navigation route for the vehicle from the first position to receive a change in the look ahead distance to determine a new range distance based on the velocity and the change in the look ahead distance to determine a second position of the display viewpoint based on the updated range distance and to automatically adjust a tilt of the display viewpoint and move the position of the display viewpoint to the second position located along a curvilinear swoop path above and behind the vehicle.

In another embodiment a computer readable storage device having control logic recorded thereon is executed by a processor which causes the processor to automatically adjust a display viewpoint of a three dimensional navigation system for a vehicle. The control logic includes a first computer readable program code to cause the processor to receive a velocity of the vehicle and a look ahead distance between the vehicle and a look ahead point. The control logic also includes a second computer readable program code to cause the processor to determine a range distance between the vehicle and the display viewpoint based on the velocity and the look ahead distance. Further the control logic includes a third computer readable program code to cause the processor to determine the first position of the display viewpoint based on the range distance to display a three dimensional view of a navigation route for the vehicle from the first position to receive a change in the look ahead distance to determine a new range distance based on the velocity and the change in the look ahead distance to determine a second position of the display viewpoint based on the updated range distance and to automatically adjust the display viewpoint tilt and move the position of the display viewpoint to the second position located along a curvilinear swoop path above and behind the vehicle.

Further embodiments features and advantages of the invention as well as the structure and operation of the various embodiments of the invention are described in detail below with reference to accompanying drawings.

Embodiments are described herein with reference to the illustrative embodiments for particular applications it should be understood that the invention is not limited to the described embodiments. Those skilled in the art with access to the teachings provided herein will recognize additional modifications applications and embodiments within the scope thereof and additional fields in which the invention would be of significant utility.

In the detailed description of embodiments that follows references to one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to effect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

Vehicle navigation systems provide audio and visual route navigation instructions with corresponding map imagery to guide a driver to a destination. Such systems also may be used to find alternative routes and to locate points of interest. However existing vehicle navigation systems do not provide continuous automated adjustment of a vehicle navigation display according to real time driving conditions. As a result a driver must either manually adjust zoom and display settings or accept a stale display view until an update occurs.

Embodiments described herein relate to automatic adjustment of a camera view for a three dimensional navigation system. Such embodiments provide the perspective of a personalized virtual flying camera positioned at various points along a curvilinear swoop path located above and behind a vehicle or a representation of the vehicle. The position and tilt of the virtual camera viewpoint are automatically adjusted based on changes in driving conditions without any manual intervention. Thus a driver is automatically presented with navigation imagery tailored to constantly changing driving conditions thereby reducing distraction and improving the driving experience.

Additional embodiments may also extend and apply to any moving object with variable speed. Such objects may include but are not limited to boats ships trains buses motorcycles taxis and driverless vehicles. These and other types of moving objects with variable speed are generally referred to herein as a vehicle. In addition embodiments are not limited to vehicle navigation and may be applied towards visualization relating to any moving object including the use of informational displays.

System or any combination of its components may be part of or may be implemented with a computing device. Examples of computing devices include but are not limited to a computer workstation distributed computing system computer cluster embedded system stand alone electronic device networked device mobile device e.g. mobile phone smart phone navigation device tablet or mobile computing device rack server set top box or other type of computer system having at least one processor and memory. Such a computing device may include software firmware hardware or a combination thereof. Software may include one or more applications and an operating system. Hardware may include but is not limited to a processor memory and user interface display.

The computing device can be configured to access content hosted on web servers over a network. The network can be any network or combination of networks that can carry data communications. Such a network can include but is not limited to a wired e.g. Ethernet or a wireless e.g. Wi Fi and 4 G network. In addition the network can include but is not limited to a local area network medium area network and or wide area network such as the Internet. The network can support protocols and technology including but not limited to Internet or World Wide Web protocols and or services. Intermediate network routers gateways or servers may be provided between servers and clients depending upon a particular application or environment.

System may include a navigation system in communication with a display viewpoint adjustment system either directly or using an application programming interface API . Navigation system may access default navigation settings and driver preferences which may be available locally or network accessible. In addition display viewpoint adjustment system may include a navigation information collector a range determiner and a display viewpoint adjuster .

In one embodiment system can be a computing device integrated into a vehicle such as an on board navigation system installed directly into the dashboard of the vehicle during the manufacturing process. According to another embodiment system can also be a computing device that is separate from the vehicle but travels along with the vehicle. For example system can be implemented using a computing device such as a GPS enabled smartphone or a portable navigation device. An additional embodiment of system may include a remote computing device configured to receive information about the movement of the vehicle from a GPS tracking device.

According to an embodiment vehicle travels down a roadway at varying speeds along a navigation route displayed by navigation system . Vehicle has a velocity at any given moment in time with changes in velocity occurring as vehicle accelerates and decelerates.

In an embodiment navigation information collector receives the velocity of vehicle and look ahead distance . Range determiner then determines a range distance which is the distance between vehicle and the virtual camera display viewpoint position based on the received velocity and look ahead distance . Display viewpoint adjuster then determines a first display viewpoint position along a curvilinear swoop path and also a display viewpoint tilt based on the determined range distance . Virtual camera is then automatically moved to the determined first position tilt is automatically adjusted and a three dimensional navigation view from the first position is displayed by navigation system .

Navigation information collector then receives an updated velocity as vehicle accelerates or decelerates. Navigation information collector may also receive an updated look ahead distance in addition to a change in speed. Range determiner determines a new range distance based on the updated velocity and the updated look ahead distance. Display viewpoint adjuster determines a second position of the display viewpoint based on the updated range distance. Display viewpoint adjuster then automatically moves the display viewpoint to a second position along curvilinear swoop path located above and behind the vehicle and automatically adjusts the tilt of the display viewpoint. As the velocity of vehicle and look ahead distance continue to change this process will be repeated to automatically determine and adjust the display viewpoint position and tilt based on changes in speed and driving conditions.

According to a number of embodiments range distance may be calculated as a function having one or more input variables including one or more of a velocity of vehicle a number of seconds a driver wishes to look ahead a distance a driver wishes to look ahead a position where the vehicle is to appear on a three dimensional navigation display a position where the look ahead point is to appear on a three dimensional navigation display an equation of a curvilinear swoop path and one or more driver preferences relating to camera orientation and tilt. Such embodiments may calculate range distance as a mathematical equation which may incorporate one or more additional variables. Further range distance may be updated or recalculated periodically based on an external prompt or event and based on changes to one or more input variables.

Other embodiments may determine range distance based on incremental refinement of the display viewpoint along a curvilinear swoop path. For example the display viewpoint may be adjusted incrementally on a curvilinear swoop path based on knowing the equation of curvilinear swoop path a position where vehicle is to be displayed on a three dimensional navigation display and a position where look ahead point is to be displayed on a three dimensional navigation display. User preferences relating to navigation display also may be used to influence an incremental refinement system.

For example according to additional embodiments the position of the display viewpoint can be incrementally adjusted higher on curvilinear swoop path as a vehicle accelerates and look ahead distance increases. Alternatively the position of the display viewpoint can be adjusted lower on curvilinear swoop path as a vehicle decelerates and look ahead distance decreases. Additional embodiments may include use of systems and methods presented in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 423 434 entitled SWOOP NAVIGATION US 2009 0259976 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

At step a range distance between vehicle and the display viewpoint is determined based on the received velocity and look ahead distance . Step may be performed by range determiner .

At step a first position of the display viewpoint is determined based on the range distance . Step may be performed by display viewpoint adjuster .

At step a three dimensional view of a navigation route for the vehicle is displayed to the driver from the determined first position. Step may be performed by display viewpoint adjuster .

At step a change in the velocity of vehicle and the look ahead distance is received. Step may be performed by navigation information collector .

At step a new range distance is determined based on the velocity and change in look ahead distance. Step may be performed by range determiner .

At step a second position of the display viewpoint is determined based on the new range distance. Step may be performed by display viewpoint adjuster .

At step the position of the display viewpoint is automatically adjusted to the second position along a curvilinear swoop path located above and behind the vehicle and the tilt of the display viewpoint is also automatically adjusted. Step may be performed by display viewpoint adjuster .

The size and curvature of curvilinear swoop path are determined dynamically based on vehicle velocity. In addition the display viewpoint position and tilt of the display viewpoint are adjusted based on changes in velocity. In an embodiment the characteristics of curvilinear swoop path and the display viewpoint remain unchanged at a constant velocity.

Display viewpoint illustrates a display viewpoint position for a vehicle traveling at a high velocity according to an embodiment. Display viewpoint illustrates a display viewpoint position for a vehicle moving at a low speed according to another embodiment.

Generally as vehicle velocity increases the display viewpoint position moves higher along curvilinear swoop path increasing both the range distance and the visible area within range of the display viewpoint. As velocity decreases the display viewpoint position moves closer to the to the vehicle providing a more focused view of the navigation route and its surroundings.

The tilt of the display viewpoint is also adjusted based on velocity. For example as vehicle accelerates the curvature of curvilinear swoop path increases and the display viewpoint position moves away from vehicle as the display viewpoint position moves higher along the curve. As a result the display viewpoint tilt must be adjusted downward based on one or more of display viewpoint position velocity look ahead point range distance default navigation settings and driver preferences. On the other hand as vehicle slows down virtual display viewpoint approaches the ground and the tilt must be adjusted horizontally to maintain focus on the look ahead point in front of the vehicle which can also be fine tuned using the same parameters.

Display viewpoint settings may be based on pre configured system settings such as default navigation system settings. Display viewpoint settings may also be parameterized based on user preference. For example user preferences may include look ahead distance look ahead time range distance tilt angle and other settings when traveling at a particular speed.

In addition the position and tilt of the display viewpoint may be further influenced and adjusted based on changes in attributes related to a driver a vehicle a navigation route weather and visibility. Driver related attributes may include a driving habit of a driver driving performance of a driver driver familiarity with route vital signs vision and age. Vehicle attributes may include vehicle size weight and performance capabilities. Navigation route factors may include terrain route complexity route characteristics traffic pattern changes actual or anticipated traffic volume events occurring along the navigation route approaching objects obstructions to the display view trip duration and proximity to a final destination point. Weather conditions visibility time of day and available daylight also may be used as influencing factors when determining the display viewpoint position and tilt.

Existing navigation systems typically center a vehicle on a navigation system display. However in an embodiment the spacing between the near distance and the far distance remains constant on the navigation system display. This is accomplished by further adjusting a determined display viewpoint position and tilt to accommodate navigation system or user preferred near distance and far distance positions on the navigation screen.

Vehicle is seen from a temporary alternative viewpoint located near the side of the vehicle representation to prevent tall building from blocking the navigation display view during a turn. Alternatively a temporary alternative viewpoint may be positioned for example in front of and facing a representation of vehicle around the corner from building . Once the obstruction has been passed the display viewpoint is readjusted and returned to a position located along a traditional curvilinear swoop path above and behind the vehicle. A temporary display viewpoint also may be used in response to other conditions such as sudden movement of a vehicle reverse direction of a vehicle an approaching object an anticipated driving maneuver a traffic pattern and also may be further customized based on user preference.

Temporary display viewpoint user preferences may include one or more of a general or specific display viewpoint position or orientation an amount of space surrounding a vehicle and a degree of tilt for specific conditions. For example temporary alternative viewpoint preferences may be defined for one or more driving scenarios such as driving environment driving maneuver speed and navigation viewpoint obstacle type.

In an embodiment of the present invention the system and components of embodiments described herein are implemented using well known computers such as example computer system shown in . For example navigation system and display viewpoint adjustment system or any of its respective modules may be implemented using computer system .

Computer system can be any commercially available and well known computer capable of performing the functions described herein. Such computer systems may include embedded computer systems mobile computers on board computer systems and vehicle mounted computer systems.

Computer system includes one or more processors also called central processing units or CPUs such as a processor . Processor is connected to a communication infrastructure . Such processors may include ARM or SuperH based processors.

Computer system also includes a main or primary memory such as random access memory RAM . Main memory has stored control logic computer software and data.

Computer system also includes one or more secondary storage devices . Secondary storage device includes for example a hard disk drive and or a removable storage device or drive as well as other types of storage devices such as memory cards memory sticks and flash based drives. Removable storage drive represents a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive a compact disk drive an optical storage device tape backup etc.

Removable storage drive interacts with a removable storage unit . Removable storage unit includes a computer useable or readable storage device having stored thereon computer software control logic and or data. Removable storage unit represents a floppy disk magnetic tape compact disk DVD optical storage disk memory card or any other computer data storage device. Removable storage drive reads from and or writes to removable storage unit in a well known manner.

Computer system also includes input output display devices such as monitors keyboards pointing devices etc. which communicate with communication infrastructure through a display interface .

Computer system further includes a communication or network interface . Communications interface enables computer system to communicate with remote devices. For example communications interface allows computer system to communicate over communications path representing a form of a computer useable or readable medium such as LANs WANs the Internet etc. Communications interface may interface with remote sites or networks via wired or wireless connections.

Control logic may be transmitted to and from computer system via communication path . More particularly computer system may receive and transmit carrier waves electromagnetic signals modulated with control logic via communication path .

Any apparatus or article of manufacture comprising a computer useable or readable medium having control logic software stored thereon is referred to herein as a computer program product or program storage device. This includes but is not limited to computer system main memory secondary storage device and removable storage unit . Such computer program products having control logic stored thereon that when executed by one or more data processing devices causes such data processing devices to operate as described herein represent embodiments of the invention.

Embodiments of the invention can work with software hardware and or operating system implementations other than those described herein. Any software hardware and operating system implementations suitable for performing the functions described herein can be used. Embodiments of the invention are applicable to both a client and to a server or a combination of both.

Embodiments of the present invention have been described above with the aid of functional building blocks illustrating the implementation of specified functions and relationships thereof. The boundaries of these functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined herein for the convenience of the description. Alternate boundaries can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships thereof are appropriately performed. The breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments.

In addition the foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the invention that others can by applying knowledge within the skill of the art readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without undue experimentation without departing from the general concept of the present invention. Therefore such adaptations and modifications are intended to be within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments based on the teaching and guidance presented herein. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation such that the terminology or phraseology of the present specification is to be interpreted by the skilled artisan in light of the teachings and guidance.

It is to be appreciated that the Detailed Description section and not the Summary and Abstract sections is intended to be used to interpret the claims. The Summary and Abstract sections may set forth one or more but not all exemplary embodiments of the present invention as contemplated by the inventors and thus are not intended to limit the present invention and the appended claims in any way.

The breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

