---

title: Provisioning network devices to provide a network service
abstract: A device is configured to receive information that identifies a type of network service to be provided to a customer, determine, based on the type of network service, network devices to provide the network service, where the network devices may include a first network device and a second network device. The device is configured to generate, for each of the network devices, corresponding configuration code for configuring the network devices to provide the network service, where first configuration code corresponding to the first network device may be different from second configuration code corresponding to the second network device. The device is configured to transmit, to each network device, the corresponding configuration code to configure the network devices to provide the network service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09042269&OS=09042269&RS=09042269
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 09042269
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121219
---
A network service provider may provide custom services for customers such as a custom built private network with particular capabilities specified by the customer. The network service provider may provision and configure network devices such as servers routers gateways etc. to provide the custom service.

The following detailed description of example implementations refers to the accompanying drawings. The same reference numbers in different drawings may identify the same or similar elements.

A network service provider may provide custom services for customers such as a custom built private network with particular capabilities specified by the customer. The network service provider may provision and configure network devices to provide the custom service such as servers routers gateways etc. Manual configuration of network devices may be expensive inconsistent and slow. Implementations described herein may provide automatic configuration of network devices to provide custom services to a customer.

As shown in the provisioning device may receive information associated with a network service to be provided to a customer. For example the network service may include a private network to be set up by a network service provider for a customer. The received information may identify customer devices that may utilize the network service requirements of the network service e.g. bandwidth jitter packet delay or other requirements etc. Based on the received information the provisioning device may identify network devices to provide the network service and may generate configuration code to provision the network devices to provide the network service. As further shown the provisioning device may transmit the configuration code to the network devices and the configuration code may configure the network devices to provide the network service.

User device may include a device capable of communicating with provisioning device . For example user device may include a computing device e.g. a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a handheld computer a smart phone a radiotelephone etc. or a similar device. In some implementations user device may receive input from a user such as information associated with a network service requested by the user and may provide the input to provisioning device .

Provisioning device may include one or more server devices or similar devices. In some implementations provisioning device may receive information associated with a network service requested by the user e.g. network service information may generate configuration code based on the network service information and may transmit the configuration code e.g. to network devices that are to provide the network service . Additionally or alternatively provisioning device may receive and or retrieve additional information associated with the network service e.g. from user device from a data structure from network devices from another device etc. and may generate the configuration code based on the additional information.

Network device may include one or more devices capable of providing network services. For example network device may include a traffic transfer device e.g. a router a switch e.g. an Ethernet switch a firewall a hub a gateway a bridge a modem a network interface card a base station an optical add drop multiplexer a reconfigurable optical add drop multiplexer an optical transmitter an optical receiver an optical transceiver etc. a server e.g. a virtual server a proxy server etc. and or another device capable of transmitting receiving transferring and or processing network traffic.

Additionally or alternatively network device may include one or more devices that are part of a packet switched network a circuit switched network a third generation 3G network an internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS core and or a long term evolution LTE network such as a serving gateway SGW a packet data network PDN gateway PGW a mobility management entity MME device a home subscriber server HSS a home agent HA a foreign agent FA a packet data serving node PDSN etc. Additionally or alternatively network device may include one or more devices of a multiprotocol label switching network. In some implementations network device may receive configuration code from provisioning device and may configure network device using the configuration code.

Operator device may include a device capable of communicating with provisioning device . For example operator device may include a computing device e.g. a desktop computer a laptop computer a tablet computer a handheld computer a smart phone a radiotelephone a server etc. or a similar device. In some implementations operator device may receive information from provisioning device and a user of operator device may input information that indicates approval or modification of the information. Operator device may transmit the information to provisioning device . Additionally or alternatively operator device may receive information associated with network devices that have been configured and or provisioned such as monitoring information. Operator device may display the monitoring information on a display.

Network may include one or more wired and or wireless networks. For example network may include a cellular network a public land mobile network PLMN a second generation 2G network a third generation 3G network a fourth generation 4G network a fifth generation 5G network a long term evolution LTE network and or another network. Additionally or alternatively network may include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a telephone network e.g. the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN an ad hoc network an intranet the Internet a fiber optic based network and or a combination of these or other types of networks.

The number of devices shown in is provided for explanatory purposes. In practice environment may include additional devices fewer devices different devices or differently arranged devices. Furthermore two or more devices shown in may be implemented within a single device or a single device shown in may be implemented as multiple distributed devices. Additionally one or more of the devices of environment may perform one or more functions described as being performed by another one or more devices of environment . Devices of environment may interconnect via wired connections wireless connections or a combination of wired and wireless connections.

Bus may include a path that permits communication among the components of device . Processor may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit a graphics processing unit an accelerated processing unit a microprocessor and or any processing logic e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA an application specific integrated circuit ASIC etc. that interprets and or executes instructions. Memory may include a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM and or another type of dynamic or static storage device e.g. a flash magnetic or optical memory that stores information and or instructions for use by processor .

Input component may include a component that permits a user to input information to device e.g. a touch screen display a keyboard a keypad a mouse a button a switch etc. . Output component may include a component that outputs information from device e.g. a display a speaker one or more light emitting diodes LEDs etc. .

Communication interface may include a transceiver like component such as a transceiver and or a separate receiver and transmitter that enables device to communicate with other devices such as via a wired connection a wireless connection or a combination of wired and wireless connections. For example communication interface may include an Ethernet interface an optical interface a coaxial interface an infrared interface a radio frequency RF interface a universal serial bus USB interface or the like.

Device may perform various operations described herein. Device may perform these operations in response to processor executing software instructions included in a computer readable medium such as memory . A computer readable medium may be defined as a non transitory memory device. A memory device may include memory space within a single storage device or memory space spread across multiple storage devices.

Software instructions may be read into memory from another computer readable medium or from another device via communication interface . When executed software instructions stored in memory may cause processor to perform one or more processes described herein. Additionally or alternatively hardwired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to perform one or more processes described herein. Thus implementations described herein are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The number of components shown in is provided for explanatory purposes. In practice device may include additional components fewer components different components or differently arranged components than those shown in . Additionally or alternatively each of user device provisioning device network device and or operator device may include one or more devices and or one or more components of device .

As shown in process may include receiving information associated with a network service to be provided to a customer block . For example provisioning device may receive e.g. from a user and or from another device such as user device information associated with the network service such as network service information that identifies a type of network service e.g. a voice communication service a video service a machine to machine communication service etc. a network device and or a type of network device to provide the network service requirements of the network service e.g. bandwidth requirements jitter requirements packet delay requirements security requirements a quantity of users and or user devices to be served by the network service mobility of the user devices traffic capacity requirements etc. an amount of money that the customer is willing to spend on the network service a time period that the customer wants the network service a geographic location associated with the network service e.g. a particular region to be served by the network service such as a residence a business a city a state a country etc. etc.

In some implementations the network service information may be determined from a customer contract. For example a user may input customer contract information via user device . Provisioning device may receive the customer contract information and may determine the network service information based on the customer contract information.

As further shown in process may include determining network devices to provide the network service block . For example provisioning device may use the network service information to determine one or more network devices to provide the network service. In some implementations provisioning device may receive information associated with network devices such as information that identifies types of network devices available in a service provider network e.g. routers gateways servers hubs etc. a quantity of network devices e.g. of each type available in the service provider network a capability of network devices e.g. bandwidth capabilities jitter capabilities packet delay capabilities security capabilities a quantity of users and or user devices capable of being served by the network devices traffic capacity capabilities etc. a geographic location of network devices availability of network devices e.g. availability for provisioning etc. Provisioning device may receive the information associated with network devices from network devices and or from another device e.g. a device that includes a data structure that stores information associated with network devices .

Provisioning device may use the network service information and the information associated with network devices to identify network devices to provide the network service. For example provisioning device may select one or more network devices to provide the network service based on the type of network devices capable of providing the network service e.g. based on a location of network devices and a location where the network service is to be provided based on a capability of network devices and a capability required by the network service etc. .

In some implementations a service provider may define one or more network service templates that identify network devices that may provide the network service. Provisioning device may retrieve a network service template based on the received network service information. Additionally or alternatively provisioning device may modify the network service template based on the received network service information. For example the network service template may identify types of network devices required to provide the network service and provisioning device may determine the required quantity of each type of network device the geographic locations of network devices etc. A network service template may include one or more variables that may be required to be defined to determine network devices to provide the network service.

In some implementations provisioning device may determine multiple combinations of network devices that may provide the network service. Provisioning device may select a particular combination of network devices based on the received network service information. Additionally or alternatively provisioning device may provide information regarding the multiple combinations of network devices to user device and or operator device and may receive an indication from a user of user device and or operator device of a particular combination of network devices to provide the network service. In some implementations different combinations of network devices may be associated with different prices and or costs.

As shown in process may include generating configuration code to configure the network devices to provide the network service block . For example provisioning device may determine the network devices required to provide the network service and may generate configuration code that configures those network devices to provide the network service. The configuration code may include for example programming code. Provisioning device may generate the configuration code based on the type of network device to be configured. For example different network devices may operate using different programming codes. Provisioning device may determine the programming code language used to program a particular network device e.g. by receiving information from the particular network device and or another device by retrieving the information from a data structure accessible by provisioning device etc. and may generate the configuration code for the particular network device using the determined programming code language. In some implementations the configuration code may include an application programming interface that provides access e.g. via provisioning device and or user device to change the configuration of network devices .

As further shown in process may include transmitting the configuration code to the network devices block . For example provisioning device may transmit to a network device required to provide the network service the configuration code that corresponds to that network device . Provisioning device may transmit the configuration code for example via simple network management protocol SNMP telnet secure shell SSH extensible markup language XML command line interface CLI and or another protocol. The transmitted configuration code may configure network devices to provide the network service and may provision e.g. make available for use network devices for the network service. In some implementations the configuration code may ensure that traffic transmitted as part of the network service is isolated from other traffic. For example the configuration code may create a virtual private network VPN for the customer.

In some implementations provisioning device may provide the configuration code to operator device and may receive user approval e.g. from operator device and or user modifications to the configuration code. Provisioning device may provide the approved and or modified configuration code to network devices . In some implementations provisioning device may transmit the configuration code to operator device and or network devices at a particular time based on a time identified by the received network service information e.g. a time period that the customer desires to have the network service available .

Additionally or alternatively once network devices have been provisioned e.g. via the configuration code provisioning device may monitor network devices and may provide monitoring information to user device and or operator device and or may store the monitoring information e.g. in a report log . For example provisioning device may determine that network devices have exceeded a traffic capacity threshold e.g. based on a customer contract and or the received network service information . Provisioning device may transmit a notification e.g. to user device operator device and or another device based on the traffic capacity threshold being exceeded and or may store the notification e.g. in a report log .

While a series of blocks has been described with regard to the blocks and or the order of the blocks may be modified in some implementations. Additionally or alternatively non dependent blocks may be performed in parallel.

As shown in a customer may input e.g. using user device information associated with a network service to be provided to the customer. For example the customer may input a type of network service to be provided a type of customer device to be served by the network service a quantity of customer devices to be served by the network service a geographic location of the customer device s an estimated amount of traffic a required bandwidth and or other information associated with the requested network service. For example as shown the customer may input monitoring fixed location devices as the type of network service to be provided vending machines as the customer devices to be supported by the network service 40 000 as the quantity of vending machines to be supported and United States nationwide as the geographic location of the vending machines. The input information may be received by user device which may transmit the information to provisioning device e.g. based on user input such as clicking a submit button .

As shown in provisioning device may use the received network service information to retrieve a network service template associated with the network service to determine network devices required to provide the requested network service. For example provisioning device may retrieve a network service template associated with monitoring fixed location devices. The network service template may identify types of network devices required to provide the network service. For example the network service template may indicate that one or more base stations virtual servers routers and gateways are required to provide the network service type of monitoring fixed location devices.

As shown in provisioning device may modify the network service template based on the received network service information. For example provisioning device may receive network service information that identifies geographic locations of the vending machines required bandwidth to transfer traffic to from the vending machines the quantity of vending machines etc. Provisioning device may modify the network service template to identify the particular network devices required to provide the network service. For example provisioning device may determine that the network service requires base stations that cover all of the vending machine locations one hundred virtual servers located in data centers in Denver Los Angeles Atlanta and New York gateways to transfer traffic to from all of the base stations and routers to interconnect all of the gateways and virtual servers. Provisioning device may determine the particular base stations virtual servers gateways and routers that satisfy these requirements.

As another example provisioning device may receive information identifying the network service as a regional service to be provided for example only in the state of Washington. In this example provisioning device may provision network devices located in the state of Washington.

Additionally or alternatively provisioning device may determine a quantity of network devices required to transfer traffic from customer devices e.g. vending machines parking meters mobile devices or any other communication device to a customer s home network. Provisioning device may determine the network devices and or the quantity of network devices based on received network service information which may identify a bandwidth or capacity requirement and or capability an estimated amount of traffic to be generated and or received by the customer devices a distance between the customer devices a quantity of customer devices to be served by the network service whether the customer devices are fixed or mobile etc.

As shown in provisioning device may generate configuration code that configures network devices to communicate with gather information from compile information from and or analyze information from the customer vending machines. Provisioning device may transmit the configuration code to network devices which may provision and or configure network devices to communicate with the customer vending machines.

As shown by reference number call flow may include transmitting by user device and to provisioning device a request for a network service to be provided to a customer. As shown by reference number call flow may include determining by provisioning device network devices to provide the requested network service. In some implementations provisioning device may receive information from network devices operator device and or another device in order to determine network devices to provide the requested network service.

As shown by reference number call flow may include generating by provisioning device configuration code to configure network devices to provide the requested network service. As shown by reference number call flow may include transmitting by provisioning device and to operator device the generated configuration code. As shown by reference number call flow may include transmitting by operator device and to provisioning device an indication of approval of the configuration code and or a modification to the configuration code. For example a user of operator device may provide input to operator device to modify and or approve the configuration code.

As shown by reference number call flow may include transmitting by provisioning device and to network devices the approved and or modified configuration code. As shown by reference number call flow may include configuring using the approved and or modified configuration code network devices . As shown by reference number call flow may include transmitting by network devices and to provisioning device monitoring information such as utilized capacity of network devices diagnostic information associated with network devices operating status of network devices etc. In some implementations network devices may transmit the monitoring information to user device and or operator device . Additionally or alternatively provisioning device may receive the monitoring information from network devices and may transmit the monitoring information to user device and or operator device .

Implementations described herein may provide automatic configuration of network devices to provide network services requested by a customer.

The foregoing disclosure provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the implementations to the precise form disclosed. Modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure or may be acquired from practice of the implementations.

As used herein the term component is intended to be broadly construed as hardware firmware or a combination of hardware and software.

It will be apparent that systems and or methods as described herein may be implemented in many different forms of software firmware and hardware in the implementations illustrated in the figures. The actual software code or specialized control hardware used to implement these systems and or methods is not limiting of the implementations. Thus the operation and behavior of the systems and or methods were described without reference to the specific software code it being understood that software and control hardware can be designed to implement the systems and or methods based on the description herein.

Even though particular combinations of features are recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification these combinations are not intended to limit the disclosure of possible implementations. In fact many of these features may be combined in ways not specifically recited in the claims and or disclosed in the specification. Although each dependent claim listed below may directly depend on only one claim the disclosure of possible implementations includes each dependent claim in combination with every other claim in the claim set.

No element act or instruction used herein should be construed as critical or essential unless explicitly described as such. Also as used herein the articles a and an are intended to include one or more items and may be used interchangeably with one or more. Where only one item is intended the term one or similar language is used. Further the phrase based on is intended to mean based at least in part on unless explicitly stated otherwise.

