---

title: Measurements for the interworking of wireless wide area and wireless local area networks
abstract: Technology is discussed for capturing performance measurements from Wireless Wide Area Network (WWAN) transmission points and Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN) Access Points (AP). The performance measurements can provide information about the interworking a WWAN and one or more WLANs that can be used to offload traffic from the WWAN. Also, an illustrative example of the collection of performance measurements at a WWAN is explained. Furthermore, the correlation, analysis, and general harnessing of performance measurements to optimize and/or maintain combinations between a WWAN and one or more WLANs is discussed, among other topics.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09049608&OS=09049608&RS=09049608
owner: INTEL CORPORATION
number: 09049608
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120809
---
This application claims the benefit of and hereby incorporates by reference U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 556 109 filed Nov. 4 2011.

The amount of data that Wireless Wide Area Networks WWAN are being required to handle continues to increase. Some reasons for these increases include the accelerated adoption of smart phones and tablets and the emergence of cloud computing applications. Unfortunately the deployment of additional cellular radio towers tower to meet these demands is costly. Additionally implementation of advanced technologies within wireless cellular networks is also costly is done over extended periods of time and involves other inherent constraints.

Wireless Local Areas Networks WLAN provide an alternative mode of wireless communication. Non limiting examples of such networks are provided in the specifications of Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.11 and IEEE 802.15. However the localized nature of WLANs prevent them from supporting true mobility in wireless communications. Indeed the differences between WWANs and WLANs have presented obstacles to the use of one type of network to support the other.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

Different terminology for wireless mobile devices is used in different specifications. As used herein a wireless mobile device can be a User Equipment UE a Mobile Station MS among other possibilities. Throughout this application the terms wireless mobile device UE and MS can be used interchangeably.

As used herein the term cellular radio tower is defined as a wireless communication device in a wide area wireless network configured to communicate with a plurality of wireless mobile devices located within a geographic region referred to as a cell. Different terminologies for cellular radio towers are used in different specifications. Terminology used for different variations of a cellular radio tower can include but is not limited to a Base Station BS an evolved Node B eNodeB or eNB a WWAN transmission point and a WWAN node. The terms are used interchangeably unless otherwise noted. The actual definition of a BS or eNodeB is provided in their Institute of Electronics and Electrical Engineers IEEE 802.16 and Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP specifications. As an important statement of the generality of embodiments discussed in this disclosure while the terminology of the 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE standard is often used throughout this specification it is not intended to be limiting and there are exceptions in the use of more general terminology in portions of this specification to further communicate this point.

As used herein the term substantially refers to the complete or nearly complete extent or degree of an action characteristic property state structure item or result. For example an object that is substantially enclosed would mean that the object is either completely enclosed or nearly completely enclosed. The exact allowable degree of deviation from absolute completeness may in some cases depend on the specific context. However generally speaking the nearness of completion will be so as to have the same overall result as if absolute and total completion were obtained. The use of substantially is equally applicable when used in a negative connotation to refer to the complete or near complete lack of an action characteristic property state structure item or result.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The economic time and innovation constraints on conventional approaches to meet the ever increasing size of the load being placed on Wireless Wide Area Networks WWAN necessitates the pursuit of additional avenues to reduce the ever increasing load on the WWAN. Wireless Local Area Networks WLAN despite their limitations offer an avenue to offload data for a significant percentage of traffic handled by WWANs. Indeed wireless cellular network operators have already begun to deploy WLAN Access Points AP and to rely on WLANs to offload traffic in particular areas of WWANs and at particular times. Whereas the use of WLAN APs has been more of a niche solution in the past WLAN APs will likely play a more and more essential role in offloading data as data loads increase. Greater reliance on WLANs and WLAN APs raises many performance related issues.

Currently however no mechanism exists to provide critical performance related data for WLAN APs deployed in coordination with WWANs. This performance data can be used to determine data loads on both the WWAN and WLAN to allow a network operator to optimize the flow of data traffic based on historic use and near real time measurements across the WWAN and WLAN. In addition collected information can be used to determine if WLAN APs are meeting objectives of data offloading to detect problems with WLAN APs and the network generally and to assist in decisions about the use of WLAN APs among other reasons. Since mobile data traffic can fluctuate rapidly performance measurements from both the WWAN and WLAN APs need to be collected and correlated frequently. Ideally approaches to collecting this information can rely on as much legacy infrastructure as possible.

A combination of integrated elements can be used to capture collect determine and or measure information about wireless mobiles devices data throughput and other performance related metrics at one or more WWAN nodes and WLAN APs. As used herein the term WWAN node can refer to a WWAN transmission point. Depending on the embodiment these measurements can be made by one or more individual WLAN APs WWAN nodes and sub network servers in communication with a sub set of one or more WLAN APs and WWAN nodes within the combined network. Information related to a WLAN AP can be correlated and or mapped to a WWAN node based on the location of the WLAN AP within the coverage area of the WWAN node.

The information can then be communicated to a server in the Evolved Packet Core EPC of the WWAN or another type of system level server in the WWAN or in communication with the WWAN. The centralized WWAN server can perform calculations to monitor metrics related to the interworking of the WWAN and one or more WLANs. These metrics can be used to automatically adjust data flows and or indicate actions to be pursued by the WWAN operator.

Such metrics can include by way of illustration and not limitation the percentage of data throughput being offloaded from a WWAN to each WLAN AP in a cell at any given time. If the percentage is constantly lower than expected over a period of time it may be an indication of issues in one or more wireless mobile devices WWAN nodes or WLAN APs that can be investigated. Similarly the constantly low percentages can result in a redirection of data flows away from corresponding WLAN APs.

Additional examples of such metrics can include the percentage of the number of active wireless mobile devices having data that is offloaded from the WWAN node to one or more WLAN APs. If the percentage is constantly lower than expected over a period of time it may also be an indication of issues in one or more wireless mobile devices WWAN nodes or WLAN APs that can be investigated. Again the constantly low percentages can result in a redirection of data flows away from corresponding WLAN APs. The percentage of data throughput and number of active wireless mobile devices can be used to assist network planning to determine if or where additional WLAN AP may need to be deployed and or control an amount of data which can be automatically directed to the WWAN or WLAN based on the collected statistics. Several other alternatives indicative of a level of integration between the WWAN and the WLAN are possible. Additional details are discussed below.

Each of the cells has multiple units of User Equipment UE traffic within its geographic region of coverage. Each unit of UE traffic is classified as corresponding to either stationary mobile UE traffic or truly mobile UE traffic as indicated by the example instances labeled in . As used herein the term stationary mobile UE traffic describes UE traffic from one or more UEs that are sufficiently stationary that data can be communicated via a WLAN. The WLAN may be configured based on a proprietary standard such as the IEEE 802.11 2007 IEEE 802.11 2011 standard IEEE 802.15 standard Bluetooth standard or another type of WLAN standard.

As used herein the term truly mobile UE traffic describes UE data traffic that uses the services of a WWAN such as without limitation an Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network E UTRAN or a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS based on the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM standard.

Within the first cell a first cluster of units of stationary mobile UE traffic is depicted by a dashed ellipse. This cluster can pertain to a group of relatively stationary UEs belonging to WLAN network users at an office building or hotspots deployed by operators. It can also cover a mobile environment where UEs can roam about within the coverage area of the WLAN. A second cluster of stationary UE traffic is depicted in the fourth cell . The smaller number of units of stationary mobile UE traffic is used to denote a smaller WLAN such as might be found in a store a business a restaurant or a home.

Throughout the WWAN the relative number of units of stationary mobile UE traffic to units of truly mobile UE traffic 7 is chosen to coincide with the histogram also depicted in reporting a Cumulative Distribution Function CDF for one study about percentages of wireless traffic that is sufficiently mobile to require the resources of a WWAN. As can be appreciated only 35 of the UE traffic according to this study is sufficiently mobile to necessitate the support for mobility provided by a WWAN. In other words as much as 65 of the traffic can be offloaded to one or more WLANs.

In contrast to where each tower is located at the center of a single cell illustrates an embodiment wherein two distinct cells are depicted associated with a single WWAN tower . The variations in the depictions of cells towers and other elements serves to emphasize that limitation to a particular configuration hardware standard etc. is not intended. For example the first cell and the second cell could be the results of beam forming and or carrier aggregation. In some examples they could also be the embodiment of sectors of in a cell as depicted in .

Within the first cell five WLAN APs AP 1 to AP 5 are distributed. Within the second cell four additional WLAN APs AP 6 to AP 9 are distributed. In various embodiments the first cell and the second cells could be one of many cells within an E UTRAN. These WLAN APs can be pre existing and or distributed by a WWAN operator for purposes of offloading traffic from the WWAN.

In many embodiments traffic can be offloaded to one or more WLAN APs within an E UTRAN cell such as the first cell and the second cell in accordance with specifications particularly Technical Specification TS 23.234 of the Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE for Release 8 Release 9 Release 10 and Release 11. Throughout this application Release 11 can refer to the prerelease i.e. State 2 freeze issued by 3GPP LTE in March of 2012. As recognized by those of ordinary skill in the art additional specifications can be used to offload traffic to one or more WLAN APs from alternative WWANs such as a WWAN defined in Institute of Electronics and Electrical Engineers IEEE 802.16 commonly referred to as WiMAX.

WWAN operators have begun to deploy WLAN APs within WWAN cells in an ad hoc manner to offload traffic. However these deployments are not supported by approaches to determine if WLAN APs are meeting the objectives of offloading traffic. Performance measurements for WLAN APs and other integrated elements are typically not collected and analyzed relative to WWAN traffic to detect problems suggest improvements monitor loads automatically redirect data flows from the UEs to one of the WWAN and WLAN and so on. As more and more WLAN APs come to be relied upon for the offload of WWAN traffic the need for such measurement and analysis capabilities increases and the potential advantages grow. Furthermore due to the dynamic nature of traffic loads performance measurements need to be made collected and analyzed frequently.

Various unutilized elements of infrastructure presently existing in various specifications for WWANs can be used to measure collect and possibly analyze offloading statistics in a WWAN and WLAN. This infrastructure can also be used to monitor and redirect data flows. An example architecture relying on such infrastructural elements within a 3GPP LTE WWAN is discussed below by way of illustration not limitation. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize additional analogous infrastructural elements and protocols designated for alternative WWAN specifications such as WiMAX or GSM. To emphasize the general application of architectural structures such as the one discussed below generalized terminology will also be used in places for the following description.

Associated with each eNodeB and WLAN AP are multiple traffic indications. Depending on the embodiment these traffic indications can either denote units of stationary mobile UE traffic or units of truly mobile UE traffic similar to the units of stationary mobile UE traffic or units of truly mobile UE traffic depicted in . However they can also represent actual numbers of stationary mobile UEs or truly mobile UEs .

For scenarios in which the traffic indications correspond to actual UEs various exchanges between network elements are depicted. For example in a handover a truly mobile UE is depicted switching from the second eNodeB to the first eNodeB . This change between WWAN transmission points is a common handover procedure defined for various WWAN specifications. The offload stationary UE in the process of being offloaded from the second eNodeB to the first WLAN AP provides an example of the offloading central to the interworking of a WWAN with one or more WLANs. Details of the offloading process as stated above can be found in specifications of 3GPP LTE particularly TS 23.234 or analogous specifications for alternative WWANs. An inverse operation is also depicted with the newly truly mobile UE . This newly truly mobile UE is in the process of leaving the first WLAN AP to the second eNodeB to connect to an E UTRAN to support its newly entered state of mobility from its previous stationary state. Specifications for accessing a WWAN are common to WWAN specifications generally.

An involuntarily dropped UE is also depicted. The involuntarily dropped UE previously was served by the second WLAN AP . Tracking such involuntarily dropped UEs is important to the monitoring of combined WWAN WLAN systems as discussed below.

Additionally a Domain Manager DM as defined in 3GPP LTE TS 32.101 and other consistent specifications is depicted. In one embodiment a sub network server in communication with a sub set of one or more WLAN APs and WWAN nodes within the combined network can perform the functions of the DM in alternative embodiments. The use of multiple DMs is also possible. In addition illustrates the use of a Network Manager NM server as defined in 3GPP LTE TS 32.101 and other consistent specifications. However any number of different WWAN servers system servers and or system levels servers can be configured to operate as a network manager server as can be appreciated. As used herein the term system refers to a combined network with a WWAN and one or more WLANs and supporting infrastructure. An ORACLE Access Management OAM server provides one example of several different possibilities for a network manager server.

The eNodeBs WLAN APs and the DM can be designated as integrated elements and or network elements. An Element Manager EM can reside on any of these integrated elements. However there can be integrated elements that do not include an EM. As with the DM and the NM an EM is defined in 3GPP LTE TS 32.101 and other consistent specifications.

The EM can be configured to perform one or more performance measurements providing information about the performance of one or more WLAN APs and or WWAN nodes . Where the EM resides on a WLAN AP or WWAN node the EM can perform the measurement directly. Where the EM resides on a DM the EM configures one or more WLAN APs and or WWAN nodes to perform and report one or more performance measurements as indicated by the two way arrows between the DM and the second eNodeB and the first WLAN AP . A WLAN AP and or a WWAN node can be designated as a network element for which performance measurements are performed. Where a network element such as a WLAN AP or a WWAN node does not have an EM performance measurements are acquired indirectly through a DM. Performance measurements can be made in terms of the stationary traffic indications and the truly mobile traffic indications discussed above as associated with the various network elements.

As shown by the two way arrows between each EM and the NM WWAN server system server system level server in each EM can be in communication with the NM. Furthermore each EM can be configured to send the performance measurements to the WWAN server that is configured to collect such performance measurements from multiple interworking system elements. In certain embodiments performance measurements can be communicated to the NM from one or more EMs over an interface N Ift N as defined in specifications for any of 3GPP LTE Release 8 Release 9 Release 10 and Release 11. Analogous interfaces and or protocols pertaining to alternative WWAN specifications will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore depending on the embodiment an EM and or the NM can map the location of one or more WLAN APs to a coverage area of a particular eNodeB 

In certain embodiments the various functions performed by an EM as described above can be divided up into functions performed by various modules. The functionality of these modules will be discussed in greater detail below. Such modules can include for example and not by way of limitation a measurement module a communication module and a mapping module. In embodiments that rely on a WWAN specification apart from 3GPP LTE specifications these modules can be embodied in a device or some other element residing on the interworking elements defined above to serve the role of an EM.

As can be appreciated from the depiction of the NM in the performance measurements communicated to the NM can communicate information about the stationary traffic indications and the truly mobile traffic indications as associated with eNodeBs and WLAN APs generally and or individually. Information about the involuntarily dropped UE is also communicated. The other UEs communicating data that is in the process of being exchanged between system elements and are represented in the NM with their source system element in as much as the various exchanges are not yet completed. As discussed below this information can be used by the NM to assist in optimizing and maintaining the combined system of the WWAN with one or more WLANs.

The nature of the performance measurements can be chosen to contribute to the interworking between the WWAN and one or more WLANs. By way of illustration and not limitation the following are some examples of possible types of performance measurements. One example can include a measurement of an aggregate data throughput. Another example can include a data throughput per Quality of Service QoS class. Another example could be a number of connected wireless mobile devices. Yet another example comprises a number of dropped wireless mobile devices by the network element. Additional performance measurements related to the integration of a WWLAN with one or more WLANs will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. In some embodiments the performance measurement can be specific to a network element such as a WLAN AP or a WWAN node . Performance measurements can also report alarms indicative of problems at network elements.

Any combination of these measurements can be assignable to a time of day and or a day of the week. The time of day can be any unit of time sufficiently small to capture significant changes in the nature of traffic within the combined system. Example times of day can include early afternoon late afternoon and evening hours. However larger and finer granularities with respect to time are possible. Additionally these performance measurements can be collected and reported to the NM with sufficient frequency to allow for optimization of the system and near real time response to any failures or other problems. In this way large efficiencies are obtainable over a semi static approach. In current semi static approaches infrastructure is deployed based on a single set of measurements or on the basis of intuition and then left unattended except for periodic maintenance or servicing necessary to address obvious problems. Such approaches are incapable of achieving the levels of optimization and response achievable with frequent performance measurements.

To optimize maintain and or monitor the interworking of the WWAN and the one or more WLANs and or automatically control data flow the NM WWAN server system server system level server in can analyze the performance information to produce monitoring performance results. Examples of such monitoring and or interworking results can include results that can be used to monitor a percentage of data throughput at any given time being offloaded from a selected WWAN node or set of WWAN nodes to a selected WLAN AP or set of WLAN APs and or an overall percentage of data throughput being offloaded from a set of WWAN nodes to a set of WLAN APs wherein a set can comprise a single element.

If the percentage is consistently lower than a predetermined threshold over a period of time it may indicate issues with system elements and or their interworking with UEs that should be investigated. Where no traffic is offloaded to a given WLAN AP there may be a fault with the particular WLAN AP. Data flows can be automatically redirected from such APs. If the percentage of data traffic that is offloaded from the WWAN to the WLAN is consistently higher than a predetermined threshold deployment of additional WLAN APs in the WLAN may be in order. Similarly data flows can also be redirected to other WLANS or to other Aps within a WLAN to better balance the load. Additionally this metric can be used for network planning in the sense that if an eNodeB in the WWAN remains congested additional WLAN APs may also be in order to relieve data congestion at the eNodeB.

Additional examples include results that can be used to monitor a number of active wireless mobile devices associated with the selected WWAN node or set of WWAN nodes and connected to the selected WLAN AP or set of WLAN APs. Further examples can include a percentage of data throughput being offloaded from the selected WWAN node or set of WWAN nodes to a set of WLAN APs in a coverage area of the selected WWAN node or set of WWAN nodes. Similar automatic data flow determinations network planning and maintenance determinations such as those discussed above can be made based on these results. Information about a number of wireless mobile devices associated with the selected WWAN node or set of WWAN nodes and involuntarily disconnected from one or more WLAN APs within the coverage area can also be important to identify problems with a WLAN AP and to automatically control data flows between the WWAN and the WLAN.

The device can include a measurement module a communication module and or a mapping module . The measurement module can be configured to perform one or more performance measurements from the interworking element on which it resides. A performance measurement can provide information about the performance of one or more WLAN APs and or WWAN nodes for a combined system comprising a WWAN interworking with one or more WLANs.

The communication module can be in communication with the measurement module . The communication module can be configured to send one or more performance measurements to a WWAN server. The WWAN server can be configured to collect performance measurements from multiple interworking elements. In certain embodiments the communication module can send the performance measurement to the WWAN server over an interface N as defined in 3GPP LTE specifications for one of Release 8 Release 9 Release 10 and or Release 11.

Depending on the embodiment the device can also include a mapping module . The mapping module can be in communication with the measurement module . Also the mapping module can be configured to map a location of an interworking element comprising a particular WLAN AP to a coverage area of a particular WWAN node.

With respect to the performance measurements discussed above a performance measurement can comprise an aggregate data throughput a data throughput per QoS class a number of connected wireless mobile devices and or a number of dropped wireless mobile devices among other possibilities. Such a performance measurement can be specific to one or more WLAN APs and or WWAN nodes. In various embodiments the measurement module performs a series of performance measurements on one or more WLAN APs and at least one WWAN node with sufficient regularity for the calculation of monitoring results with a granularity defined by a day of a week and a traffic specific period of the day.

In certain embodiments the interworking element can be a sub network server of the WWAN. In some embodiments the sub network can comprise a DM. Additionally the measurement module in the sub network server can be configured to collect performance measurements on WLAN APs and or WWAN nodes within a sub network or the WWAN pertaining to the sub network server. In such embodiments the measurement module of the sub network server is configured to collect at least one performance measurement on the one or more WWAN nodes and or WLAN APs so that at least one monitoring result can be determined.

The monitoring result can comprise a percentage of data throughput being offloaded from a selected WWAN node to a selected WLAN AP. The monitoring result can also comprise a number of active wireless mobile devices associated with the selected WWAN node and connected to the selected WLAN AP. As another non limiting example the monitoring result can comprise a percentage of data throughput being offloaded from the selected WWAN node to a set of WLAN APs in a coverage area of the selected WWAN node. A number of wireless mobile devices associated with the selected WWAN node and involuntarily disconnected from a WLAN AP within the coverage area of the selected WWAN node comprises another non limiting example of a performance measurement.

In certain embodiments the measurement module and the communication module can reside in an EM at the interworking element. In such embodiments the WWAN server can comprise an NM. The EM and the NM can be configured as defined in 3GPP LTE specifications for one of Release 8 Release 9 Release 10 and Release 11.

The method can comprise making a performance measurement for a network element comprising one of a WWAN node and a WLAN AP. The performance measurement can be configured to provide information about a contribution of the network element to the interworking between the WWAN and the WLAN. Additionally the method can comprise communicating one or more performance measurements to a system server to optimize the interworking of the WWAN and the WLAN. In some embodiments the method can also comprise correlating the network element to a coverage area of a WWAN node in the WWAN.

The performance measurement can comprise an aggregate data throughput a throughput per QoS class a number of connected wireless mobile devices and a number of dropped wireless mobile devices. In some embodiments the performance measurements can correspond to a particular WWAN node and a particular WLAN AP within a coverage area of the particular WWAN node such that at least one interworking result can be determined the interworking result can comprise a percentage of data throughput being offloaded from the particular WWAN node to a particular or more than one WLAN AP. An interworking result can also be a number of active wireless mobile devices associated with the particular WWAN node and connected to the particular WLAN AP. As another example an interworking result can be a number of wireless mobile devices associated with the particular WWAN node and involuntarily disconnected from the particular WLAN AP within the coverage area of the particular WWAN node.

In certain embodiments involving an embedded in a computer program product the computer program product can reside on a sub network server capable of making a performance measurement on a WWAN node and a WLAN AP within a sub network pertaining to the sub network server. In such embodiments the system server can be located at one of a Serving GateWay S GW a Mobility Management Entity MME a Packet Data Network GateWay P GW and an external location connected to the P GW. The S GW the MME and the P GW are configured as defined in 3GPP LTE specifications for one of Release 8 Release 9 Release 10 and Release 11.

In some embodiments the WWAN node can be an evolved Node B. Additionally the step of communicating one or more performance measurements toward a system server can occur over an interface N. In such embodiments the system server can be a network manager. Additionally in such embodiments the computer program product can reside on an EM. The eNodeB the interface N the network manager and the element manager are configured as defined in 3GPP LTE specifications for one of Release 8 Release 9 Release 10 and Release 11. Also the WLAN AP can be an AP as defined in one of the IEEE 802.11 specifications and the IEEE 802.15 specifications.

The calculation module can be in communication with the collection module . The calculation module can be configured to calculate one or more performance results from the at least one performance measurement received by the collection module. One or more performance results can be used to optimize integration between the WWAN and one or more WLANs.

In some embodiments the performance result can comprise a percentage of data throughput being offloaded from a selected WWAN node to a selected WLAN AP. An additional example of a performance result can comprise a number of active wireless mobile devices associated with the selected WWAN node and connected to the selected WLAN AP. Another example can include a percentage of data throughput being offloaded from the selected WWAN node to a set of WLAN APs in a coverage area of the selected WWAN node. An additional example can be a number of wireless mobile devices associated with the selected WWAN node and involuntarily disconnected from a WLAN AP within the coverage area of the selected WWAN node. Other examples of performance results apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art are also possible.

Some embodiments can include a correlation module . The correlation module can be in communication with the collection module . Such a correlation module can be configured to correlate at least one performance measurement to a coverage area for a particular WWAN node at a given time.

Certain embodiments can include a monitoring module in communication with the calculation module . The monitoring module can be configured to provide an indication signal upon receiving a performance result calculated below a threshold value. The threshold value can be determined to optimize the interworking of a WWAN with one or more WLANs. The performance result can indicate a percentage of data throughput being offloaded from a particular WWAN node to a selected WLAN AP. The performance result can also indicate a number of active wireless mobile devices being offloaded from the particular WWAN node to the selected WLAN AP. In some embodiments the performance result can be a percentage of data throughput being offloaded from the particular WWAN node to the at least one WLAN AP within the coverage area of the particular WWAN node. Also among other possibilities a performance result can be a number of wireless mobile devices associated with the particular WWAN node and involuntarily disconnected from a WLAN AP within the coverage area of the particular WWAN node.

In some examples of the device the monitoring module can wait to provide the indication signal until the performance result is consistently calculated below the threshold value for a predetermined period of time. The period of time can be determined based on statistics of element performance. Also with respect to some devices the calculation module can calculate the performance result with sufficient frequency such that the performance result can be correlated with a specific day and a traffic specific period of the day.

In some embodiments the system server can be an NM located at one or more of a Software Gate Way S GW a Mobility Management Entity MME a Packet Data Network GateWay P GW and or an external location connected to the P GW. The NM S GW MME and P GW can be configured as defined in 3GPP LTE specifications for any of Release 8 Release 9 Release 10 and Release 11. The WWAN node can be an eNodeB as defined 3GPP LTE specifications for any of Release 8 Release 9 Release 10 and Release 11. Also the WLAN AP can be an AP as defined in one of the IEEE 802.11 specifications and the IEEE 802.15 specifications or another WLAN specification such as Bluetooth.

The performance result can comprise a percentage of data throughput being offloaded from the particular eNodeB to a given WLAN AP. Another example of a performance result is a number of active UEs being offloaded from the particular eNodeB to the given WLAN AP. Additionally a percentage of data throughput being offloaded from the particular eNodeB to one or more WLAN APs within the coverage area of the particular eNodeB provides another example of a performance result. The performance result can also be a number of UEs being offloaded from the particular eNodeB to one or more WLAN APs within the coverage area of the particular eNodeB.

The method can also comprise monitoring the performance result s to provide a message when the value of the performance result s has been below a threshold for a predetermined amount of time. Additionally the method can involve calculating the performance result for a given network element at a set of time intervals. Each time interval in the set of time intervals can correspond to a duration of a predetermined period corresponding to an anticipated distinct traffic load.

In some embodiments the system server can be an NM located at one or more of an S GW an MME a P GW and or an external location connected to the P GW. The NM S GW MME and P GW can be configured as defined in 3GPP LTE specifications for any of Release 8 Release 9 Release 10 and Release 11. The WWAN node can be an eNodeB as defined 3GPP LTE specifications for any of Release 8 Release 9 Release 10 and Release 11. Also the WLAN AP can be an AP as defined in one of the IEEE 802.11 specifications and the IEEE 802.15 specifications.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of materials fasteners sizes lengths widths shapes etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

