---

title: Context aware document services for mobile device users
abstract: Systems and methods for providing document services to users thereof. The methods involve: obtaining context information describing at least one aspect of a current situation of a user of a mobile communication device; receiving a request for a document service in response to a user software interaction at the mobile communication device; and adapting the document service based on the context information. The document service comprises a print service, a document conversion service, a document workflow service, a secure access service, or a web service. The obtaining, receiving and adapting steps are collectively performed by at least one of the mobile communication device and a computing device (e.g., a server) remotely located from the mobile communication device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08842319&OS=08842319&RS=08842319
owner: Xerox Corporation
number: 08842319
owner_city: Norwalk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120821
---
This document relates generally to a system for performing document services using mobile computing devices and more particularly to a system for providing users of mobile computing devices with context aware document services.

With the commercialization of Information Technology IT and the transition to a mobile workforce the use of mobile computing devices is becoming more prevalent among business organizations. The mobile computing devices typically include Personal Digital Assistants PDAs smartphones tablet computers ultra mobile Personal Computers PCs and wearable computers. As a result of the increased use of IT by business organizations mobile workers have become significant consumers of document services e.g. printing copying duplicating scanning imaging document conversion document workflow secure access and web services . The mobile workers expect the same document services and capabilities as those provided to them by desktop computers.

Embodiments described in this document concern systems and methods for providing document services to users thereof. The methods involve obtaining context information describing at least one aspect of a current situation of a user of a mobile communication device receiving a request for a document service in response to a user software interaction at the mobile communication device and adapting the document service based on the context information. The obtaining receiving and adapting steps are collectively performed by at least one of the mobile communication device and a computing device e.g. a server remotely located from the mobile communication device. The document service may include but is not limited to a print service a document conversion service a document workflow service a secure access service or a web service.

The context information includes but is not limited to physical context information logical context information and mobile device context information. The physical context information specifies a location of the mobile communication device a network connectivity to the mobile communication device movement of the mobile communication device a past location history identifying geographic locations and places visited by the user a past network connectivity history and or a history of mobile device movement. The logical context information specifies an entitlement a security setting a preference setting a user profile a relationship between the user and another person an entitlement history a security setting history a preference setting history a user profile history and or a user relationship history. The mobile device context information specifies at least one capability of the mobile communication device.

According to aspects of the present invention the methods further involve analyzing the context information to determine if the user is in a public environment or a private environment adapting the document service in a first manner if the user is in a public environment and adapting the document service in a second manner if the user is in a private environment. In such scenarios the second manner is the same as or different than the first manner.

According to other aspects of the present invention the methods further involve capturing an image of a document using a camera of the mobile communication device receiving a request to submit the image to a workflow and submitting the image to the workflow only if it is determined based on the context information that the user is authorized to do so at a present time. Information may be logged which describes activities related to the provision of the document service that are performed by at least one of the mobile communication device and the computing device.

According to yet other aspects of the present invention the methods further involve receiving a request to print a document or an image of the document at the mobile communication device identifying based on the context information at least one printer located at or near a current location of the user that may handle the document or image and printing the document or image using the identified printer only if it is determined based on the context information that the user is authorized to print the document or image using a printer at or near a current location of the user.

It will be readily understood that the components of the embodiments as generally described herein and illustrated in the appended figures could be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Thus the following more detailed description of various embodiments as represented in the figures is not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure but is merely representative of various embodiments. While the various aspects of the embodiments are presented in drawings the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale unless specifically indicated.

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by this detailed description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

Reference throughout this specification to features advantages or similar language does not imply that all of the features and advantages that may be realized with the present invention should be or are in any single embodiment of the invention. Rather language referring to the features and advantages is understood to mean that a specific feature advantage or characteristic described in connection with an embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus discussions of the features and advantages and similar language throughout the specification may but do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment.

Furthermore the described features advantages and characteristics of the invention may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize in light of the description herein that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific features or advantages of a particular embodiment. In other instances additional features and advantages may be recognized in certain embodiments that may not be present in all embodiments of the invention.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment an embodiment or similar language means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the indicated embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus the phrases in one embodiment in an embodiment and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment.

As used in this document the singular form a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. As used in this document the term comprising means including but not limited to .

Embodiments will now be described with respect to . Embodiments generally relate to systems and methods for providing document services that leverage information about the context of a user. The term document service as used herein refers to services for managing documents. As such document services may include but are not limited to printing copying duplicating scanning imaging document conversion document workflow secure access and web services. The context can include but is not limited to information relating to aspects of a user s situation that can affect functionality of a mobile device and or document services. This information includes physical context information logical context information and mobile device context information. Physical context information specifies a location of a mobile device e.g. global positioning system information a network connectivity to the mobile device movement of the mobile device a past location history indentifying geographic locations and or places e.g. stores visited by a user a past network connectivity history and or a history of mobile device movement. Logical context information specifies an entitlement i.e. the document services that a particular user is entitled to use security settings e.g. certain types of documents can not be submitted to a workflow via a mobile device located in a public establishment preference settings a user profile relationships between users an entitlement history a security setting history a preference setting history a user profile history and or a user relationship history. Mobile device information specifies the capabilities of the mobile device. By leveraging the above described context information document services can be tailored to maximize productivity and overall user satisfaction with the document services. The term to tailor as used herein means to make alter or adapt for a particular end or purpose. For example a tailored document service can comprise a service that was altered or adapted in accordance with a current situation of a mobile device user.

Referring now to there is provided a schematic illustration of an example of a system . The system is generally configured to tailor or adapt document services for users based on context information relating thereto. In this regard the system comprises components located within a private environment and a public environment . The private environment can include but is not limited to a business facility with restricted access to employees and visitors of employees. A public environment can include but is not limited to a public library or a public document service provider facility. Notably the document services can be tailored or adapted similarly or differently for users of Mobile Communication Devices MCD located in private public environments based on the context information associated therewith. This feature of the present invention will become more evident as the discussion progresses.

The private environment can include but is not limited to a gateway a private network a computing device a server a database and a plurality of document handling devices . The gateway facilitates communications between the MCD and devices of the private network . MCD can include a mobile phone a PDA a smartphone a tablet computer or a mobile PC. The private network may comprise an Intranet or any other type of network with restricted access thereto. The document handling devices can include a printer a seamier a copier a fax machine and or a multi functional device . Each of the listed devices is well known in the art and therefore will not be described herein. The computing device is able to communicate using the private network or a public network . As such MCD can also communicate with computing device via public network .

The public environment can include but is not limited to a computing device and a multi functional device . The computing device is configured to communicate with the MCD via the public network . MCD can include a mobile phone a PDA a smartphone a tablet computer or a mobile PC. The public network can include the Internet or any other network that does not have restricted access. The multi functional device has a printing capability a copying capability a fax capability and a scanning capability.

Notably the MCDs servers and or computing device implement novel methods for providing document services that leverage information about the context of users. Examples of such methods will be described below in relation to . These methods generally involve adapting printing services document workflow services document automation services document access services and document chain of custody services based on context information. In this regard the devices employ document service software implementing all or a portion of such methods. This document service software will be described in detail below.

Referring now to there is provided a schematic illustration of an example of an architecture for MCD . MCD is the same as or similar to MCD . As such the discussion provided below in relation to MCD is sufficient for understanding the hardware and software architecture thereof. Notably MCD may include more or less components than those shown in . However the components shown are sufficient to disclose an illustrative embodiment implementing the present invention. Some or all of the components of the MCD can be implemented as hardware software and or a combination of hardware and software. The hardware includes but is not limited to one or more electronic circuits.

The hardware architecture of represents one embodiment of a representative MCD configured to facilitate the adapting of document services for users based on context information relating thereto. In this regard MCD comprises an antenna for receiving and transmitting Radio Frequency RF signals. A receive transmit Rx Tx switch selectively couples the antenna to the transmitter circuitry and receiver circuitry in a manner familiar to those skilled in the art. The receiver circuitry demodulates and decodes the RF signals received from a network e.g. the network of or a gateway e.g. gateway of to derive information therefrom. The receiver circuitry is coupled to a controller or microprocessor via an electrical connection . The receiver circuitry provides the decoded signal information to the controller . The controller uses the decoded RF signal information in accordance with the function s of the MCD .

The controller also provides information to the transmitter circuitry for encoding and modulating information into RF signals. Accordingly the controller is coupled to the transmitter circuitry via an electrical connection . The transmitter circuitry communicates the RF signals to the antenna for transmission to an external device e.g. a gateway or a node of a public network of via the Rx Tx switch .

An antenna is coupled to Global Positioning System GPS receiver circuitry for receiving GPS signals. The GPS receiver circuitry demodulates and decodes the GPS signals to extract GPS location information therefrom. The GPS location information indicates the location of the MCD . The GPS receiver circuitry provides the decoded GPS location information to the controller . As such the GPS receiver circuitry is coupled to the controller via an electrical connection . The controller uses the decoded GPS location information in accordance with the function s of the MCD . For example the GPS location information can be used by the MCD to tailor or adapt document services for a user thereof.

The controller stores the decoded RF signal information and the decoded GPS location information in a memory of the MCD . Accordingly the memory is connected to and accessible by the controller through an electrical connection . The memory may be a volatile memory and or a non volatile memory. For example the memory can include but is not limited to a Random Access Memory RAM a Dynamic Random Access Memory DRAM a Static Random Access Memory SRAM a Read Only Memory ROM and a flash memory. The memory may also comprise unsecure memory and or secure memory. The phrase unsecure memory as used herein refers to memory configured to store data in a plain text form. The phrase secure memory as used herein refers to memory configured to store data in an encrypted form and or memory having or being disposed in a secure or tamper proof enclosure. The memory can also be used to store various other types of information therein such as authentication information cryptographic information physical context information logical context information mobile device context information and various document related information.

As shown in one or more sets of instructions are stored in the memory . The instructions include customizable instructions and non customizable instructions. The instructions can also reside completely or at least partially within the controller during execution thereof by MCD . In this regard the memory and the controller can constitute machine readable media. The term machine readable media as used here refers to a single medium or multiple media that stores one or more sets of instructions . The term machine readable media as used here also refers to any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying the set of instructions for execution by the MCD and that causes the MCD to perform one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure.

The controller is also connected to a user interface . The user interface is comprised of input devices output devices and software routines not shown in configured to allow a user to interact with and control software applications e.g. document service application software and other software applications installed on the MCD . Such input and output devices may include but are not limited to a display a speaker a keypad a directional pad not shown in a directional knob not shown in a microphone and a camera . The display may be designed to accept touch screen inputs. As such user interface can facilitate a user software interaction for launching applications e.g. document service application software installed on the MCD . The user interface can facilitate a user software interactive session for writing and reading document related data stored in memory . This document related data can include but is not limited to image data defining image s of documents obtained using camera data describing a workflow request data describing print copy fax scan request and data describing print copy fax scan jobs.

The display keypad directional pad not shown in and directional knob not shown in can collectively provide a user with a means to initiate one or more software applications or functions of the MCD . The document service application software can facilitate the provision of document services that are specifically tailored or adapted to the context of a user of the MCD . In this regard as shown in the document service application software comprises any or all of the following a document service application a web browser application an email application other messaging applications and a camera photo application . The document service application is generally operative to communicate with computing device e.g. devices and or of using a service Application Programming Interface API . The web browser is generally operative to facilitate user access to document service websites and document repositories e.g. database of . The email and messaging applications are generally operative to allow users to receive various notifications regarding document services. The camera photo application is generally operative to facilitate capturing of images of documents to be submitted to a workflow or to a document handling device e.g. a printer .

During operation the document service application software obtains information about the context of the user of the MCD . This information can include but is not limited to physical context information logical context information and mobile device context information. Physical context information specifies a location of MCD e.g. GPS information a network connectivity to MCD movement of MCD a past location history indentifying cities and or stores visited by the user of MCD a past network connectivity history and or a history of MCD movement. Logical context information specifies an entitlement i.e. the document services that the user is entitled to use security settings e.g. certain types of documents can not be submitted to a workflow via MCD when it is located in a public environment preference settings a user profile relationships between the user of MCD and users of other network equipment e.g. devices and or of an entitlement history a security setting history a preference setting history a user profile history and or a user relationship history. Mobile device information specifies the capabilities of the mobile device.

The document service application software also performs one or more of the following store the context information in memory access captured images of documents stored in memory process such images to improve the quality thereof generate messages including at least a portion of the context information generate messages including requests to submit an image to a workflow communicate messages to and from external devices process the context information to determine if a user is authorized to submit an image of a document to a workflow at the present time present an indication to the user of the MCD that s he is or is not authorized to submit a document image to a workflow at the present time submit a document image to a workflow and add information about a workflow request to a log file.

The document service application software further performs one or more of the following receive requests from the user of the MCD to print an image of a document that was previously captured by camera and or a document which is stored in a remotely located database e.g. database of generate messages including requests to print images documents process context information to determine if the user is authorized to print an image document using a printer at or near her his current location present an indication to the user of the MCD that s he is or is not authorized to print an image document using a printer at or near her his current location identify one or more printers that are at or near the user s current location by which the image document can be printed based on context information present information identifying a first printer or an ordered list of second printers at or near her his current location by which the image document may be printed receive a user request to print the image document from the first printer or a user selected one of the second printers determine an optimization communication path based on context information send a print request message to a printer and add information about a print request and or a print job to a log file.

Referring now to there is provided a block diagram of an embodiment of the server . The server of can be the same as or similar to server . As such the following discussion of server is sufficient for understanding server of . Notably some or all of the components of the server can be implemented as hardware software and or a combination of hardware and software. The hardware includes but is not limited to one or more electronic circuits.

The server may include more or less components than those shown in . However the components shown are sufficient to disclose an illustrative embodiment implementing the present invention. The hardware architecture of represents one embodiment of a representative computing device configured to facilitate the adapting of document services for users based on context information relating thereto. As such the server of implements at least a portion of improved methods for providing document services that leverage information about the context of a user in accordance with various embodiments.

As shown in the server includes a system interface a user interface a Central Processing Unit CPU a system bus a memory connected to and accessible by other portions of server through system bus and hardware entities connected to system bus . At least some of the hardware entities perform actions involving access to and use of memory which can be a RAM a disk driver and or a Compact Disc ROM CD ROM .

System interface allows the server to communicate directly or indirectly with external communication devices e.g. MCD and or computing device of . If the server is communicating indirectly with the external communication device then the server is sending and receiving communications through a common network e.g. the network shown in .

Hardware entities can include a disk drive unit comprising a computer readable storage medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software code configured to implement one or more of the methodologies procedures or functions described herein. The instructions can also reside completely or at least partially within the memory and or within the CPU during execution thereof by the server . The memory and the CPU also can constitute machine readable media. The term machine readable media as used here refers to a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions . The term machine readable media as used here also refers to any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the server and that cause the server to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure.

In some embodiments of the present invention the hardware entities include an electronic circuit e.g. a processor programmed for facilitating a provision of document services that leverage information about the context of users. In this regard it should be understood that the electronic circuit can access and run document service software and other types of software installed on the server . As shown in the document service software comprises a Solution Application Programming Interface SAPI a data extraction engine workflow software Business Intelligence Analysis BIA software and System Interface SI software . The SAPI facilitates the provision of an interface between server and document handling devices e.g. devices and or of . The data extraction engine is operative to automate character recognition and form validation. The workflow software is operative to process business rules audit reporting control reporting and manage workflow operations. The BIA software is designed to retrieve analyze and report data. The SI software facilitates the provision of interfaces between the server and other public private devices owned by other business organizations.

During operation the document service software performs operations to facilitate decisions as to whether users are authorized to submit images of documents to workflows at specific times the display of information to users indicating that they are or are not authorized to submit images of documents to workflows the submissions of document images to workflows and or the recording of some or all of the document service related activities performed by the server.

The document service software also performs operations to facilitate any or all of the following decisions as to whether users are authorized to print images documents using printers at or near their current locations the display of information to users indicating that they are or are not authorized to print images documents using printers at or near their current locations an identification of one or more printers at or near the users current locations that they may use to print images documents the display of information identifying a single printer or a plurality of printers at or near the users current locations by which the images documents can be printed the generation of an ordered list of printers at or near the users current locations by which the images documents can be printed the determination of communication paths which are preferred in given situations along which print request messages including the images documents are to travel the improvement of image quality and or the printing of images documents from a specified printer or a user selected printer.

Referring now to there is provided a flow diagram of a method for submitting an image of a document to a workflow. The method begins with step and continues to step . In step a document service application e.g. document service application software of is run on an MCD e.g. MCD or of . Next context information is obtained by the MCD as shown by step . The context information includes but is not limited to physical context information logical context information and mobile device context information. The context information is then stored in a memory device e.g. memory device of of the MCD as shown by step .

At some point during use of the MCD the user thereof may desire to submit an image of a document to a workflow. Accordingly the user may perform user software interactions in step for capturing an image of a document using a camera e.g. camera of of the MCD. This image is also referred to herein as a document image . Once an image has been captured an optional step is performed where a request message is generated by the MCD in response to a user software interaction. The request message includes all or a portion of the context information obtained in previous step . The request message may also include a request to submit the image captured in previous step to a workflow.

The request message may be communicated from the MCD to a computing device e.g. computing device server or server of that is remotely located from the MCD as shown by step . The computing device can be selected in step from a plurality of computing devices based on the location of the user of the MCD. For example server of is selected if the user is out of the office. Alternatively server is selected if the user is in the office.

In a next step the context information is processed by the MCD or the computing device selected in previous step . The context information is processed to determine if the user is authorized to submit the document image to the workflow at this time. The determination is made based on whether an administrator e.g. an expense report administrator is currently available unavailable to provide authorization for such a submission e.g. a submission of an expense report whether the capabilities of the camera of the MCD are satisfactory for the type of document for which an image is to be submitted i.e. images of documents of particular types are required to have a particular resolution whether the user is in a private or public environment and or the level of security assigned to the type of document for which an image is to be submitted. The level of security can include but is not limited to non confidential confidential secret and top secret. For example an image of a document including confidential and or secret information can only be submitted to a workflow by an MCD via a private network e.g. network of and not a public network e.g. network of . In contrast an image of a document including non confidential information may be submitted to a workflow via a private network and a public network.

If it is determined that the user is not authorized to submit the document image to the workflow NO then an optional step may be performed. In optional step the MCD may perform actions for indicating to the user thereof that s he is not authorized to submit the document image to the workflow at this time. The indication can include but is not limited to an emission of light from a Light Emitting Diode LED an output of noise from a speaker e.g. speaker of of the MCD and or a display of a graphical element e.g. an icon on a display e.g. display of of the MCD. Upon completing optional step information about the workflow is added to a log file by the MCD and or the computing device selected in previous step as shown by optional step . The logging of such information facilitates the provision of a chain of custody document service. Subsequently step is performed where the method ends or other processing is performed.

If it is determined that the user is authorized to submit the document image to the workflow YES then an optional step may be performed. In optional step a response message may be sent from the remotely located computing device to the MCD indicating that the user is authorized to submit the document image to the workflow at this time. Thereafter in step the MCD may perform actions for indicating to the user thereof that s he is authorized to submit the document image to the workflow at this time. The indication can include but is not limited to an emission of light from an LED an output of noise from a speaker e.g. speaker of of the MCD and or a display of a graphical element e.g. an icon on a display e.g. display of of the MCD. The MCD also performs actions in step to submit the document image to the workflow in response to the reception of a user request. Upon completing step information about the workflow is added to a log file by the MCD and or the computing device selected in previous step as shown by optional step . Subsequently step is performed where the method ends or other processing is performed.

Referring now to there is provided a flow diagram of an exemplary method for printing a document image or a document by a printer at or near a current location of a user of an MCD. The method begins at step and continues with step . In step a document service application e.g. document service application software of is run on an MCD e.g. MCD or of . Next context information is obtained by the MCD as shown by step . The context information includes but is not limited to physical context information logical context information and mobile device context information. The context information is then stored in a memory device e.g. memory device of of the MCD as shown by step .

At some point during use of the MCD the user thereof may desire to print an image of a document. Accordingly the user may perform user software interactions in step for capturing an image of a document using a camera e.g. camera of of the MCD. This image is also referred to herein as a document image . Once the document image has been captured step is performed where a request is received from the user of the document service application to print the document image or a document stored in a remotely located database e.g. database of . In response to the reception of this request the MCD may generate a request message in optional step . The request message includes all or a portion of the context information obtained in previous step . The request message can also include a request to print the document image or the document stored in the remotely located database.

The request message may be communicated from the MCD to a computing device e.g. computing device server or server of that is remotely located from the MCD as shown by optional step . The computing device can be selected in step from a plurality of computing devices based on the location of the user of the MCD. For example server of is selected if the user is out of the office. Alternatively server is selected if the user is in the office. In all scenarios the computing device is executing context based document service software e.g. document service software of .

In a next step the context information is processed by the MCD or remotely located computing device. The context information is processed to determine if the user is authorized to print the document image or the remotely stored document using a printer at or near her his current location. The determination is based on whether the user of the MCD has the requisite privilege to access the document whether the user is in a public environment or a private environment and or whether the type of document is allowed to be printed using a public printer.

If it is determined that the user is not authorized to print the document image or remotely stored document using a printer at or near her his current location NO then optional step or step is performed. Optional step involves performing actions by the MCD to indicate to the user thereof that s he is not authorized to print the document image or remotely stored document using a printer at or near her his current location. The indication can include but is not limited to an emission of light from an LED an output of noise from a speaker e.g. speaker of of the MCD and or a display of a graphical element e.g. an icon on a display e.g. display of of the MCD. Thereafter information about the print request may be added to a log file by the MCD or the remotely located computing device as shown by steps and . The information is logged for tracking document service activities related to the document image or remotely stored document. Subsequently step is performed where the method ends or other processing is performed.

If it is determined that the user is authorized to print the document image or remotely stored document using a printer at or near her his current location YES then optional step is performed. In optional step the MCD or remote located computing device performs operations to identify one or more printers that are at or near the user s current location by which the document image or remotely stored document can be printed. The printer s is are identified based on all or a portion of the context information obtained in previous step . For example the printer s is are selected based on whether a printer was previously used by the user of the MCD whether the printer is identified as a favorite printer of the user whether the user has an account with the public provider of document services to which the printer belongs whether the document image or remotely stored document is allowed to be printed using a private printer and or a public printer the distance of the printer to the user and or the printing capabilities of the printer such as whether the printer can print in color .

In a next step the MCD performs operations to indicate to the user thereof that s he is authorized to print the document from a printer at or near her his current location. Also information identifying a first printer or a plurality of second printers can be presented to the user of the MCD in optional step . The first and second printers include printers that are located at or near the current location of the user of the MCD by which the document image or remotely stored document may be printed. The plurality of second printers can be presented in an ordered list format. The printers can be ordered based on all or a portion of the context information.

Once the user is notified that s he is authorized to print the user performs user software interactions to generate a print request as shown by step . The print request includes a request to print the document image or the remotely located document from the first printer or a user selected one of the plurality of second printers. In response to the user s print request the MCD or remotely located computing device determines a communication path along which a printing message is to travel which is preferred in a given situation. The printing message includes the document image or the remotely located document. The communication path is determined based on all or a portion of the context information. For example the communication path can be selected based on the size of the document image or the remotely stored document the location of the user the type of environment the user is currently in and or any time delays experienced in the system e.g. system of . Also in optional step the document image may be processed to improve the quality thereof. The processing of step can be performed by the MCD or the remotely located computing device.

After the communication path has been selected the printing message is generated in step . The printing message is then sent in step to the first printer or the user selected second printer via the communication path. In response to the reception of the printing message the document is printed in step by the first printer or the user selected second printer. Information about the print job may be added to a log file in optional step . The print job information can be logged for providing a document service tracking feature. Subsequently step is performed where the method ends or other processing is performed.

All of the apparatus methods and algorithms disclosed and claimed herein can be made and executed without undue experimentation in light of the present disclosure. While the invention has been described in terms of preferred embodiments it will be apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art that variations may be applied to the apparatus methods and sequence of steps of the method without departing from the concept spirit and scope of the invention. More specifically it will be apparent that certain components may be added to combined with or substituted for the components described herein while the same or similar results would be achieved. All such similar substitutes and modifications apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art are deemed to be within the spirit scope and concept of the invention as defined.

The features and functions disclosed above as well as alternatives may be combined into many other different systems or applications. Various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements may be made by those skilled in the art each of which is also intended to be encompassed by the disclosed embodiments.

