---

title: On line web portal for private network service providers
abstract: A web-enabled user interface is provided to enable the carriers of private networks to interact and to offer services to one another. The web-enabled user interface is integrated to a switch fabric configured to provide interconnection services for the carriers. The web-enabled user interface is configured to enable the carriers to assign different roles to different representatives. Each of the representatives is granted certain rights and permissions by an administrator representative based on the representative's role. The web-enabled user interface is configured to present to each representative a unique interface based on their roles thus providing each representative a unique experience.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08751323&OS=08751323&RS=08751323
owner: Equinix, Inc.
number: 08751323
owner_city: Foster City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120913
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit as a continuation of U.S. Application titled AN ON LINE WEB PORTAL FOR PRIVATE NETWORK SERVICE PROVIDERS filed on Sep. 2 2010 having application Ser. No. 12 875 048 which claims the benefit of and priority to all four 1 U.S. Provisional Application titled ETHERNET EXCHANGE filed on Dec. 10 2009 having application Ser. No. 61 285 371 and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety 2 U.S. Provisional Application titled PRIVATE NETWORK CONNECTIVITY PLATFORM filed on Sep. 4 2009 having application Ser. No. 61 239 997 and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and 3 U.S. Provisional Application titled ETHERNET EXCHANGE filed on Apr. 12 2010 having application Ser. No. 61 323 066 and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and 4 U.S. Application titled PROCESS AND SYSTEM FOR AN INTEGRATED CARRIER ETHERNET EXCHANGE filed on Sep. 2 2010 having application Ser. No. 12 875 048. Each of the above identified applications are incorporated in their entirety by reference herein.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the software engine and its modules as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office Patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

Embodiments of the invention generally relate to network connectivity in a many to many connection environment. More particularly an aspect of an embodiment of the invention relates to an online web portal used by private network service providers.

One of the challenges that many network carriers face is how to make their services available to their customers at competitive costs. The customers may be located anywhere and it can be cost prohibitive for each carrier to install their own end to end wiring to service these customers. Many carriers already have existing high speed networks e.g. fiber in many metropolitan areas. As such it is possible for one carrier to connect to an existing network of another carrier. This type of connection is referred to as Direct Network to Network Interconnection D NNI . Typically the D NNI approach is very complex and time consuming. It takes a lot of time for the two carriers to negotiate an agreement and for their engineering teams to come up with a solution. The process is repeated whenever a connection with another carrier is required making it very inefficient and costly.

For some embodiments a web portal is configured to enable participating carriers to assign roles to representatives and to grant rights and permissions to the representatives based on their roles. Navigation of the web portal and subsequent web pages is personalized to the assigned role and or access privileges assigned to the representative. Options and web pages that a representative having a role not authorized to view are not presented to that representative by the web portal. The web portal is integrated with a switch fabric configured to enable private Ethernet networks of the carriers to be interconnected via virtual circuits established by the switch fabric. The web portal is configured to provide one or more representatives of the carriers to order the virtual circuits to be established and to monitor and troubleshoot issues related to the virtual circuits.

While the invention is subject to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments thereof have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described in detail. The invention should be understood to not be limited to the particular forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the invention.

According to some embodiments a web enabled user experience for commerce and collaboration for networks of two or more carriers connected via their own ports to a switch fabric for a private network exchange is disclosed. A web enabled user interface is provided to enable a plurality of carriers to interact buy and sell network services to one another via the World Wide Web. The web enabled user interface may be configured to enable some carriers to showcase their network services to other carriers. The network services may include lit building information. Request for quote RFQ may be generated. Bids may be submitted. Based on the RFQs and bids two or more carriers may become partners. Based on an indication that a partnership is formed between two partnering carriers based on a request received from at least one of the two partnering carriers and based on user profiles of the two partnering carriers a virtual circuit is established to connect Ethernet networks of the two partnering carriers.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth such as examples of specific data signals named components connections amount of private carriers connected to the switch fabric etc. in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however to one of ordinary skill in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known components or methods have not been described in detail but rather in a block diagram in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention. Further specific numeric references such as first private carrier may be made. However the specific numeric reference should not be interpreted as a literal sequential order but rather interpreted that the first private carrier is different than a second private carrier. Thus the specific details set forth are merely exemplary. The specific details may be varied from and still be contemplated to be within the spirit and scope of the present invention. The term coupled is defined as meaning connected either directly to the component or indirectly to the component through another component.

A standard web enabled user interface is provided to enable many different carriers to interact with one another to view existing network services of their peers to form partnerships and to expand their services to end users using External network to network interconnection E NNI . The web enabled user interface allows the carriers to deliver the services to their end users faster and more cost effectively. The web enabled user interface is referred to herein as a web portal because it may be a website that offers many services to the carriers including for example buy sell order emails register etc. However the terms may be used interchangeably.

For some embodiments a private network exchange is a multiple port switch fabric with one or more Ethernet exchangers for two or more Ethernet carriers integrated with the web portal. The Ethernet exchanger is a system that is designed to address growing demand for Ethernet services by enabling carriers to interconnect and to expand their services globally. The Ethernet exchanger may be part of an overall physical Ethernet switch fabric which may include one or more Ethernet exchangers to support single connections as well as redundant connections.

The Ethernet exchanger is configured to be used by the carriers as a common point for External network to network interconnection E NNI . One implementation of the E NNI may be an Equinix Carrier Ethernet Exchange provided by Equinix Inc. headquartered in Foster City Calif. The Ethernet exchanger streamlines and simplifies the process of partnering the carriers in a transparent and neutral manner. One example application of an Ethernet exchanger is a co location and interconnecting data center where many carriers already have their presence. This allows the participating carriers to have a wide range of interconnectivity options in the same facility. The Ethernet exchanger includes ports for two or more carriers to connect their network wirings. This enables a carrier to have options to create many to many interconnections with only one time hook up to the switch fabric one time creation of a customer account with the switch fabric and one time providing description of its network characteristics using a web portal associated with the switch fabric. The customer account may include the user profile information. The Ethernet exchanger enables the usage of already entered or known information thus simplifying the interconnecting process by avoiding the needs to repeatedly requiring the carriers to enter their information for every connection.

By being connected to the Ethernet exchanger a carrier can purchase services and reach out to many end users in many different geographical areas without incurring the same expenses typically associated with having multiple D NNIs. For example the carrier A can expand its services using the carrier D s Ethernet network. By connecting to the Ethernet exchanger a carrier may be able to generate additional revenue by offering to sell its network services to the other carriers. For example the carrier D can offer the opportunity to use the carrier D s network to the other carriers.

A web portal resident on a server and is integrated with a switch fabric of the Ethernet exchanger and is configured to automate an end to end process of interconnecting private Ethernet networks of two or more carriers. The interconnection is established via one or more virtual circuits established between two or more ports of the switch fabric. The web portal is configured to present web pages and templates to a browser application on a client machine to solicit information from participating carriers. The information is extracted from the web pages and templates and stored in an associated database in order to enable the participating carriers to 1 publish network services and capabilities offered 2 search for network services and capabilities offered by each carrier 3 submit requests for quotes RFQs and responses to the RFQs 4 initiate a provisioning of the virtual circuits between their private Ethernet networks and 5 monitor and troubleshoot the virtual circuits as well as their own private Ethernet networks from the web enabled user interface.

The Ethernet exchanger may be configured to include a configuration module a provisioning module and a monitoring module . These modules may be implemented using software scripted routines hardware logic and any combination of both. The provisioning module may provision virtual circuits. The configuration module may map and translate Ethernet services among the carriers.

The Ethernet exchanger may offer application programming interfaces APIs to exchange information with other applications such as for example the web portal used by the participating carriers. In the following discussions the phrases participating carriers qualified carriers or carriers refer to the carriers who have agreements with a provider of the Ethernet exchange services such as for example Equinix Inc.

The Ethernet exchanger may also be configured to include a monitor module which may be implemented using software scripted routines hardware logic and any combination of both. The monitor module may monitor the status of the virtual circuits and provide status information to the carriers. As mentioned above the communication with the carriers may be via the web portal. Some examples of network management software used by the monitoring module may include operation support systems OSS and simple network management protocol SNMP . OSS and SNMP are network management protocols used to manage communications networks. The monitor module may be configured to use APIs to exchange information with network management software used by the carriers.

The Ethernet exchanger may support multiple E NNIs. Each of the E NNIs is coupled to a port. For example each of the ports and is coupled to each of the E NNI E NNI E NNI and E NNI respectively. In the example illustrated in the Ethernet services of carrier A and carrier C are mapped and translated across virtual circuit . This allows Ethernet traffic to flow between network and network . Likewise the Ethernet services of carrier B and carrier C are mapped and translated across virtual circuit . This allows Ethernet frames to be exchanged between network and network .

The Ethernet exchanger is configured to support point to point connections as well as multipoint connections. In a point to point connection the Ethernet exchanger establishes a virtual circuit that connects networks from two carriers. In a multipoint connection the Ethernet exchanger establishes virtual circuits that connect networks from many carriers. For example the virtual circuit is part of a point to point connection. The virtual circuits and are parts of multipoint connections. The Ethernet exchanger may map and translate Ethernet services between and among the many Ethernet networks connected by the virtual circuits.

For some example embodiments the web portal may be configured to present a questionnaire in the form of templates to solicit information from the carriers. The templates are web based and may be presented as a web page or part of a web page. The templates solicit carrier information and direct that solicited information into fields of the database. The web portal cooperates with the physical switch fabric of the Ethernet exchanger to provide the carriers a standardized interconnecting process. The web portal may be a web site that offers many services to the carriers including for example buy sell order emails register manage accounts etc.

The carriers may use computer systems to access the web portal to communicate with one another and to interact with the underlying Ethernet switch fabric such as for example switch fabric illustrated in . For example the carriers A D may use client computer systems respectively to connect to the web portal via the Internet . The web portal may include a register option to allow a carrier to register and become a participant. For example a carrier or carrier representative user etc. may use button to register and to provide information about its networks and services. The carrier may need to provide the information via a series of one or more templates.

Information provided with the templates may be used for service mapping and provisioning as well as any specific extensible markup language XML API translations for web services consumption. XML APIs are APIs that are coded using XML. The web portal includes codes that are scripted to automate interaction with the underlying switch fabric service mapping and or any logical translation based on XML API and web interface. Each template may be presented by the web portal as a web page or a pop up window. The information solicited from the carriers may include information about their networks such as for example 

For some embodiments the lit building information may be entered directly using the web portal . Alternatively the lit building information may be submitted and processed as a batch operation. This batch processing may make it easier for those carriers that have many lit buildings or those carriers that have lit building information stored in formats that are not easily extracted. For some embodiments the batch processing is performed using an API associated with the web portal .

Many of the fields in the template may correspond to fields of a searchable relational database such as for example database . The templates may be standardized so that they can be used for all carriers. This is advantageous because there is no need to have different set of questions for different carriers as is typically used in the D NNIs. In addition a carrier may only need to provide the information about its network once regardless of how many other networks that the carrier may be interconnected with. Information associated with a carrier may be grouped together as a carrier profile. Each carrier profile may be unique. In addition to storing the carrier profiles the database may also be configured to store other information that may be used by the web portal .

The Ethernet exchanger is configured as a transparent aggregation translator between the private Ethernet networks of the carriers. The templates may include a carrier qualification template to allow a carrier to qualify carrier profile template to allow the carrier to list user account information service template to allow the carrier to describe services offered as well as network capabilities and characteristics etc. Two or more of these templates may be combined depending on the implementation.

The web portal may be configured to present the templates to a user or representative of the carrier on a client machine to allow the user to create a user profile for its carrier and associated Ethernet network. The user profile may include services offered by the carrier. The configuration module of the Ethernet exchanger may be configured to extract and store this information in the database. The information from all of the users is aggregated to provide complete and relevant information in response to a search query generated by other users using the online web portal . The database may be associated with intelligent routines to discover the queried information and present the aggregated information to the user that is relevant to the query of the user. The information may include a list of a carrier s Ethernet buildings by capacity price service level etc. The information may also include lit building list. The templates enable the collection the extraction and the storing of the information into the relational database. The database is configured to store aggregate and makes the aggregated information searchable and publishable.

The web portal provides a medium that allows a carrier to interact showcase and sell its services to other carriers. It allows a carrier to specify information or services that it wants to offer to other carriers and to learn about other carriers services. This enables the carriers to qualify each other as partners and to form relationships with one another. For example a carrier may use the button to describe services that it is willing to offer to potential partners. Similarly a carrier may use button to specify services that it is searching for.

For some embodiments the information about the services being searched for may be presented in the form of a request for quotes RFQ . For example the carrier A may use the web portal to search view and identify services offered by the carrier D. A representative of the carrier A may use the button to generate an RFQ and cause the RFQ to be sent to the carrier D. When a representative of the carrier D is signed on to the web portal an RFQ notification is displayed. For some embodiments the account information or the profile information stored in the relational database may be used to populate fields of the RFQ.

Negotiations between the carrier A and the carrier D may then take place. For some embodiments the carriers may negotiate among themselves and then use the web portal to enter the details of their agreements. When there is an agreement between the carrier A and the carrier D the carrier A may use the button to request the underlying switch fabric and Ethernet exchanger to provision the services. For some embodiments each carrier may use the web portal to configure and assign representatives to different roles see for examples of roles . One representative may be assigned an administrator role and serve as an administrator. The administrator may then assign other representatives from the carrier to other roles such as for example sales engineering product support technical support etc. illustrated as representatives and . Each role may be associated with a different level of access and or a different level of capabilities. For example only a sale representative may review the agreements of that carrier and only a technical support representative may be able to access the network management information.

The Ethernet exchanger is configured to perform interconnection service that aggregates and translates private Ethernet services from the many participating carriers. It provides a many to many Layer 2 Network to Network Interface NNI and standardizes the network to network connection process. The Ethernet exchanger is configured to distribute and support multi regional Ethernet connections among many private networks from a central Ethernet switching fabric. Carrier information from all of the Ethernet networks connected to the Ethernet exchanger is aggregated and stored in the database.

For some embodiments the configuration module as illustrated in is configured to act as an agent to convert protocols bandwidth requirements etc. between the various participating carriers. The Ethernet exchanger is also configured to use APIs to work with a multitude of proprietary systems APIs. The configuration module may include logic and or software routines to do the handshaking mapping and conversion between the different Ethernet protocols independent of the type of Ethernet protocol or network configuration parameters used in either Ethernet network.

For some embodiments the Ethernet exchanger keeps the value of the PDU intact throughout the translation process. When the frame is received the TPID portion of the frame is stripped and a Multiprotocol Label Switching MPLS label is added. This is illustrated as frame . The positions of the MPLS data and the PDU in the frame are then switched as illustrated in frame . The Ethernet exchanger then forward the frame by making switching decisions based on the MPLS label . The frame is then transmitted across a virtual circuit to a destination port where the Ethernet exchanger replaces the MPLS label with the TPID associated with the destination port. As illustrated with frame the TPID value has been translated to 0x88a8 and the VLAN ID has been translated to . The TPID value of 0x88a8 is configured by a carrier associated with a second network. The translated frame is then transmitted from the Ethernet exchanger to the second network as frame .

It may be noted that the frame portion of the frame is similar to the frame portion of the frame . However the frame portion of the frame is translated into the frame portion of the frame . This reflects the translation of the QoS between the two networks. For some example embodiments each carrier is required to enter QoS information about their networks using the web portal. When two carriers enter into an agreement each of the carriers may need to use the web portal to indicate to the Ethernet exchanger which of the QoS to use.

At the web portal level the carriers may be able to access the monitor option and the trouble shooting option to interact with the Ethernet OAM module and the ticketing module . The carriers may also be able to receive monitoring and troubleshooting reports . The monitor option may be used by members of the carrier s network operation center NOC to submit tickets test status view link statistics etc. For some embodiments APIs may be available to allow the carriers applications to view monitoring and troubleshooting information and to perform other related network management operations. It may be noted that the APIs described herein may enable a standard method of communicating and exchanging information of the carriers and information stored in the database associated with the web portal and the switch fabric.

For some embodiments a carrier may be able to perform network testing that encompass its network as well as the virtual circuits that the carrier is associated with. For some embodiments the Ethernet exchanger may prevent a carrier s test from reaching beyond the virtual circuit and into another carrier s network. However when an authorization is provided the Ethernet exchanger is configured to provide monitoring troubleshooting and ticketing information as related to both the virtual circuit provisioned between the first Ethernet network and the second Ethernet network as well as the first Ethernet network and the second Ethernet network themselves.

For some embodiments the Ethernet exchanger is configured to allow testing to identify issues are relating to loss of connectivity performance etc. The loss of connectivity issues may be identified when there is no communication from one end of a virtual circuit to another end of the virtual circuit. The issue may be caused by configuration errors or it may be caused by physical failures. Ping test of the virtual circuit end points or intermediate points may be performed isolate the cause of the issue. The performance issues may be related to loss of frames slow or delay delivery of frames delay variance or jitter or service throughput. Other issues may be related to queuing drops of frames etc.

The marketplace allows the discovery and sale of network services among the carriers within the secure collocation facility. This enables the carriers to n to seamlessly extend their global reach and depth. The market for the many to many E NNIs is driven by the needs of carriers to extend their Ethernet services beyond the physical footprint or capabilities of their asset or infrastructure. The marketplace is designed to bring carriers together and interconnect their networks regardless of the platforms e.g. Ethernet MPLS SASS etc . Using the marketplace the carriers can search and review services offered by other carriers selectively identify services that meet their requirements and negotiate purchases with the desired carriers. illustrates an overall example diagram of a representation of a marketplace that includes a web portal and an External Network to Network Interface E NNI in accordance with some example embodiments. The example illustrates the integration of the web portal and its functionalities the ENNI infrastructure and its functionalities the roles of the representatives of the carriers and type of data generated based on the interactions between the representatives of the carriers and the portal infrastructure as well as the ENNI infrastructure along with other relevant information.

At block the services that the carriers want to showcase to other carriers may become accessible in a marketplace. The marketplace may also provide mechanism to enable the carriers who have network requirements to post them. As mentioned above for some embodiments this posting of the requirements may be in the form of an RFQ and the RFQ may be sent to the appropriate carriers who offer network services that match with the requirements. The marketplace also provides each carrier to have a storefront so that their network services can be displayed searched viewed and ordered by other carriers.

Based on the carriers becoming partners they may generate requests to have the connections established as shown in block . At block the Ethernet exchanger provisions the virtual circuits to connect the networks of the requesting carriers. At block the virtual circuits are monitored for potential issues and appropriate status information is provided to the carriers.

At block another request is received to establish a virtual circuit between the first carrier and a third carrier. At block information about the first carrier and the third carrier is retrieved from the database. It is noted that there is no need for the first carrier to provide the same information again for this request. The same information stored in the database for the first carrier is reused. The information about the third carrier was also provided when it became a participant. At block a second virtual circuit is provisioned.

At block a request to establish a virtual circuit between the first and the second carriers is received. At block the provisioning and configuration of the virtual circuit is performed based on the information stored for the first and the second carriers and based on any additional information provided with the request.

A set of instructions for causing the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein may be executed. In alternative embodiments the machine operates as a standalone device or may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the machine may operate in the capacity of a server or a client machine in server client network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. The machine may be a server computer a client computer a personal computer PC a tablet PC a set top box STB a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a cellular telephone a web appliance a network router switch or bridge or any machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. Further while a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.

In the current example computer system may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. liquid crystals display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also may constitute machine readable media.

The instructions may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device . Applications that may include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. Some embodiments implement functions in two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Thus the example system is applicable to software firmware and hardware implementations.

In example embodiments a computer system e.g. a standalone client or server computer system configured by an application may constitute a module that is configured and operates to perform certain operations as described herein below. In other embodiments the module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. within a special purpose processor to perform certain operations. A module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a module mechanically in the dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations. Accordingly the term module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner and or to perform certain operations described herein.

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present description. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic media and carrier wave signals.

As noted the software may be transmitted over a network using a transmission medium. The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for transmission to and execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signal or other intangible medium to facilitate transmission and communication of such software.

The diagram in includes application layer roles layer functions layer data layer and back office and network layer . The back office and network layer includes portal infrastructure and logic that performs operations relating to the web portal. These operations may include presenting the templates and soliciting information from the carriers extracting the information from the templates storing the extracted information into the database etc. It may be noted that the templates may solicit information from the participating carriers by different mechanisms including for example manual entry selection of possible entries presented in a pull down type menu selection of existing information and auto populating fields of the templates. Other operations may be related to performance security availability analytics CMS IDM user experience and localization. The portal infrastructure may include logic for enterprise application integration.

The back office and network layer also includes E NNI infrastructure and logic that performs operations relating to the switch fabric and the Ethernet exchanger. These operations may include provisioning virtual circuits to interconnect private Ethernet networks of the carriers translating the Ethernet frames mapping QoS monitoring and troubleshooting network issues using NMS and OSS generating support tickets servicing APIs etc. The E NNI infrastructure may include logic for switch fabric integration. The operations associated with the portal infrastructure and the E NNI infrastructure may be implemented in software hardware or a combination of both.

The roles layer illustrates different representative s roles that may interact with the web portal. For some embodiments each carrier may assign a representative to serve as an administrator. The administrator will need to be registered with the web portal. The administrator may have all the necessary rights and permissions to perform operations in the web portal on behalf of the carrier. The administrator may invite other members of the carrier to join as the carrier s representatives. This feature provides the carrier complete control over roles that each carrier s representatives may be assigned. This may be referred to as self service administration. Using this approach the administrator only need to send out the invitation to the prospective representatives. The administrator does not have to deal with their credentials like setting up user ID and passwords etc. It is up to the new representatives to create their own profiles credentials passwords security questions and so on. None of that information is ever passed to the administrator which is a huge convenience for setting up new representatives. The risk of passwords and credentials being exposed to others is minimized. It may be noted that the invitation of the prospective representatives and the setting up of their profiles and credential information do not rely on any interaction with the service provider of the web portal. For some embodiments functions of the administrator may optionally be performed by the service provider of the web portal. One example of a service provider of the web portal is Equinix Inc. headquartered in Foster City Calif.

The administrator feature is very convenient because the carriers can decide which roles and responsibilities they want to give to their group of representatives. The carriers can restrict representatives based on their roles and limit them to only duties that the carriers want them to perform. For example only an administrator can submit a service request for a virtual circuit or a change request for virtual circuit. As another example a representative in the sales role cannot have access to the monitoring and troubleshooting information. For some embodiments the administrator can invite employees of the same carrier as well as non employees to become representatives of the carrier. For example the non employees may be third party contractors who act on the carrier s behalf and under some type of agreement with the carrier. In addition to inviting new representatives the administrator may also perform other administrative operations including for example create terminate users modify users assign roles rights and permissions reset password etc.

For some embodiments when a new representative registers with the web portal and create necessary credentials that new representative may initially have no permission rights to perform any operations until authorization is given by the administrator. For example the administrator may review the profile of the new representative and grant the new representative certain access rights. This may be in the form of check boxes. The access rights are then appended to the profile of the new representative and that becomes the new representative personalized experience on the web portal. For some embodiments the web pages that are presented to a representative are personalized for that representative based on the granted access rights. This allows each representative to have a unique and personalized experience when interacting with the web portal. The representatives in the different roles may still enjoy personalized experience with the web portal even though they may not be performing the same operations.

In the diagram of the roles layer illustrates the following roles administrator product manager sales as related to lit buildings carrier management bid team sales as related to quotes procurement provisioning engineering and NOC. A representative in the product manager role is allowed to complete qualification form view information of other participants view other participants qualification restrict qualification view etc. For example a product manager for a carrier may not want representatives of a competing carrier to view the qualification information of the carrier that the product manager works for. A representative in the sales lit building role is allowed to update the lit building list LBL update the LBL view the LBL online export the LBL restrict access to the LBL etc. A representative in the carrier management role and or in the bid team role is allowed to submit RFQ view open RFQ notify open RFQ export RFQ etc. A representative in the sales quote role is allowed to submit quote save in process quote queue quote export quote notify quote etc. A representative in the procurement role is allowed to order cross connect order virtual cross connect view open orders notify order confirmation view order history etc. A representative in the provisioning role is allowed to notify view queue and approve pending order auto provision approved orders notify activation verification etc. A representative in the engineering role and or NOC role is allowed to view NOC contacts view escalation process remedy integration view service link stats view monitoring history etc.

The application layer includes web services that are extended to the carriers via APIs to enable the carriers applications to communicate directly with the web portal. The APIs may tell the carriers how to send the information and how the information is received by the web portal. The API may include information that enables the carriers application to do the handshaking mapping and conversion between the different protocols and applications over to the standard used by the switch fabric. This may be convenient for the carriers that want to transmit a lot of information and would prefer for example batch processing over bulk processing. One example is an API that allows the carriers to push the lit building list LBL . An LBL contains the buildings that are wired for Ethernet services and the characteristics of those Ethernet services. The carriers may use tools and various applications to maintain an LBL. The carrier may work with and maintain this list on their systems. However the LBL API allows the lit building list information in the carriers database to be pushed across the API and replicated onto the switch fabric s database without any manual data entry. The API is coded to receive the data in the proprietary format and convert the information into the standard format used in the switch fabric s database and is also coded to automatically facilitate pushing of data from the carriers database onto the switch fabric s database without any manual data entry.

Another example is an API that allows the carriers to push the carriers pricing information. The quoting and pricing API enables the carriers to use their proprietary tools and various applications to generate maintain and track quoting and pricing information while that same data is replicated over the API into the ENNI s database. Yet another example is an API that allows pulling pushing troubleshooting and ticketing information from the web portal and the switch fabric. One example of a ticketing system used by the switch fabric is the Remedy system by BMC Software Inc of Houston Tex. Remedy is a customer relationship tool which can be used to log monitor the issues or problems faced by the carriers by the means of incident management tickets. Each ticket represents an issue assigned to a support team to resolve.

The function layers include functions that correspond to the operations performed by each of the roles in the roles layer . These functions include administration qualification list RFQ quote purchase receive inventory and provision and monitor and troubleshoot. The data layer includes data that may be generated by the functions of the functions layer . The data may include user roles rights and permission participant listings and qualification records LBL open RFQs and directed RFQs bids and quotes orders confirmation activations and reports. It may be noted that by allowing the carriers to provide their LBL the process of identifying a lit building becomes much faster and easier. The LBL of all the participating carriers can be stored in a searchable and relational database so that they can be discovered by for example street address metropolitan areas cities zip codes or other similar general geographical identifying conveyed information. Being able to discover the LBL and being to place an order via a web portal that is integrated with a switch fabric enable the carriers to be able to connect and take advantage of the services of other carriers almost immediately.

For some embodiments a the Ethernet switch platform may include a billing support system BSS to enable ordering billing keeping track of carriers and managing carrier relationship. For some other embodiments the Ethernet switch platform may include a service bureau system to enable the carriers to use the web portal to negotiate and enter into agreements for network services. For example the carriers can use the web portal to publish and search for network services to negotiate and become partners to place provisioning orders and to monitor and diagnose network issues and to pay for services received.

Referring to the screen Partners option may allow viewing of participating carriers information. This may include a company profile qualification information LBL information etc. Buy option may allow the representatives to submit RFQs view open RFQs export RFQs etc. Sell option may allow the representatives to update LBL submit quotes etc. Order option may allow the representatives to request for provisioning of virtual circuits. Monitor option may allow the representatives to receive status and diagnostic information from the integrated switch fabric. Profile option may allow the representatives to review and update their profiles. User management option may allow the administrator representatives to perform operations as described above with . It may be noted that depending on the role of a representative from a carrier some of the options described may not be visible. For example when a representative assigned with the NOC role signing on to the web portal that representative may not see the order option . Being able to view the order option is the experience that may be reserved for the representatives who are assigned the procurement or provisioning roles.

For some embodiments the web portal may include a screen that provides a search option to allow the representatives to search for information related to the lit buildings. For example the screen includes a search box that includes an input area to specify an address and an input area to specify a name of a metropolitan area or a city. Optionally the search box may include input areas to allow entry of a zip code or other similar general geographical identifying conveyed information to enable searching for the list buildings based on these search parameters. For example instead of using a street address the input area may be used for a zip code. After an address and or a name of a metropolitan area or city are specified button may be used to initiate the search of the database. The screen may also include a side bar or queue area to display other related information such as for example the number of new partners the number of new bids the number of new RFQs and the number of new service updates. The position of the side bar area and the type of information displayed in the side bar are illustrated as an example and may vary depending on the implementation of the screen .

Some portions of the detailed descriptions above are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like. These algorithms may be written in a number of different software programming languages such as C C or other similar languages. Also an algorithm may be implemented with lines of code in software configured logic gates in software or a combination of both. In an embodiment the logic consists of electronic circuits that follow the rules of Boolean Logic software that contain patterns of instructions or any combination of both.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the above discussions it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The illustrations of embodiments described herein are intended to provide a general understanding of the structure of various embodiments and they are not intended to serve as a complete description of all the elements and features of apparatus and systems that might make use of the structures described herein. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reviewing the above description. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived there from such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure.

Thus what has been described is a web enabled user experience for commerce and collaboration in private network exchanges. A web enabled user interface is integrated with a switch fabric and configured to automate an end to end process of interconnecting private Ethernet networks of carriers via one or more virtual circuits established by one or more Ethernet exchangers of the switch fabric. The Ethernet exchanger has a plurality of ports to enable connecting the private Ethernet networks of the carriers. The web enabled user interface is configured to present web pages and templates to solicit information from the carriers to enable the carriers to submit requests for quotes RFQs and responses to the RFQs to provision the virtual circuits between the private Ethernet networks and to monitor and troubleshoot the virtual circuits. Each of the carriers is to assign a representative as an administrator having administrator role. The administrator is authorized to assign other roles to a group of representatives and to grant rights and permissions to these representatives. Navigation of the web enabled user interface by a representative in the group is personalized to one or more of the assigned role and the access privileges granted to that representative.

It may be appreciated that are merely representational and may not be drawn to scale. Certain proportions thereof may be exaggerated while others may be minimized. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

