---

title: Mesoporous metal nitride materials and methods
abstract: A plurality of mesoporous metal nitride materials may be formed by a method that includes treating with ammonia (or a related bonded nitrogen and hydrogen containing reducing material) a mixed metal oxide material that comprises at least one first metal that forms an unstable product with ammonia and at least one second metal that forms a stable product with ammonia to form the metal nitride materials that include the second metal but not the first metal. The method contemplates forming metal nitride materials, as well as metal oxynitride materials. A related method that uses a non-bonded nitrogen and hydrogen containing reducing material may yield a mesoporous metal oxide. In particular the at least one metal that forms an unstable product with ammonia comprises zinc metal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09359204&OS=09359204&RS=09359204
owner: CORNELL UNIVERSITY
number: 09359204
owner_city: Ithaca
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121023
---
This application is related to and derives priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 550 566 filed 24 Oct. 2011 and titled Mesoporous Metal Nitride Materials and Methods the content of which is incorporated herein fully by reference.

The research that lead to the embodiments as described herein and the invention as claimed herein was funded by the National Science Foundation under grant number DMR 0602526. The United States Government has rights in the invention as claimed herein.

Embodiments relate generally to metal nitride materials. More particularly embodiments relate to mesoporous metal nitride materials.

Metal nitrides and metal oxynitrides i.e. collectively referred to as metal nitride materials often display a wide variety of interesting and useful chemical and physical properties. The preparation of metal nitride materials is more challenging than that of pure metal oxides i.e. other than metal nitrides and metal oxynitrides since the latter can be prepared in air while the former often requires the rigorous exclusion of oxygen and water from a synthesis process. In light of their interesting and useful chemical and physical properties desirable are additional metal nitride materials and additional methods for preparing the additional metal nitride materials.

Embodiments provide a plurality of mesoporous metal nitride materials and a method for preparing the plurality of mesoporous metal nitride materials. The mesoporous metal nitride materials and related method in accordance with the embodiments may be used to prepare mesoporous metal nitrides as well as mesoporous metal oxynitrides. Within the context of the embodiments mesoporous materials and in particular mesoporous metal nitride materials are generally understood to have a pore size from about 2 to about 100 nanometers.

Basically the method for preparing the plurality of mesoporous metal nitride materials in accordance with the embodiments includes a thermal ammonolysis or a related bonded nitrogen and hydrogen containing reducing material treatment method that treats with ammonia or a related bonded nitrogen and hydrogen containing reducing material a mixed metal oxide material that includes at least one first metal that forms an unstable i.e. generally and more specifically volatile reaction product with ammonia and at least one second metal that forms a stable i.e. generally and more specifically non volatile reaction product with ammonia to provide the metal nitride material that includes the stable reaction product i.e. that includes the at least one second metal but not the unstable reaction product i.e. that includes the at least one first metal .

As a result of investigations directed towards reactions related to the foregoing ammonolysis reactions the embodiments also provide a method for preparing a metal oxide material with a specific and desirable porosity. This particular method is realized by using a non bonded nitrogen and hydrogen containing reducing material such as but not limited to forming gas rather than a bonded nitrogen and hydrogen containing reducing material such as but not limited to ammonia when treating a mixed metal oxide material that includes the at least one first metal that forms the unstable reaction product with ammonia and the at least one second metal that forms the stable reaction product with ammonia.

Within the context of the embodiments and of the claims a bonded nitrogen and hydrogen containing reducing material is intended as including nitrogen and hydrogen with a nitrogen to hydrogen bond such as but not limited to ammonia hydrazine urea methylamine and other amine materials as indicated below. Within the context of the embodiments and of the claims a non bonded nitrogen and hydrogen containing reducing material is intended as including nitrogen and hydrogen absent a nitrogen to hydrogen bond such as but not limited to forming gas.

A particular metal nitride material in accordance with the embodiments includes a metal nitride material having a pore size from about 10 to about 50 nanometers.

A particular method for preparing a metal nitride material in accordance with the embodiments includes treating with a bonded nitrogen and hydrogen containing reducing material a mixed metal oxide material including at least one first metal susceptible to forming an unstable reaction product with the bonded nitrogen and hydrogen containing reducing material and at least one second metal susceptible to forming a stable reaction product with the bonded nitrogen and hydrogen containing reducing material to provide a mesoporous metal nitride material that includes the at least one second metal and excludes the at least one first metal.

Another particular method for preparing a metal nitride material in accordance with the embodiments includes treating with ammonia a mixed metal oxide material including a first metal selected from the group consisting of Zn an alkali metal Cd Hg and Pb susceptible to forming a volatile reaction product with ammonia and at least one second metal selected from the group consisting of Ti V Nb Ta Cr W Mo Al Ge and Ga susceptible to forming a stable reaction product with ammonia to provide a mesoporous metal nitride material that includes the at least one second metal and excludes the at least one first metal.

A particular method for preparing a metal oxide material in accordance with the embodiments includes treating with a non bonded nitrogen and hydrogen containing reducing material a mixed metal oxide material including at least one first metal susceptible to forming an unstable reaction product with the non bonded nitrogen and hydrogen containing reducing material and at least one second metal that is susceptible to reduction with respect to the non bonded nitrogen and hydrogen containing reducing material to provide a mesoporous metal oxide material that excludes the at least one first metal and includes the at least one second metal.

Embodiments provide a synthetic route for preparing mesoporous metal nitride materials by the ammonolysis of bulk multication metal oxide precursor materials ZnMO hereafter referred to as ZMO . At temperatures above 500 C. Zn sublimes out of the product and three O anions are replaced by two N anions thus generating metal nitride materials i.e. metal nitrides or metal oxynitrides containing mesopores. In many cases additional nitrogen is lost due to auto reduction of the metal. This method may also be extended to using metals other than Zn. If M in compounds M MOcan form volatile species as elemental metals or amides then a nanoporous MNproduct may form at modest temperatures.

Embodiments also provide a method for preparing mesoporous metal oxide materials through a related synthetic route that uses a non bonded nitrogen and hydrogen containing reducing material such as but not limited to forming gas in comparison with the bonded nitrogen and hydrogen containing reducing material such as but not limited to ammonia.

In accordance with the above the embodiments utilize as a starting material a mixed metal oxide material i.e. a multication metal oxide material comprising at least one first metal that yields an unstable reaction product with a bonded nitrogen and hydrogen containing reducing material i.e. such as but not limited to ammonia and at least one second metal that yields a stable reaction product with the bonded nitrogen and hydrogen containing reducing material i.e. such as but not limited to ammonia . Within the context of the embodiments preferably the at least one first metal includes Zn although other possible candidates for a first metal are not excluded. Such other possible candidates for the first metal may include but are not necessarily limited to alkali metals i.e. Li Na K Rb Cs and Fr Cd Hg and Pb. In addition the at least one second metal that yields the stable reaction product with the bonded nitrogen and hydrogen containing reducing material may be selected from the group including but not limited to Ti V Nb Ta Cr W Mo although additional second metals such as but not limited to Al Ga and Ge may also be considered. Finally although the embodiments are most specifically illustrated within the context of a bonded nitrogen and hydrogen containing reducing material that comprises or consists of ammonia the embodiments also contemplate alternative bonded nitrogen and hydrogen containing reducing materials such as but not limited to hydrazine urea methylamine and other amines.

Within the context of the embodiments a particular nitrogen substitution reaction with respect to a mixed metal oxide is undertaken at a temperature at least about 400 C. and more preferably from about 500 to about 1000 C. to provide at least partial nitrogen substitution for oxygen and thus form at least an oxynitride or possibly a nitride that might contain perhaps 20 or less oxygen impurities from the mixed metal oxide starting material. At further elevated temperatures and or elongated reaction times nitride formation is favored over oxynitride formation. When utilizing ammonia as the bonded nitrogen and hydrogen containing reducing material the embodiments contemplate a flow rate of ammonia within a reactor chamber from about 10 to about 1000 cc min and a reaction chamber pressure from about 1 to about 10 000 ton.

The foregoing reaction conditions will typically provide from a mixed metal oxide starting material a resulting metal nitride material having a pore size from about 2 to about 50 nanometers within the context of a grain size from about 0.1 to about 200 microns.

With respect to forming mesoporous metal oxides while using a non bonded nitrogen and hydrogen containing reducing material such as but not limited to forming gas the same reaction temperatures and elongated reaction times may also be employed to form a mesoporous structure incident to loss of the at least one first metal but absent substitution of nitrogen for oxygen within a resulting mesoporous metal oxide.

ZMO precursors were prepared by a solid state reaction of a stoichiometric mixture of binary powders of ZnO and the appropriate metal oxide powder at temperatures between 800 to 1400 C. These ZMO oxides 0.2 to 0.3 g were first placed in an alumina boat. The boat was then placed in a silica tube with air tight stainless steel end caps that had welded valves and connections to input and output gas lines. All gases were purified to remove trace amounts of oxygen or water using copper nickel palladium and platinum on zeolite supports. The silica tube was then placed in a split tube furnace and the appropriate connections to gas sources made. Argon gas was passed over the sample for 15 min to expel air before establishing a flow of ammonia gas Anhydrous Air Gas . The sample was heated to the above reaction temperatures at 150 C. hr. After treatment for the specified period the furnace power was turned off and the product cooled to room temperature in 4 hr under an ammonia flow. Before the silica tube was taken out of the split tube furnace argon gas was flowed through the silica tube to expel the ammonia gas. The silica tube was left for 24 hr with one valve open in order to expose the ammonolysis product to air slowly. This latter procedure resulted in the formation of only a very thin oxide on the nitride surface.

Finely ground powders were examined with a Rigaku Ultima VI powder X ray diffractometer PXRD with CuK radiation K 1.5406 and K 1.5444 . Crystal structures of the oxides and resultant nitrides were confirmed by PXRD profiles using the GSAS package. Scanning electron microscopy SEM and energy dispersive X ray analysis EDX were performed with a LEO 1550 field emission SEM FSEM . In situ particle cutting was conducted by using an FEI scanning transmission electron microscopes STEM with a dual beam focused ion beam FIB .

Nitrogen adsorption desorption isotherms were measured at 196 C. using a Micromeritics ASAP 2020 system. The samples were degassed at 200 C. for 10 hr on a vacuum line.

Elemental analyses of nitrogen and oxygen content of nitride samples were determined with a LECO TC 600 analyzer using the inert gas fusion method. Nitrogen was detected as Nby thermal conductivity and oxygen as COby infrared detection. The apparatus was calibrated using Leco standard oxides and SiNO and TaN as nitrogen standards.

The nitride crystalline domain size can be estimated from a Rietveld fit of the broadened Lorentzian X ray line shape in GSAS according to 

where P is the domain size in nm. K is the Scherrer constant 0.9 in this case. Lx was calculated from the Lorentzian function in GSAS.

The embodiments included ZMO precursors in which M Ti V Nb Ta Cr W Mo and where all readily form metal oxy nitrides by ammonolysis. The phase purity of the ternary oxide precursors was confirmed 97 by powder X ray diffraction PXRD . These precursor oxides were prepared at high enough temperatures to produce large grain sizes mostly in the 1 to 20 m range. Ammonolysis of these oxides was carried out for a range of temperatures between 500 to 1000 C. and times of 8 to 30 hr at an ammonia flow rate of 200 cmminthrough a 1 inch diameter silica flow tube. Typically a few hundred milligrams of oxide were used in each ammonolysis reaction.

Above 500 C. and with increasing time or temperature one may generally observe the formation of metal oxy nitrides MNO where a b 1 that generally adopt the rocksalt structure. The refined cell parameters determined by PXRD are summarized in Table 1.

Under the reaction conditions employed here the N content a in the product is substantially larger than the residual oxygen content b . The products obtained when M Ta or Mo are exceptions to the above. If the reaction temperature 

According to the SEM images the size of both the pores and crystalline features are 30 50 nm. The PXRD refinement of the 8 hr product shows 30 CrN was formed and that the average nitride crystalline domain size is 48 nm the remaining material is unreacted ZnCrO. As suggested by the SEM images only the surface of the oxide grains is covered by the mesoporous CrN. With further ammonolysis at 800 C. the mole fraction of CrN increased to 90 in the 24 hr sample and the CrN domain size increased to 64 nm. At 1000 C. for 8 hr the product is single phase CrN that has coarsened to form larger pores and much larger CrN grains with a calculated domain size of 113 nm.

The above SEM images show that in some cases the pores and particles both have rounded surfaces see for example or the pores particles show some faceting with preferred orientation see for example . Both types of pores have been observed in other systems. For example rounded pores are found in dealloyed Ag Au while striking aligned faceting was found in single crystal MnO films produced by reduction of ZnMnOin forming gas. The shape of the pores is expected to be a function of the surface diffusion rates and the difference of those rates on different facets of the product crystalline structure.

In order to compare the difference between reduction products and ammonolysis products one may explore the reaction of related ZMOs with forming gas i.e. 5 to 10 percent hydrogen gas in nitrogen gas . All samples were heated for 8 hr at different temperatures at a forming gas flow rate of 200 cmmin. The PXRD indicates the reduction products of ZMOs heated at different temperature were reduced metal oxides. No nitride is formed under these conditions since the kinetics of Nbond breaking at these reaction temperatures are very slow. Again Zn sublimes out of the precursors as summarized in Table 2.

Ammonolysis product of ZnTiOat 800 C. for 8 hr was selected for a detailed study of the mesoporous features. A single product particle 8 m across was cut using a Focused Ion Beam FIB . After cutting the particle was tilted for 45 deg as shown in . Mesoporous features with similar morphology and length scale are visible in the section images penetrating across the entire particle.

To show that this bulk ammonolysis product is also fully mesoporous one may carry out NBET measurements at 77K for this TiN sample see . The BET surface area of this 262 mg sample was 25.4 0.1 m g. There is some microporosity pore diameter 2 nm that accounts for 5.6 m g and a micropore volume of 2.5 10cm g. To put these numbers in perspective one may compare the measured mesoporous area 20 m g to that of uniformly divided cubes of TiN using the bulk density of 5.4 g cm. A surface area of 20 m g would be produced by TiN cubes with 50 nm edges. This is the appropriate length scale seen in thetures. Clearly the mesoporosity obtained is a feature of the bulk material and not just a surface phenomenon.

Selected single phase MNs were checked by chemical analysis to determine the O N ratio. Chem analysis of the ZnTiOderived product at 800 C. resulted in O 3.93 wt and N 19.66 wt which gives an average composition of TiNO. Within experimental error the cation to anion ratio is 1.00 0.02. Since these samples were exposed to air and surface hydrolysis is expected to lead to a thin layer of surface oxide formation the oxygen content in the interior of the nitride grains is expected to be lower than that found by analysis. Other ammonolysis products of ZMOs M V Cr or Nb show 

Bulk transition metal nitrides are almost all good electrical conductors exceptions include the semiconductors TaNand CuN. A few reported values for rock salt nitrides are 1.28 10S cm TiN 1.23 10S cm VN 0.59 10S cm TaN while a lower conductivity is found for WN 3 10S cm . A simple apparatus that allows the four point probe measurement of conductivity of compressed powders as a function of applied pressure was used to estimate the conductivity of the compacted mesoporous powders. As expected the conductivity increased as a function of pressure. At a relatively low pressure of 35 bars one may obtain conductivities of 76 S cm VN 464 S cm TiN and 1.8 S cm WN . These are about two orders of magnitude lower than for the respective bulk materials presumably due to both the porosity and weak particle particle contacts at low pressure.

At relatively low temperatures under flowing ammonia mesoporous structures of MONbegin to form on the surface of the reactant oxides as shown in . At higher temperature 1000 C. for the case of ZnCrO the product crystallites grow in size as determined by PXRD and the pores consolidate to become fewer and larger as shown in . As expected similar behavior is observed in the case of ammonolysis of ZnVOor ZnTiOin and respectively.

Several factors are expected to control the mesoporous morphology of the products obtained the first is the temperature at which the rate of reaction is sufficiently fast to remove all of the Zn and most of the O from the large grained reactant oxides the second is the bulk and surface diffusion rates of the cations and anions in any intermediates and products at the reaction temperature. As the reaction temperature increases the pores coarsen and the grain sizes grow. Eventually with increasing temperature and time the pores are completely eliminated. This description is consistent with that proposed for the synthesis of mesoporous elemental metals obtained by de alloying.

High reaction temperatures and long reaction times increase the length scale of the nanoporous features of the product MN. For instance ammonolysis of ZnVOat 600 C. produced smaller nano crystallites with a more open nanoporous structure than did the ammonolysis product of ZnVOobtained at 800 C. . The calculated crystalline domain sizes of these two products were 29 and 42 nm respectively.

Not surprisingly ammonolyses of ZnTaNbOor ZnTiNbOproduce nitride products that contain two transition metals. Mesoporous Ta Nb Nand TiNb N are observed from ammonolysis at 700 900 C. as show by SEM in . The PXRD refinement of the ammonolysis product obtained from ZnTaNbOwas found to form a secondary rocksalt phase of TaN 

In this work presented is a new processing method that results in metal oxy nitride nano structured materials. The proposed mechanism is a balance between loosing internal volume by evaporation of Zn and replacement of O by fewer N on the one hand and sintering on the other hand. The sintering rate is slow enough that the porosity is not eliminated during the short heating period since the diffusion rates in nitrides are so low. These results show that the porosity and the length scale of the nanoporous features of these materials are controlled by the identity of the transition metal the Zn to M ratio and the processing temperature and time.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties to the same extent as if each reference was individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the invention especially in the context of the following claims is to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. The term connected is to be construed as partly or wholly contained within attached to or joined together even if there is something intervening.

The use of the terminology about substantially and substantially about is intended to include an uncertainty of up to 10 unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context.

The recitation of ranges of values herein is merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it was individually recited herein.

All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate embodiments of the invention and does not impose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed.

No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made to the present invention without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

There is no intention to limit the invention to the specific form or forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications alternative constructions and equivalents falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims. Thus it is intended that the present invention cover the modifications and variations of this invention provided they come within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.

