---

title: Determining states and modifying environments according to states
abstract: Methods and systems for determining states of environments and modifying the environments according to the states are disclosed. In one aspect, the method includes a robot device determining for an environment a state comprising a plurality of state attributes for the environment. The method further includes receiving a request for the state and, in response to receiving the request, modifying the environment to comprise at least some of state attributes. The robot device may determine the state by receiving indications of at least some of the state attributes from some or all of a user, a server, another robot device, and another device. The attributes may be user attributes for a particular user, or may be event attributes for a particular type of event. The request may take the form of a request from a user, a calendar event, or a user arrival.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08982217&OS=08982217&RS=08982217
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08982217
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120813
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 592 673 filed Jan. 31 2012 the entirety of which is herein incorporated by reference.

For a particular event it may be desirable to arrange an environment in a particular state. For example for a meeting it may be desirable to turn on the lights and provide chairs for the meeting attendees. As another example for a dinner party it may be desirable to turn on music and set the table. Other examples are possible as well.

Further particular people may have preferences for an environment. For example a particular person may prefer a particular temperature. As another example a particular person may prefer a particular type or amount of lighting.

Disclosed herein are cloud based systems and methods for determining states of environments and modifying the environments according to the states. The disclosed cloud based system may include a robot device that is configured to determine a state for an environment. The robot device may determine the state through observation or in conjunction with input from a user input from a server input from another robot device and or input from another device. When desired the robot device may modify the environment to create or recreate the determined state.

In one aspect a method is disclosed. The method includes a robot device capturing an image of an arrangement of an environment and based on the image determining at least a portion of a state describing the arrangement using a plurality of state attributes. The method further include receiving a request for the state and in response to receiving the request the robot device causing the environment to be modified based on at least one of the state attributes to thereby recreate the arrangement.

In another aspect a nontransitory computer readable medium is disclosed having stored therein instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to perform the functions of the method described above.

In yet another aspect a device is disclosed. The device includes at least one processor and data storage comprising instructions executable by the at least one processor to capture an image of an arrangement of an environment and based on the image determine at least a portion of a state describing the arrangement using a plurality of state attributes. The instructions are further executable by the processor to receive a request for the state and in response to receiving the request cause the environment to be modified based on at least one of the state attributes to thereby recreate the arrangement.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the figures and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying figures which form a part hereof. In the figures similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description figures and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the figures can be arranged substituted combined separated and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.

This disclosure may disclose inter alia cloud based systems and methods for determining states of environments and modifying the environments according to the states.

States may refer to particular arrangements of environments. For example a meeting state may refer to an arrangement of an environment for a meeting. As another example a John Smith state may refer to an arrangement of an environment for a particular person John Smith. As still another example a weekend state may refer to an arrangement of an environment during a weekend. Other examples are possible as well.

The term environment may broadly refer to an aggregate of surrounding things conditions or influences. For instance an environment may refer to any number of physical and or non physical aspects such as an arrangement of physical objects time date temperature presence of one or more users sound lighting conditions etc. Other aspects are also contemplated. The environment may include living and or non living things and may also refer to a specific or general area.

Each state may describe an arrangement of an environment using a number of state attributes. State attributes may refer to any attribute of an environment. For example the state attributes of the meeting state may include for example a number of chairs a configuration of chairs a level of lighting and an inventory of objects needed for the meeting such as a projector and a laser pointer. As another example the state attributes of the John Smith state may include for example a temperature a type of music and a type of beverage preferred by John Smith. As still another example the state attributes of the weekend state may include for example lights being powered off and an alarm system being powered on. Other examples are possible as well.

Each state may include various types of state attributes. Some state attributes may be user attributes for a particular user such as a room temperature preferred by the particular user. Other state attributes may be event attributes for a particular type of event such as an inventory of objects desired for the particular type of event. Still other state attributes may be temporal attributes for a particular time period such as a level of lighting for the particular time period. Other types of attributes are possible as well. Any type of state attributes may be combined to determine a state. For example a dinner party state may include a number of event attributes for a dinner party as well as a number of user attributes for guests at the dinner party. Other examples are possible as well.

States and state attributes may be determined at a server and a number of client devices including a number of robot devices. The server and the client devices may share with one another data corresponding to states and state attributes for a number of environments. Further some client devices such as the robot devices may be configured to modify environments according to the states.

Referring now to the figures is an example a system for monitoring environmental conditions in an environment. As shown in the system includes a cloud server . The cloud server is coupled to a first robot client via a communication link . Further the cloud server is coupled to a second robot client via a communication link . Still further the cloud server is coupled to a mobile client via a communication link . Each of the first robot client the second robot client and the mobile client may be communicatively coupled to one another such as via communication links and respectively.

While one cloud server two robot clients and and one mobile client are shown more or fewer cloud servers robot clients and mobile clients are possible as well. In addition different types of client devices besides robot clients and and mobile client may be coupled to the cloud server . For example any device that generally comprises a display system memory and a processor may be coupled to the cloud server .

The system may be configured to operate in a cloud based computing architecture. Cloud based computing generally refers to networked computer architectures in which data storage and instruction execution may be divided to some extent between server and client devices. In the system the cloud server may be said to be a server device while the robot clients and and the mobile client may be said to be client devices. Thus in the system data storage and instruction execution may be divided to some extent between the cloud server the robot clients and and the mobile client .

In particular in the system data indicating states and or state attributes for a number of environments may be exchanged between the cloud server the robot clients and and the mobile client . In this manner the data indicating the states and state attributes for the environments may be said to be divided or shared between the cloud server the robot clients and and the mobile client .

Further in the system instructions executable to determine the states may be exchanged between the cloud server the robot clients and and the mobile client . In this manner the instruction execution may be said to be divided or shared between the cloud server the robot clients and and the mobile client .

In some embodiments at least some of the data indicating the states and state attributes for the environments and the instructions executable to determine the states may be dynamically delivered to and or downloaded by the robot clients and as needed or otherwise for execution at the robot clients and . In this manner the robot clients and may access at least some of this data and instructions on a near real time basis. Further in some embodiments downloaded data and instructions can be tailored to the specific capabilities of the robot clients and accessing the cloud server . Still further in some embodiments details of the architecture may be transparent to users of the robot clients and . Dividing data and instruction storage and execution between the cloud server and the robot clients and may allow more processing to be performed by the cloud server taking advantage of the comparatively greater processing power and capability of the cloud server for example.

In the system the cloud server includes a cloud service a cloud platform a cloud infrastructure and a database . The cloud server may include more or fewer components and each of the cloud service the cloud platform the cloud infrastructure and the database may comprise multiple elements as well. Thus one or more of the described functions of the system may be divided up into additional functional or physical components or combined into fewer functional or physical components. In some further examples additional functional and or physical components may be added to the examples illustrated by . Delivery of cloud computing may involve multiple cloud components communicating with each other over application programming interfaces such as web services and three tier architectures for example.

The cloud server may represent a networked computer architecture and in one example the cloud service represents a queue for handling requests from client devices such as the robot clients and and the mobile client . The cloud platform may include a frontend of the cloud and may be coupled to the cloud service to perform functions to interact with client devices. The cloud platform may include applications used to access the cloud server via a user interface such as a web browser. The cloud infrastructure may include service application of billing components of the cloud server and thus may interact with the cloud service . The database may represent storage capabilities by the cloud server and thus may be accessed by any of the cloud service the cloud platform and or the infrastructure . An example server is further described below in connection with .

As noted above the system includes robot clients and each of which is coupled to or otherwise configured to be capable of communicating with components of the cloud server . Each of the robot clients and may comprise any computing device that is configured to connect to the cloud server and that has an actuation capability e.g. electromechanical capabilities . Each robot client and may further be a combination of computing devices. Robot clients and may be located in the same environment or may be located in different environments.

Further as noted above the system includes mobile client which is coupled to or otherwise configured to be capable of communication with components of the cloud server . While the mobile client is shown as a smartphone the mobile client may comprise any computing device that is configured to connect to the cloud server . For example the mobile client may be a tablet or personal computer. Other examples are possible as well. Mobile client may further be a combination of computing devices. Mobile client may be located in the same environment as one or both of the robot clients and or may be located in a different environment.

Each of the robot clients and and the mobile client may be configured to collect data corresponding to state attributes for environments. For example one or more of the robot clients and and the mobile client may be configured to collect the data corresponding to the state attributes through observation of the environment and or by receiving an indication of the state attributes from a user. The robot clients and and the mobile client may be configured to collect data corresponding to the state attributes in other manners as well.

Each of the robot clients and and the mobile client may be further configured to share the data corresponding to the state attributes with one another and or with the cloud server . The robot clients and and the mobile client may share the data automatically or upon request. For example the robot clients and and the mobile client may share the data with the server automatically and with one another upon request. Other examples are possible as well.

Each of the robot clients and and the mobile client may be further configured to use the state attributes to determine one or more states for one or more environments. Each state may include a number of state attributes. The robot clients and and the mobile client may store the states including the state attributes in data storage.

Each of the robot clients and and the mobile client may be further configured to share the data corresponding to the states with one another and or with the cloud server . The robot clients and and the mobile client may share the data automatically or upon request. For example the robot clients and and the mobile client may share the data with the server automatically and with one another upon request. Other examples are possible as well.

The robot clients and may be further configured to modify one or more environments according to the states. In particular the robot clients and may be configured to modify an environment to include at least some of the state attributes of a state. The robot clients and may modify the environment themselves or may instruct other robots or other devices to modify the environment. In one example the robot clients and may be configured to communicate with another robot such as a building home automation system and instruct the automation system to modify the environment. For instance the automation system may receive instructions for modifying a temperature lighting etc. based on information from the robot clients and or .

Each of the communication links and shown in may include wired links such as serial or parallel buses or wireless links such as Bluetooth IEEE 802.11 IEEE 802.11 may refer to IEEE 802.11 2007 IEEE 802.11n 2009 or any other IEEE 802.11 revision or other wireless based communication links.

In some examples the system may include access points through which robot clients and and mobile client may communicate with the cloud server . Access points may take various forms. For example an access point may take the form of a wireless access point WAP or wireless router. As another example if robot clients or or mobile device connects using a cellular air interface protocol such as a CDMA or GSM protocol an access point may be a base station in a cellular network that provides Internet connectivity via the cellular network.

As such robot clients and and mobile client may include a wired or wireless network interface through which to connect to the cloud server or access points . As an example robot clients and and mobile client may be configured to use one or more protocols such as 802.11 802.16 WiMAX LTE GSM GPRS CDMA EV DO and or HSPDA among others. Furthermore robot clients and and mobile client may be configured use multiple wired and or wireless protocols such as 3G or 4G data connectivity using a cellular communication protocol e.g. CDMA GSM or WiMAX as well as for WiFi connectivity using 802.11 . Other examples are also possible.

The robot client interface may be any interface configured to exchange with one or more robot devices such as for example robot clients and as described above in connection with data corresponding to states and or state attributes for one or more environments. For example the robot client interface may be a wireless interface. To this end the robot client interface may include an antenna and a chipset for communicating with the robot devices over an air interface. The chipset or robot client interface in general may be arranged to communicate according to one or more types of wireless communication e.g. protocols such as Bluetooth communication protocols described in IEEE 802.11 including any IEEE 802.11 revisions cellular technology such as GSM CDMA UMTS EV DO WiMAX or LTE or Zigbee among other possibilities. Alternately or additionally the robot client interface may be a web based interface accessible by the robot devices. The robot client interface may take other forms as well.

The mobile client interface may be any interface configured to exchange with one or more mobile clients such as for example mobile client as described above in connection with data corresponding to states and or state attributes for one or more environments. To this end the mobile client interface may be for example a wireless interface such as any of the wireless interfaces described above.

In some embodiments the robot client interface and the mobile client interface may be combined. Further in some embodiments the server may include one or more additional interfaces configured to receive data from one or more additional entities such as other client devices and the Internet.

The processor may comprise one or more general purpose processors and or one or more special purpose processors. To the extent the processor includes more than one processor such processors could work separately or in combination. Further the processor may be integrated in whole or in part with the robot client interface the mobile client interface and or with other components.

Data storage in turn may comprise one or more volatile and or one or more non volatile storage components such as optical magnetic and or organic storage and data storage may be integrated in whole or in part with the processor . Further data storage may contain states and instructions e.g. program logic executable by the processor to carry out various server functions. In some embodiments data storage may additionally contain information associated with the states information that can be used to retrieve the states from a database and or information to determine the states .

Each state may include a number of state attributes for an environment. For example a state may include an inventory of objects in the environment and a position of each of the objects or may include a level or type of lighting in the environment. Other examples are possible as well.

Some of the states may be determined at the server based on state attributes that are predetermined at the server and or received from the robot devices mobile clients and or other client devices. Further some of the states may be received from the robot devices mobile clients and or other client devices. Still further some of the states may be predetermined at the server .

Instructions may be executable by the processor to determine and maintain the states . Data storage may include additional instructions as well.

The server interface may be any interface configured to exchange with a server such as for example server as described above in connection with information associated with states and or state attributes for one or more environments. The information may be exchanged in response to a query from the robot device . The server interface may be configured to transmit and receive other information as well.

In some embodiments the server interface may be a wireless interface. To this end the server interface may include an antenna and a chipset for communicating with the server over an air interface. The chipset or server interface in general may be arranged to communicate according to one or more types of wireless communication e.g. protocols such as Bluetooth communication protocols described in IEEE 802.11 including any IEEE 802.11 revisions cellular technology such as GSM CDMA UMTS EV DO WiMAX or LTE or Zigbee among other possibilities. Alternately or additionally the server interface may be a web based application supported by the server and running on the robot device . The server interface may take other forms as well.

The device interface may be any interface configured to exchange with another device information associated with states and or state attributes for one or more environments. The information may be exchanged in response to a query from the robot device . The device may be another robot device a mobile device or any other device. The device interface may be configured to transmit and receive other information as well. To this end the device interface may be for example a wireless interface such as any of the wireless interfaces described above.

In some embodiments the server interface and the device interface may be combined. Further in some embodiments the robot device may include one or more additional interfaces configured to receive data from one or more additional entities and or the Internet.

Detector may be any camera or other imaging device that is configured to capture an image of an arrangement of an environment. In embodiments where the detector is a camera the camera may be configured to detect visible light or may be configured to detect light from other portions of the spectrum such as infrared or ultraviolet light or x rays. Other types of cameras are possible as well. In embodiments where the detector is an imaging device the detector may be a range detector. Other types of imaging devices are possible as well.

User interface may be an integrated user interface that allows a user to interact with the robot device . In particular user interface may be configured to receive from a user information associated with states and or state attributes for one or more environments. To this end user interface may include various buttons and or a touchscreen interface that allow a user to provide input. Alternately or additionally user interface may include a microphone configured to receive voice commands from a user. Other types of user interfaces are possible as well.

The sensors may be any sensors configured to collect data corresponding to state attributes for one or more environments. For example sensors may include a temperature sensor configured to sense a temperature in the environment. The temperature may be a state attribute of the environment. As still another example sensors may include a light sensor configured to sense a level and or a type of lighting in the environment. The level and or the type of lighting may be a state attribute of the environment. Sensors may alternately or additionally include one or more of cameras Radio Frequency identification RFID systems wireless sensors range sensors microphones or other audio sensors speakers and or radar sensors. Other types of sensors are possible as well.

The processor may comprise one or more general purpose processors and or one or more special purpose processors. To the extent the processor includes more than one processor such processors could work separately or in combination. Further the processor may be integrated in whole or in part with the server interface the robot interface the detector the user interface any of the sensors and or with other components.

Data storage in turn may comprise one or more volatile and or one or more non volatile storage components such as optical magnetic and or organic storage or may include non transitory data storage and data storage may be integrated in whole or in part with the processor . Further data storage may contain states and instructions e.g. program logic executable by the processor to carry out various robot device functions.

Each state may describe an arrangement of an environment using a number of state attributes. For example a state may include an inventory of objects in the environment and a position of each of the objects or may include a level or type of lighting in the environment. Other examples are possible as well.

Portions of the states may be determined based on information associated with states and or state attributes that is received from the server via the server interface . Alternately or additionally portions of the states may be determined based on information associated with states and or state attributes that is received from other robot devices mobile devices or other device via the device interface . Still alternately or additionally portions of the states may be determined based on one or more images captured using the detector . Still alternately or additionally portions of the states may be determined based on information associated with states and or state attributes that is received from a user via the user interface . Still alternately or additionally portions of the states may be determined based on data corresponding to the state attributes sensed at the sensors . Still alternately or additionally portions of the states may be predetermined at the robot device .

Instructions may be executable by the processor to determine states or portions of states for environments based on the information associated with states and or state attributes received at the server interface the device interface and the user interface . The information may include for example a portion of the state and or one or more state attributes for the state.

Further instructions may be executable by the processor to determine states or portions of states for environments based on the images captured by the detector . For example instructions may be executable by the processor to analyze an image of an arrangement of an environment to identify one or more state attributes describing the arrangement. Alternately or additionally instructions may be executable by the processor to compare an image of a first arrangement of an environment with an image of a second arrangement of the environment to identify one or more state attributes describing the second environment.

Still further instructions may be executable by the processor to determine states or portions of states for environments based on the data collected at the sensors corresponding to state attributes for one or more environments.

Instructions may be further executable by the processor to combine portions of state and or state attributes as determined from any of server interface the device interface the detector the user interface and the sensors to determine states and or portions of states for environments.

Instructions may be further executable by the processor to receive a request for a determined state and in response to receiving the request cause the environment to be modified by one or more robot devices based on at least one of the state attributes included in the requested state. To this end the instructions may be executable by the processor to use the mechanical actuators to modify the environment and or to transmit instructions to one or more other robot devices or devices to modify the environment.

In some embodiments the client device may include or be a module that can be connected to and disconnected from the robot device . For example the client device may be a mobile device or tablet computer. Other examples are possible as well.

In some embodiments the client device may be configured to physically connect to the robot device such as by sitting on a chest of the robot device to form an interactive display. In other embodiments the client device may be configured to wirelessly connect to the robot device through for example a Bluetooth connection. Other wireless technologies are possible as well.

In some embodiments the client device may include one or more sensors that when the client device is connected to the robot device serve as the sensors for the robot device . For example in embodiments where the client device comprises a tablet computer the sensors may include those often found in tablet computers such as for example GPS receivers and cameras. Other examples are possible as well.

In some embodiments the client device may be configured to interact with the server other robot devices mobile clients and or other client devices whether connected to the robot device or not and may share information with the robot device when connected. This may allow a user to download new states state attributes or other information for the robot device from the server other robot devices mobile clients and or other client devices. For example a predetermined state may be stored on at the server and a user may be able to select this state using the client device to download the state from the server and when the client device is placed into or coupled to the robot device the robot device would be able to store the state. Other examples are possible as well.

In some embodiments one or more of the server interface the robot interface the detector the user interface the sensors the processor and data storage may be modules that can be removably connected to the client device and or the robot device . For example one or more of the sensors may be removably connected to the client device and or the robot device . This may allow a user to configure the types of data that will be collected by the robot device . For example a user may connect an ambient temperature sensor to the client device and or the robot device and the robot device may then be able to collect data corresponding to the ambient temperature in an environment. Further this may allow the robot device to vary power consumption based on for example a battery power level of the robot device . For example the robot device may power off one or more sensors to conserve power. Other examples are possible as well.

In embodiments where one or more of the server interface the robot interface the detector the user interface the sensors the processor and data storage are modules any of the modules may be interconnected and or may communicate to receive data or instructions from each other so as to provide a specific output or functionality for the robot device .

The mechanical actuators may include a moveable base motors wheels movable arms and or other elements that enable robot device to move in or interact with the environment.

Any of the robot devices illustrated in may be configured to operate according to a robot operating system e.g. an operating system designed for specific functions of the robot device . A robot operating system may provide libraries and tools e.g. hardware abstraction device drivers visualizers message passing package management etc. to enable robot applications. Examples of robot operating systems include open source software such as ROS robot operating system DROS or ARCOS advanced robotics control operating system proprietary software and other examples. A robot operating system may include publish and subscribe functionality and may also include functionality to control components of the robot device such as head tracking base movement e.g. velocity control navigation framework etc.

Method shown in presents an embodiment of a method that for example could be used with systems devices and servers described herein. Method may include one or more operations functions or actions as illustrated by one or more of blocks . Although the blocks are illustrated in a sequential order these blocks may also be performed in parallel and or in a different order than those described herein. Also the various blocks may be combined into fewer blocks divided into additional blocks and or removed based upon the desired implementation.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein the flowchart shows functionality and operation of one possible implementation of present embodiments. In this regard each block may represent a module a segment or a portion of program code which includes one or more instructions executable by a processor for implementing specific logical functions or steps in the process. The program code may be stored on any type of computer readable medium for example such as a storage device including a disk or hard drive. The computer readable medium may include a non transitory computer readable medium for example such as computer readable media that store data for short periods of time like register memory processor cache and Random Access Memory RAM . The computer readable medium may also include nontransitory media such as secondary or persistent long term storage like read only memory ROM optical or magnetic disks compact disc read only memory CD ROM for example. The computer readable media may also be any other volatile or non volatile storage systems. The computer readable medium may be considered a computer readable storage medium a tangible storage device or other article of manufacture for example.

In addition for the method and other processes and methods disclosed herein each block may represent circuitry that is wired to perform the specific logical functions in the process.

As shown the method begins at block where a robot device captures an image of an arrangement of an environment. The robot device may capture the image using for example a detector such as the detector described above in connection with . Other examples are possible as well.

The method continues at block where the robot device determines based on the image at least a portion of a state describing the arrangement using a plurality of state attributes. For example if the arrangement of the environment is a dinner party arrangement the robot may determine at least a part of a dinner party state describing the dinner party arrangement using state attributes such as a number of chairs a configuration of chairs a temperature a type of music a volume of music and a guest list. Other examples are possible as well.

In order to determine the state attributes the robot device may perform image analysis on the image. For example the robot device may use perform image analysis to recognize a number of objects in the environment and may compile an inventory of the objects in the environment. The inventory may be a state attribute of the environment. As another example the robot device may capture a second image as well and may perform image analysis to determine differences between the image and the second image such as the presence of an object in the second image and not in the image or a dimming of lights from the image to the second image. The object and the dimmer lights may be state attributes of the environment. As still another example the robot device may query a server with the image and may receive in response to the query at least one state attribute and or at least a portion of the state. The robot device may identify the state attributes based on the image in other manners as well.

In some embodiments the robot device may determine at least a portion of the state in other manners as well.

In one aspect the robot device may determine at least a portion of the state by receiving at least a portion of the state and or information associated with at least one of the state attributes from a server another robot device a mobile device or another client device. For example the robot device may receive from the server a state determined at the server that includes the plurality of state attributes for the environment. As another example the robot device may receive from another robot device a portion of the state determined at the other robot device that includes some of the state attributes for the environment. Other examples are possible as well.

In another aspect the robot device may determine at least a portion of the state by receiving information associated with at least one of the state attributes from a user. For example the robot device may receive from a user e.g. through a user interface an indication of a preferred seat height for a chair in the environment. The user preferred seat height may be a state attribute for the environment. As another example the robot device may receive from a user a configuration of chairs for a meeting in the environment. The meeting chair configuration may be a state attribute for the environment. Other examples are possible as well.

In yet another aspect the robot device may determine at least a portion of the state by using a number of sensors to sense the state attributes in the environment. For instance the robot device may use a temperature sensor to sense the temperature in the environment or may use a microphone to sense a volume of noise in the environment. The temperature and the volume may each be state attributes for the environment. As another example the robot device may use a camera to capture one or more images of the environment and may perform image analysis on the one or more images to identify the state attributes in the environment.

In yet another aspect the robot device may identify the state attributes by receiving indications of the state attributes from a server another robot device a mobile client or other client devices. For example the robot device may receive from a mobile client a type of music preferred for the environment by a user of the mobile client. The user preferred type of music may be a state attribute of the environment. Other examples are possible as well.

The robot device may combine the portions of the state and or the state attributes determined in any of the manners above to determine the state. For example the robot device may determine a number of state attributes by analyzing the image. Further the robot device may receive from the server a portion of the state. The robot device may then determine the state by modifying the received state to include the determined state attributes. Other examples are possible as well.

Each state may include various types of state attributes. Some state attributes may be user attributes for a particular user such as a room temperature preferred by the particular user. Other state attributes may be event attributes for a particular type of event such as an inventory of objects desired for the particular type of event. Still other state attributes may be temporal attributes for a particular time period such as a level of lighting for the particular time period. Other types of attributes are possible as well. Any type of state attributes may be combined to determine a state. For example a dinner party state may include a number of event attributes for a dinner party as well as a number of user attributes for guests at the dinner party. Other examples are possible as well.

The method continues at block where the robot device receives a request for the state. The request may take a number of forms.

In some embodiments the request may be a request for the state from a user. For example the user may use a user interface at the robot device to select the state from a list of states. As another example a user may use a user interface at a mobile client to determine the state and the mobile client may transmit to the robot device the request for the state. Other examples are possible as well.

In other embodiments the request may be a calendar event. To this end the robot device may store or may have access to a calendar of the environment and or a user of the environment. Particular calendar events may indicate to the robot device a request for the state. For example a calendar event for a meeting may indicate to the robot device a request for a meeting state and the state attributes of the meeting state may include a configuration of chairs an inventory of supplies for the meeting and or a temperature for the environment. As another example the calendar event for the meeting may indicate to the robot device a request for a user state of an attendee of the meeting and the state attributes of the user state may include a lighting level and or a beverage preferred for the user for the environment. Other examples are possible as well.

In other embodiments the request may be a user arrival. The user arrival may be detected by the robot device or may be indicated through for example user input and or a calendar event. In either case the user arrival may indicate to the robot device a request for the user s state. For example the state attributes of the user s state may include a type of music preferred by the user a type of lighting preferred by the user and or a type of beverage preferred by the user. Other examples are possible as well.

In some embodiments block may precede blocks and or . For example the robot device may receive a request for a state that is not yet determined at the robot device. In these embodiments the robot device may determine the state in response to the request. The robot device may determine the state by for example querying the server another robot device a mobile client another client device or a user for the state a portion of the state and or state attributes of the state.

The method continues at block where in response to receiving the request the robot device causes the environment to be modified based on at least one of the state attributes. For example the robot device may bring to the environment one or more objects included in a state attribute of an inventory of objects for the state. As another example the robot device may rearrange furniture in the environment according to a state attribute of an arrangement for the state. As yet another example the robot device may power on or off one or more devices in the environment according to one or more state attributes for the state. As still another example the robot device may adjust a temperature volume seat height or lighting level in the environment according to one or more state attributes of the state. Other examples are possible as well.

In some embodiments the robot device may itself modify the environment by for example using one or more mechanical actuators at the robot device to move objects in the environment. Further in some embodiments the robot device may instruct one or more additional robot devices or devices to modify the environment. For instance the robot device may provide instructions to at least one other robot device. The instructions may be executable by the at least one other robot device to adjust a temperature volume lighting position etc. The additional robot devices and devices may include for example a thermostat a stereo speakers lights or furniture or a home automation system configured to control one or more parameters for a home. Other examples are possible as well.

In some embodiments a robot device may receive requests for two or more states for an environment at one time. For example a user may plan a dinner party in an environment. Accordingly the robot device may receive e.g. from the user or from a calendar of the user a request for a dinner party state. Additionally the robot device may receive e.g. from the user or from a calendar of the user a request for a user state for a guest of the dinner party. In these embodiments the method may further include the robot device considering the state attributes of all of the states in order to modify the environment. is a block diagram of an example method for modifying an environment according to two states.

As shown in these embodiments the method may continue at block where the robot device receives a request for an additional state. Thus the robot device may have received requests for both the state and the additional state. In some embodiments the requests may take the same form. For example both of the requests may be received from a user. In other embodiments the requests may take different forms. For example the request for the state may be received from a user while the request for the additional state may be in the form of a calendar event. Other examples are possible as well.

At block the robot device may identify common and compatible state attributes of the state and the additional state.

Common state attributes may be those state attributes that are included in both the state and the additional state. Using the example of the dinner party above the common state attributes may be state attributes that are included in both the dinner party state and the user state. For example both the dinner party state and the user state may include a state attribute of classical music. Other examples are possible as well.

Compatible state attributes may be those state attributes that are included only in one of the states but do not conflict with any state attributes in the other state. Using the example of the dinner party above the compatible state attributes may be state attributes that are included one of the dinner party state and the user state but do not conflict with any state attributes in the other of the dinner party state and the user state. For example the dinner party state may include a state attribute of a 71 F. ambient temperature and the user state may not indicate any temperature. Other examples are possible as well.

At block the robot device may cause the environment to be modified based on at least one of the common and compatible state attributes. Using the example of the dinner party above the robot device may modify the environment to include classical music and a 71 F. ambient temperature. Each of these state attributes either adhere to or do not conflict with the dinner party state and the user state. Other examples are possible as well.

In some cases there may be state attributes of the state and or the additional state that are neither common nor compatible. Such state attributes may be said to be conflicting state attributes. Using the example of the dinner party above the dinner party state may include a state attribute of dim lighting while the user state may include a state attribute of bright lighting. The robot device may identify such conflicting state attributes and may resolve the conflicting state attributes in a number of ways.

In some embodiments the robot device may resolve the conflicting state attributes by determining a compromise between the conflicting state attributes. Using the example of the dinner party above the robot device may compromise the state attributes of dim lighting and bright lighting to arrive at medium lighting. In embodiments where the state attributes are numeric values the robot device may compromise the state attributes by determining a weighted or unweighted mean or median. Alternately or additionally the robot device may compromise the state attributes of dim lighting and bright lighting to arrive at dim overhead lighting and bright lamp lighting near a chair assigned to the user. The robot device may determine a compromise between conflicting state attributes in other manners as well.

In other embodiments the robot device may resolve the conflicting state attributes by selecting one state attribute over the other. Using the example of the dinner party above the robot device may select the state attribute of dim lighting over the state attribute of bright lighting or may select the state attribute of bright lighting over the state attribute of dim lighting. In order to make such a selection the robot device may query a user the server another robot device or another device. Alternately or additionally the robot device may consider a predetermined importance level of each of the dinner party state and the user state. Still alternately or additionally in embodiments when more than two conflicting state attributes are being considered the robot device may determine which state attributes outweigh others e.g. for two state attributes of bright lighting and one state attribute of dim lighting the robot device may select a state attribute of bright lighting . The robot device may select one state attribute over the other in other manners as well.

A robot device may store the state for John Smith. The robot device may further receive a request for the state . The request may be for example a request from a user for the state . Alternately or additionally the request may be a calendar event that lists John Smith as an attendee. Still alternately or additionally the request may be John Smith s arrival as detected by the robot device or as indicated by a user other robot device or other device. The request may take other forms as well.

In response to the request the robot device may modify the environment to include at least some of the state attributes of the state for John Smith. For example the robot device may instruct lights in the environment to adjust to level 4 and may instruct a stereo in the environment to play rock music at volume level 7.2. Other examples are possible as well.

A robot device may store the state for dinner parties. The robot device may further receive a request for the state . The request may be for example a request from a user for the state . Alternately or additionally the request may be a calendar event for a dinner party. The request may take other forms as well.

In response to the request the robot device may modify the environment to include at least some of the state attributes of the state for dinner parties. For example the robot device may arrange fourteen chairs in the environment and may place a white tablecloth on the table. Other examples are possible as well.

A robot device may store the state for weekends. The robot device may further receive a request for the state . The request may be for example a request from a user for the state . Alternately or additionally the request may be a calendar day that is a weekend. The request may take other forms as well.

In response to the request the robot device may modify the environment to include at least some of the state attributes of the state for weekends. For example the robot device may instruct the projector to turn off and may turn on the alarm system. Other examples are possible as well.

While the states and above are shown to include only one type of state attribute user attributes event attributes and temporal attributes respectively in some embodiments one or more of the example data and may include other types of attributes as well or any of the states described herein may be combined. For example the state may include a list of guests and may further include a number of user attributes for the guests. As another example the state may include an event that is occurring during the weekend and may further include a number of event attributes for the event. Other examples are possible as well.

It should be understood that arrangements described herein are for purposes of example only. As such those skilled in the art will appreciate that other arrangements and other elements e.g. machines interfaces functions orders and groupings of functions etc. can be used instead and some elements may be omitted altogether according to the desired results. Further many of the elements that are described are functional entities that may be implemented as discrete or distributed components or in conjunction with other components in any suitable combination and location.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope being indicated by the following claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

