---

title: Information processing apparatus, device information display method, and computer-readable storage medium
abstract: An information processing apparatus includes an obtaining unit configured to obtain pieces of identification information sent from devices mutually connected via a network, a determination unit configured to determine, in a case where the pieces of identification information which are obtained by the obtaining unit and sent by using mutually different protocols are identical with each other, that the devices which send the pieces of identification information are identical with each other, and a display unit configured to integrate information related to the devices determined to be identical with each other by the determination unit and display the information on a display apparatus.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08611248&OS=08611248&RS=08611248
owner: Canon Kabushiki Kaisha
number: 08611248
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20120315
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 343 381 filed Dec. 23 2008 which claims the benefit of Japanese Patent Application. No. 2008 000787 filed Jan. 7 2008 and No. 2008 308910 filed Dec. 3 2008 which are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The present invention relates to an information processing apparatus a device information display method and a computer readable storage medium. In particular the invention relates to an information processing apparatus a device information display method and a computer readable storage medium which are suitably used for displaying information related to a device corresponding to a plurality of protocols on an information processing apparatus side.

In recent years with a development of a network infrastructure a network based printer a copier a facsimile a scanner a digital camera and an apparatus provided with these multiple functions peripheral apparatuses are being rapidly spread. Along with this setting up for such a network based peripheral apparatus that is user operations for installing a driver for the peripheral apparatus into an information processing apparatus and internal controls are devised in various manners.

As the network based peripheral apparatuses become widely used a technology is being developed of searching for a peripheral apparatus which provides various services via a network and controlling the peripheral apparatus from an information processing apparatus such as a personal computer client terminal apparatus . As such a technology for example UPnP Universal Plug and Play exists which is standardized by UPnP Forum http www.upnp.org . In addition as a similar technology Devices Profile for web Services exists specifications of which are disclosed at W3C http www.w3.org on the internet. Furthermore as a technology similar to this Devices Profile for web Services WSD web Services on Devices also exists.

As the technology related to these fields a technology described in US 2006 0184510 corresponding to Japanese Patent Laid Open No. 2004 334751 exists.

The present invention provides for example an information processing apparatus including an obtaining unit configured to obtain pieces of identification information sent from devices mutually connected via a network a determination unit configured to determine in a case where the pieces of identification information which are obtained by the obtaining unit and sent by using mutually different protocols are identical with each other that the devices which send the pieces of identification information are identical with each other and a display unit configured to integrate information related to the devices determined to be identical with each other by the determination unit and display the information on a display apparatus.

Other features and advantageous of the present invention will be apparent from the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which like reference characters designate the same or similar parts throughout there of.

First premises for exemplary embodiments of the present invention will be described. Herein a case is considered in which Microsoft Windows Vista is installed as an OS Operating System into an information processing apparatus. Also an MEP Multi Function Peripheral in which a network based color inkjet printer and a flat bed scanner are integrated with each other is considered as a peripheral apparatus. For example this peripheral apparatus is presumed to be provided with two different WSD based services including a print service and a scan service of WSD. In a case where the information processing apparatus in which Windows Vista is installed and the peripheral apparatus are mutually connected via a network on the OS when a network folder is opened an icon representing the peripheral apparatus is displayed as one device. This display mechanism is based on functions of WSD which is mounted as a default in Windows Vista and Plug and Play Extensions PnP X and the following control is performed.

Step A 1 The information processing apparatus is connected to a network via a network cable and the information processing apparatus is activated.

Step A 2 The peripheral apparatus is connected to the network via the network cable and a power source of the peripheral apparatus is turned ON.

Step A 3 The peripheral apparatus sends a Hello message of WS Discovery to the information processing apparatus to notify that the peripheral apparatus is connected to the network.

Step A 4 In response to the request from the information processing apparatus the peripheral apparatus sends detailed information of the peripheral apparatus in a metadata element format of SOAP Simple Object Access Protocol to the information processing apparatus 

Step A 5 The information processing apparatus the OS Windows Vista obtains information regulated by WSD and PnP X in the detailed information.

Step A 6 The network folder in the OS checks the presence or absence of the WSD device on the network.

Step A 7 The network folder obtains information related to the services in this example the print service and the scan service of NEC from the information obtained in step A 5.

Step A 8 The network folder recognizes that this peripheral apparatus is one WED compatible device provided with the two services including the print service and the scan service of WSD.

In this manner for example the peripheral apparatus provided with the plurality of services regulated by the one protocol which is WED is displayed in the network folder on the OS Windows Vista as the one WED compatible device. Therefore it is possible for the user to recognize that the one peripheral apparatus is connected on the network.

It is noted that Plug and Play Extensions PnP X may be regarded as the series of extension functions of Plug and Play which provide a support for a network connection device.

The peripheral apparatus is presumed to he provided with print services of WED and UPnP and two different protocols. In this case after the processing in the above described steps A 1 and A 2 is executed as another processing independent from the processing in the above described steps A 3 to A 9 the following processing is executed.

Step B 1 The information processing apparatus sends an SSDP Simple Service Discovery Protocol request to the peripheral apparatus.

Step B 2 After the peripheral apparatus receives the SSDP request in step B 1 an SSDP response is sent to the information processing apparatus.

Step B 3 In response to the request from the information processing apparatus the peripheral apparatus sends the detailed information of the peripheral apparatus in a format of a device element of UPnP to the information processing apparatus.

Step B 4 The information processing apparatus the OS Windows Vista obtains information regulated by UPnP and PnP X in this detailed information.

Step B 5 The network folder in the OS checks the presence or absence of the UPnP device on the network.

Step B 6 The network folder obtains information related to the service in this example the print service of UPnP from the detailed information obtained in step B 4.

Step B 7 The network folder recognizes that the peripheral apparatus which sends the detailed information is one UPnP compatible device provided with the print service of UPnP.

Step B 8 The network folder displays the peripheral apparatus which sends the detailed information as one UPnP compatible device.

In this manner in a case where the peripheral apparatus is provided for example with the plurality of different protocols such as WSD and UPnP the processing in the above described steps A 3 to A 9 and the processing in the above described steps B 1 to B 8 are independently executed. As a result in the network folder on the OS Windows Vista the one WSD compatible device and the one the UPnP compatible device are both displayed as total two devices. That is such a problem occurs that even when the one peripheral apparatus is connected to the network display is performed in the network folder on the OS Windows Vista as if two peripheral apparatuses are connected to the network. For example there is a problem that the WSD device and the UPnP device are displayed as two mutually independent devices on a network monitor in a mode of two icons corresponding to the respective devices. With this configuration the user may have such misunderstanding that two peripheral apparatuses are connected to the network.

Hereinafter a first exemplary embodiment of the present invention will be described with reference with the drawings. It is noted that in the following description information regarding SOAP Simple Object Access Protocol is already disclosed on the Internet at W3C and therefore a description thereof will be omitted. Also information which will be cited below regarding a part to which no detailed description is provided in information of the OS Windows Vista is already disclosed in a site of Microsoft Developer Network MSDN . Thus a detailed description thereof will be omitted.

in information processing apparatuses and are composed of general personal computers hereinafter which may be abbreviated as PC. The PCs and are composed by including hardware which will be described below with reference to and in which an OS equivalent to Microsoft Windows Vista as an OS Operating System is presumed to be installed. The PCs and are connected to a network composed for example of Ethernet.

Printers and are color inkjet printers which are one of examples of the peripheral apparatus device . The printer is provided with a novel function which is newly proposed herein and is composed of a printer supporting WSD and UPnP with a model name of Kmmn made by ADC Company. The printer is a related art printer provided with no novel function which is newly proposed herein and is composed of a printer supporting WSD and UPnP with a model name of Xyz made by ABC Company. The printer is provided with the novel function which is newly proposed herein and is composed of a printer supporting WSD with model name of Misachan made by DEF Company. The printer is provided with the novel function which is newly proposed herein and is composed of a printer supporting UPnP with model name of Natchan made by DEF Company. It is noted that the peripheral apparatus device is not limited to the printer but may also be a printer a copier a facsimile a scanner a digital camera an apparatus provided with these multiple functions and the like. It is noted that the above described company names ABC Company and DESF Company and the model names Kmmn Xyz Misachan and Natchan are made up names.

The printers and are composed by including hardware which will be described below with reference to and are mutually connected to the PCs and via the network . The information processing apparatuses and and the printers and can. mutually perform a bi directional communication. An application application program is composed of a file .EXE in an executable format for Windows . Herein the network monitor Network Monitor for displaying a screen shown in. is represented as the application as an example.

As illustrated in the PC is provided with a random access memory unit a RAM a hard disk drive functioning as a storage unit an HDD a keyboard unit which is an example of an input unit a KBD and a. control unit a CPU . Furthermore the PC is provided with a display for displaying which is an example of a display unit a LCD a network board which is an example of a communication control unit an NB and a bus for mutually connecting the above described components of the PCs and address bus data bus . It is noted that the storage unit may be composed of a portable CD ROM a ROM which is internally installed or the like. The respective modules software shown in are stored in the HDD read out by the RAM as occasion demands and executed by the CPU . With this configuration the CPU realizes functions of the respective modules software shown in .

In a CPU is composed of a micro processor and the like. As a central processing apparatus of the printer while following a program stored in a ROM a RAM the CPU controls a communication unit a recording unit and the like. The ROM stores a program for the printer to perform a processing of recording printing a program for performing a processing of informing the PC of a state and the like while following a control of a printer driver which will be described in . The RAM temporarily stores printing data mainly sent from the PC . The recording unit performs the printing based on this printing data.

The communication unit includes a connection port for the network and controls a communication of the network Ethernet . The recording unit is constructed by including a recording unit composed of an inkjet system recording head respective color ink a carriage a recording sheet conveyance mechanism and the like and an electric circuit composed of ASIC or the like for generating printing pulses at the recording unit on the basis of the printing data.

Through a print operation on a printable application a display content image data of a file opened on the application is temporarily stored in the HDD of the PC as a spool file in a device independent data format. The image data is converted into printing data including a printer control command via the printer driver and then sent to the printer via the network .

The printing data received by the printer is converted into printing pulses by the recording unit and printed on the recording sheet. The operation unit is composed of various buttons such as a power source button and a reset button. The user can operate the printer by using the operation unit . The display unit is composed of a liquid crystal display of a touch panel with which it is possible to perform display of a state or the printer display of various settings input and the like.

In a first network control stack controls the network Ethernet . A second network control stack controls the It Network. A WSD control stack controls the WSD. The UPnP control stack controls the UPnP. An N PnP control stack controls Plug and Play of the network hereinafter which may be abbreviated as N PnP . It is noted that as a function mounted as a default in the OS Windows Vista which provides a support to the network connection device as the series of extension functions of Plug and Play the following function exists that is Plug and Play Extensions PnP X . However according to the present embodiment the description is provided while taking a case as an example where the above described N PnP is utilized as the function equivalent to PnP X.

A device driver group has a default driver group supplied with the OS Windows Vista as a default and an IHV made driver group provided from IHV Independent. Hardware Vendors . An API DDI interface has API Application Programming Interface and DDI Device Driver Interface . The network monitor which is an application program is supplied with the OS Windows Vista as a default. The print application which is an application program is an application capable of executing a print as will he described in . An application group has the network monitor a print application and the like.

An event of WS Discovery which will be described below with reference to is notified to the network monitor via the API DDI interface . The network monitor can obtain the detailed information of the printer included in an SOAP metadata element which will be described below with reference to and the detailed information of the printer included in an SOAP metadata element which will be described below with reference to via the API DPI interface . Also the network monitor can also obtain the detailed information of the printer included in a UPnP device element which will be described below with reference to and the detailed information of the printer included in a UPnP device element which will be described below with reference to via the API DDI interface . The network monitor can install the printer driver for the printer via the API DDI interface into the PC and delete uninstall the printer driver from the PC . The network monitor can display the following icons and menus which will be described below with reference to via the API DDI interface .

That is the network monitor can display icons to a web page link menu a UPnP print menu an install menu and a webpage link menu . Also the network monitor can display a WSD property display menu an uninstall menu an install menu a webpage link menu a WSD property display menu and a UPnP print menu . Also the network monitor can display an uninstall mend an install menu a web page link menu and a WSD property display menu . Furthermore the network monitor can display a web page link menu a UPnP print menu and an uninstall menu .

It is noted that in the IHV made driver group is an IHV made module and other modules are modules supplied with the OS as a default.

In the printer driver is a printer driver for the printer which is installed into the PC and has a plurality of modules to . The print application can execute the printing which is for example equivalent to Notepad Notepad.exe functioning as a text editor supplied with the OS Windows Vista as a default. A GDI Graphics Device Interface is a part of the OS Windows Vista . A printer queue is composed as a part of a spooler . A print job is put in a queue at the printer queue . The queuing print job is displayed in a printer queue folder a description of which is omitted herein .

The print processor is used for changing a print layout and performing a special processing on a print image. The graphics driver is configured to perform an image processing for the printing on the basis of a drawing command sent from the GDI as a core of the image processing of the printer driver and create a print control command. The UI module is configured to provide and control a user interface of the printer driver . The language monitor is configured to control data transmission as a communication I F for the data. The port monitor is configured to perform a processing of sending the data sent from the language monitor to an appropriate port and a processing of receiving the data sent from the printer via the class driver . The class driver is a low level module closest to the port. According to the present embodiment the class driver is equivalent to a driver of a printer class of WSD and UPnP and controls a port for example a network port . The printer driver is of ABC Company which is the manufacturer of the printer .

As illustrated in on the screen displayed by the network monitor icons of the PCs and and the peripheral apparatuses and existing on the network and the like are displayed. The network monitor is supplied with the OS as a default.

In an icon is an icon representing the PC . An icon is an icon representing the PC . An icon is an icon representing the printer . Icons and are icons representing the printer . Herein the icon represents the printer as a printer corresponding to WSD and the icon represents the printer corresponding to UPnP but in actuality the printers are the identical device the printer . An icon is an icon representing the printer . An icon is an icon representing the printer .

It is noted that the peripheral apparatuses displayed by the network monitor are not necessarily in a usable state after the printer driver is installed to the PC . The peripheral apparatuses include for example one in the usable state after the install of the printer driver is completed and one not in the usable state as the printer driver is not installed.

In when the user selects the icon representing the printer by using the mouse through the manual operation and then performs the right click the menus and which are examples of the operation menus are displayed. In a case where the install menu is selected the install of the printer that is the printer driver for the printer is installed into the PC . When the install of the printer driver for the printer is completed as will be described with reference to the uninstall menu is displayed and the install menu is not displayed. Then a printer icon representing that the printer is in the usable state is displayed in a printer folder which will be described. below with reference to thus establishing a state where the printing can be performed by using the printer .

In a case where the webpage link menu is selected a link to a NFL http www.abc.xxx kmmn.htm specified by a element of or a element of is performed. Then the web page related to the peripheral apparatus is opened and displayed. In the case of this example the web page of the printer this web page will be described below with reference to is opened and displayed. In a case where the WSD property display menu is selected a link to a URL http 192.168.0.100 8000 specified by a element of is performed. Then a root page of the web server for WSD in the printer this root page will be described below with reference to is opened and a setting screen of the printer is displayed. In a case where the UPnP print menu is selected a link to a URL http 192.168.0.1003678 upnp presentation index.html specified by a element of is performed. Then a root page of the web server for UPnP in the printer this root page will be described below with reference to is opened and the print setting screen for the UPnP Print is displayed.

When the user selects the icon representing the printer by using the mouse through the manual operation and then performs the right click menus and which are examples of the operation menus are displayed. In a case where the install menu is selected the install of the printer that is the printer driver for the printer is installed into the PC . When the install of the printer driver for the printer is completed as will be described below with reference to the uninstall menu is displayed and the install menu is not displayed. Then a printer icon represents a state where the printer can he utilized is displayed in the printer folder which will be described below with reference to and a state where the printing can be performed by using the printer is established.

In a case where the webpage link menu is selected a link to URL http www.abc.xxx xyz.htm specified by a element of is performed. Then the web page related to the peripheral apparatus is opened and displayed. In the case of this example the web page of the printer is opened and displayed. In a case where the WSD property display menu is selected a link to a URL http 192.168.0.101 8000 specified by a element of is performed. Then a root page of the web server for WSD in the printer is opened and the setting screen of the printer is displayed.

When the user selects the icon representing the printer by using the mouse through the manual operation and then selects and performs the right click on the icon representing the printer by using the mouse the menus and are displayed. In a case where the web page link menu is selected a link to URL http www.abc.xxx xyz.htm specified by element of is performed. Then the web page related to the peripheral apparatus is opened and displayed. In the case of this example the web page of the printer is opened and displayed. In a case where the UPnP print menu is selected a link to a URL http 192.168.0.101 3678 upnp presentation index.html specified by element of is performed. Then the root page of the web server for UPnP in the printer is opened and the print setting screen for the UPnP Print is displayed.

When the user selects the icon representing the printer by using the mouse through the manual operation and then selects and performs the right click on the icon representing the printer by using the mouse menus and which are examples of the operation menus are displayed. In a case where the install menu is selected the install of the printer that is the printer driver for the printer is installed into the PC . When the install of the printer is completed as will be described below with reference to the uninstall menu. is displayed and the install menu is not displayed. Then a printer icon representing a state where the printer can be utilized is displayed in the printer folder which will be described below with reference to and a state where the printing can be performed by using the printer is established.

In a case where the web page link menu is selected a link to a URL http www.def.xxx misachan.htm specified by a element of is performed. Then the web page related to the peripheral apparatus is opened and displayed. In the case of this example the web page of the printer is opened and displayed. In a case where the WSD property display menu is selected a link to a URL http 192.168.0.102 8000 specified by a element of is performed. Then a root page of the web server for WSD in the printer is opened and the setting screen of the printer is displayed.

When the user selects the icon representing the printer by using the mouse through the manual operation and then performs the right click menus and which are examples of the operation menus are displayed. Ina case where she web nacre link menu is selected a link to a UPI http www.def.xxx natchan.htm specified by a element of is performed. Then the web page related to the peripheral apparatus is opened and displayed. In the case of this example the web page of the printer is opened and displayed in a case where the UPnP print menu is selected a link to a URL http 192.168.0.103 3678 upnp presentation index.html specified by a element of is performed. Then the root page of the web server for UPnP in the printer is opened and the print setting screen for the UPnP Print is displayed.

In when the user selects the icon representing the printer by using the mouse through the manual operation and then performs the right click menus and which are examples of the operation menus are displayed. The menus and are the same as those illustrated in . In a case where the uninstall menu is selected the uninstall of the printer that is the printer driver for the printer is uninstalled from the PC . When the uninstall of the printer is completed the install menu is displayed and the uninstall menu is not displayed. Then the printer icon is deleted from the printer folder which will be described below with reference to and disappears.

When the user selects the icon representing the printer by using the mouse and then performs the right click menus and which are examples of the operation menus are displayed. The menus and are the same as those illustrated in .

In a case where the uninstall menu is selected the uninstall of the printer that is the printer driver for the printers is uninstalled from the PC . When the uninstall of the printer is completed the install menu is displayed and the uninstall menu is not displayed. Then the printer icon is deleted from the printer folder which will be described below with reference to and disappears.

When the user selects the icon representing the printer by using the mouse and then performs the right click the menus and which are examples of the operation menus are displayed. The menus and are the same as those illustrated in .

When the user selects the icon representing the printer by using the mouse and then performs the right click menus and which are examples of the operation menus are displayed. The menus and are the same as those illustrated in . In a case where the uninstall menu is selected the uninstall of the printer that is the printer driver for the printer is uninstalled from the PC . When the uninstall of the printer is completed the install menu is displayed and the uninstall menu is not displayed. Then the printer icon is deleted from the printer folder which will be described below with reference to and disappears.

When the user selects the icon representing the printer by using the mouse and then performs the right click menus and which are examples of the operation. menus are displayed. The menus and are the same as those illustrated in .

When the printer is connected to the network in a state where the power source of the printer is turned ON this Hello message is sent to from the printer to the PCs and and the other peripheral apparatuses to which are connected to the network . With this configuration the PCs and and the other peripheral apparatuses to are notified that the printer is connected to the network . Regarding the printers and too a similar operation is performed.

While the printer is connected to the network in a state where the power source of the printer is turned ON when the power source is turned OFF this Bye message is sent from the printer to the PCs and and the other peripheral apparatuses to which are connected to the network . With this configuration the PCs and and the other peripheral apparatuses to are notified that the printer is disconnected from the network . Regarding the printers and too a similar operation is performed.

In an N PnP name space regulates the respective definitions of N PnP. The SOAP metadata element includes the detailed information of the peripheral apparatus the printer . In a WSD friendly name element a friendly name for WSD of the peripheral apparatus the printer is set. An N PnP device category element represents a category of the peripheral apparatus the printer . Information character string that can he set in the device category element includes Computers Cameras Printers Scanners Storage FAX MFP Displays Gaming Phones and the like. shows a state where Printers are set in the device category element . In N PnP unique ID element information with which it is possible to uniquely identify the peripheral apparatus the printer is set. In an MAC address is set in the N PnP unique ID element .

With respect to a use availability element on the OS Windows of N PnP on the OS equivalent to the in use OS Windows Vista the following setting can be made as to whether or not it is possible to utilize the peripheral apparatus the printer .

In the use availability element has Available set therein and on the OS equivalent to the in use OS Windows Vista the peripheral apparatus the printer can be utilized. In an N PnP compatible ID element for example an ID representing a WSD service compatibility is set. In the print service is set in a compatible ID element set therein. In a case where the print service is set in the compatible ID element the install menu and the uninstall menu are displayed and the install or uninstall of the printer driver can be performed. The information shown in is issued from the printer to the PCs and and the other peripheral apparatuses to which are connected to the network .

In in Search Target at line upnp rootdevice representing the UPnP root device is specified. As MAN at line ssdp discover is specified According to the present embodiment SSDP regulated by Universal Plug and Play Architecture V 1.0 Simple Service Discovery Protocol is used. The PC issues a HTTP packet in a format shown in to the multicast address 239.255.255.250 at the port number 1900 . It is noted that the predetermined search request is not limited to a search request of UPnP.

In at line a URL where XML Device Description of the UPnP device supported by the printer exists is specified. At line Notification Type is set and herein it is represented that DeviceType of the peripheral apparatus the printer is Printer standardized by UPnP Forum. At line Notification Sub Type is set and herein ssdp alive representing that the peripheral apparatus the printer is in the usable state is specified. At line Unique Service Name is set and a UUID Universally Unique Identifier of the peripheral. apparatus the printer is described. According to the present embodiment SSDP regulated by Universal Plug and Play Architecture V 1.0 Simple Service Discovery Protocol is used. Therefore the printer issues the HTTP packet in a format of to the multicast address 239.255.250 at the port number 1900 . It is noted that the predetermined response is not limited to a response of UPnP.

In the UPnP device element includes the detailed information of the peripheral apparatus the printer . It is noted that this device element may be referred to as metadata in some cases. In a UPnP friendly name element the friendly name for UPnP of the peripheral apparatus the printer is set. both illustrate the information of the printer and therefore in the friendly name element and the friendly name element the identical friendly name ABC Kmmn is set. According to the present embodiment the one peripheral apparatus supporting the plurality of different protocols such as WSD and UPnP can be displayed as one peripheral apparatus on the screen displayed by the network monitor . In this manner in the peripheral apparatus where the printer supports the plurality of different protocols including WSD and UPnP the friendly name in the WSD based N PnP information and the friendly name in the UPnP based N PnP information are set to be identical with each other. This setting is one of the features of the present embodiment. On the other hand as will be described below in the related art printer the friendly name in the WSD based N PnP information and the friendly name in the UPnP based N PnP information are set to be different from each other.

An N PnP device category element represents a category of the peripheral apparatus the printer . As information character string that can be set in the N PnP device category element Printers. Printer Cameras.DigitalStillCamera MediaDevices.MusicPlayer and the like can be set. illustrates a state where Printers.Printer is set in the device category element In an N PnP unique ID element information with which it is possible to uniquely identify the peripheral apparatus the printer is set. In the MAC address is set in the unique ID element . both illustrate the information of the printer and therefore the identical MAC address is set in the unique ID element and the unique ID element .

With respect to the use availability element on the OF Windows of N PnP on the OS equivalent to the in use OS Windows Vista the following setting can be made as to whether or not it is possible to utilize the peripheral apparatus the printer .

In the use availability element has Available set therein and on the OS equivalent to the in use OS Windows Vista the peripheral apparatus the printer can be utilized. As illustrated in the UPnP device element does not include information such as the N PnP compatible ID element . This is because the printer driver is not used in the UPnP print service and the printing can be performed without using the printer driver . Therefore the install menu and the uninstall menu for the UPnP print service are not displayed. The information illustrated in is issued from the printer to the PCs and and the other peripheral. apparatuses to which are connected to the network .

In an SOAP metadata element includes the detailed information of the peripheral apparatus the printer . An N PnP device category element represents a category of the peripheral apparatus the printer . In Printers is set in the device category element . In an N PnP unique ID element information with which it is possible to uniquely identify the peripheral apparatus the printer is set. In the MAC address is set in the N PnP unique ID element .

With respect to the use availability element on the OS Windows of N PnP on the OS equivalent to the in use OS Windows Vista the following setting can he made as to whether or not it is possible to utilise the peripheral apparatus the printer .

In the use availability element has Available set therein and on the OS equivalent to the in use OS Windows Vista the peripheral apparatus the printer can be utilized. In an N PnP compatible ID element for example the ID representing the WSD service compatibility is set. In the compatible ID element has the print service set therein in a case where the compatible ID element has the print service set therein the install menu and the uninstall menu are displayed and the install or uninstall of the printer driver can he performed. The information shown in is issued from the printer to the PCs and and the other peripheral apparatuses and which are connected to the network .

In a UPnP device element includes the detailed information of the peripheral apparatus the printer . It is noted that this device element may be referred to as metadata in corns cases. An N PnP device category element represents a category of the peripheral apparatus the printer . In Printers. Printer is set in the device category element . In an N PnP unique element information with which it is possible to uniquely identify the peripheral apparatus the printer is set. In the MAC address is in the unique ID element .

With respect to a use availability element on the OS Windows of N PnP on the OS equivalent to the in use OS Windows Vista the following setting can he made as to whether or not it is possible to utilize the peripheral apparatus the printer .

In the use availability element has Available set therein and on the OS equivalent to the in use OS Windows Vista the peripheral apparatus the printer can be utilized. As illustrated in the UPnP device element does not include information such as the N PnP compatible ID element . This is because the printer driver is not used in the UPnP print service and the printing can be performed without using the printer driver . Therefore the install menu and the uninstall menu for the UPnP print service are not displayed. The information shown in is issued from the printer to the PCs and and the other peripheral apparatuses and which are connected to the network .

In the SOAP metadata element includes the detailed information of the peripheral apparatus the printer in a WSD friendly name element a friendly name for WSD of the peripheral apparatus the printer is set. The information shown in is issued from the printers to the PCs and and the other peripheral apparatuses and which are connected to the network .

In the UPnP device element includes the detailed information of the peripheral apparatus the printer . It is noted that this device element may be referred to as metadata in some cases. In a UPnP friendly name element the friendly name for UPnP of the peripheral apparatus the printer is set. The information shown in is issued from the printer to the PCs and and the other peripheral apparatuses and which are connected to the network. both illustrate the information of the printer but in the friendly name element and the friendly name element friendly names different for each protocol such as ABC Xyz WSD and ABC Xvz UPnP are set. This is because the printer is a related art printer which is not provided with the newly proposed novel functions according to the present embodiment. For example such a case is considered that the identical friendly name like ABC Xyz is set in the friendly name element and the friendly name element . In that case in the screen displayed by the network monitor the name of the icon representing the printer as the printer corresponding to WSD and the name of the icon representing the printer as the printer corresponding to UPnP are both ABC Xyz . Therefore at the time of display sorting such a problem is generated that the network monitor may malfunction or a user may be confused.

In view of the above according to the present embodiment among the printers and corresponding to UPnP and NBC regarding the printer having a function of sending a unique ID the friendly names are set identical for NBC based N PnP and UPnP based N PnP. On the other hand regarding the printer which does not have the function of sending the unique ID the friendly names are set different for WED based N PnP and UPnP based N PnP. With this configuration the network folder and the network monitor do not malfunction and it is possible to correctly display the information of the printers and .

As described above according to the present embodiment for example the unique ID elements and realize an example of the identification information. Also according to the present embodiment for example the friendly name elements and realize an example of the name information and for example the use availability elements and realize an example of the use availability information.

In the printer folder is displayed on the LCD of the PC and the Printer in a state that can be used in the PC is displayed in the printer folder . In it is represented that the printer and the printer are in a state that can be used as the printers corresponding to WSD. The printer icon represents a state in which the printing can be performed as the printer uses the WSD print service. The printer icon represents a state in which the printing can be performed as the printer uses the WSD print service. The printer icon represents a state in which the printing can be performed as the printer uses the WSD print service.

in a setting page represents a main page of The setting screen for the printer. An address display part displays a URL of this setting screen. In a printer name display unit as Printer the friendly name of the printer set in the friendly name element shown in is displayed. In a model name display unit Model the model name of the printer set in the element shown in is set. An IP address display unit IP Address displays the IP address of the printer . When a general setting button is clicked a general setting dialog for performing a general setting is displayed. It is noted that a description of the general setting dialog will be omitted herein. When a network setting button is clicked a network setting dialog for performing a network setting is displayed. It is noted that a description of the network setting dialog will be omitted herein.

in a print setting page for the UPnP Print represents a main page of the print setting screen for the UPnP Print. In an address display unit a URL for this print setting screen is displayed. In a printer name display unit Printer the friendly name of the printer set in the friendly name element shown in is displayed. In a model name display unit Model the display name of the printer set in the element of is displayed. An IP address display unit IP Address displays the It address of the printer . A printer state display unit displays a state of the printer . In it is represented that the printer is in an ON LINE state.

A file selection unit Print File is composed of a file name display unit and a reference button . As the user clicks the reference button when the file of the printing target is selected he file name is displayed on the file name display unit. . In a copy number specification unit. Copies the number of printing sheets can be specified in a range for example of 1 to 100 sheets. In a sheet type selection unit Media Type a type of sheet media can be selected for example from Plain Paper Photo Paper and OHP Sheet. In a sheet size selection unit Paper Size the sheet size can be selected for example from A4 A5 B5 and Letter. In a printing layout selection unit Layout the print layout can be selected for example from 1 up 2 up and 4 up.

In a print quality specification unit Print Quality the print quality he selected from High. Standard and Draft. In a print orientation selection unit Orientation the print orientation can be selected from Portrait and Landscape. When a print button Print is clicked by the user the printing starts. In an ink remaining amount display unit an ink remaining amount of an ink cartridge mounted to the printer is displayed. An operation guide unit displays an operation guide as a support for the user operation. By utilizing this print setting page without installing the printer driver for the printer into the PC it is possible to perform printing in a driver less manner without using the printer driver hereinafter such a printing may be abbreviated as driver less printing . In this way when the UPnP print service is used the driver less printing can be performed.

In contrast to this in the case of the printing using the WSD print service the printing via the printer driver is performed. In a case where a file opened with Notepad. Notepad.exe supplied with the OS as a default is performed the following operation procedure is adopted.

After the printer used for the printing is selected when. Print button is clicked the printing is executed. It is noted that the printer displayed in the Print dialog is the printer displayed in the printer folder .

In a main page is a main page of the printer with the model name of Kmmn made by ABC Company where the detailed information and the like related to the printer are described.

In first the PC is activated step S . Next a UPnP control stack starts the UPnP service step S and the first network control stack. issues the SSSP request for searching for the UPnP root device step S .

Next the UPnP control stack determines whether or not there is an SSDP response to the SSDP request from the printer for example any one of the printers and to step S . As a result of this determination in a case where the SSDP response from the printer exists the UPnP control stack notifies the network monitor that the printer is connected to the network. while the printer identified by the relevant SSDP response is in the state where the power source is turned ON step S . Then the UPnP control stack stands by for a certain period of time for example one minute step S and then the flow returns to step S.

In a case where the printer is connected to the network while the power source is turned ON where the power source of the printer is turned OFF or where the printer is disconnected from the network in step S it is determined that the SSDP response from the printer does not exist. After that the UPnP control stack notifies the network monitor that the printer is disconnected from the network step S and the flow advances to step S.

On the other hand while the printer is in the activated state step S when the printer receives the SSDP request issued from the PC in step S step S the printer performs the following processing. That is the printer determines whether or not the SSDP request received in step S is matched with the request which is supported by itself the SSSP request for searching for the UPnP root device step S . As a result of this determination in a case where the SSDP request received in step S is matched with the request which is supported by itself the printer issues the SSDP response to the PC which has issued the SSDP request step S . After that the flow is returned to a waiting state to receive the SSDP request in step S.

On the other hand in step S in a case where the SSDP request received in step S is not matched with the request which is supported by itself the flow returns to step S.

In this manner in a case where the UPnP compatible device exists on the network while the power source is turned ON the network monitor is notified that the relevant UPnP compatible device is connected. With this configuration the network monitor can control the UPnP compatible device.

In when the printer corresponding to WSD is connected to the network while the power source is turned ON step S the relevant printer issues such a Hello message of WS Discovery as shown in step S After that the printer corresponding to WSD sends such WSD based N PnP information as shown in or to the PC step S .

On the other hand when the printer corresponding to UPnP is connected to the network while the power source is turned ON step S the following processing is performed. That is as described in step S of the network monitor is notified that the printer corresponding to UPnP is connected to the network while the power source is turned ON step S . After that the printer corresponding to UPnP sends the UPnP based N PnP information shown in or to the PC step S .

As described above according to the present embodiment for example by performing the processing in step S the examples of the sending unit the second sending unit and the third sending unit are realized.

On the other hand after the PC executes the checking processing for the printer corresponding to WSD step S the PC executes the checking processing for the device corresponding to UPnP step S . Next the PC determines whether or not the variable WSD Available is 1 step S . In this way according to the present embodiment for example by performing the processing in steps S and the one examples of the obtaining unit the second obtaining unit the third obtaining unit are realized.

As a result of this determination in a case where the variable WSD Available is 1 the PC determines whether or not the variable UPnP Available is 1 step S .

As a result of this determination in a case where the variable UPnP Available is 1 the PC determines whether or not npnp UniqueId is the same as npnp X uniqueId step S That is it is determined whether or not the MAC address set in the unique ID element shown in is the same as the MAC address set in the unique ID element shown in step S . In this way according to the present embodiment for example by performing the processing in step S the one example of the determination unit is realized.

As a result of this determination in a case where npnp UniqueId is the same as npnp X uniqueId the PC integrates the menu for WSD with the menu for UPnP step S . Then through the network monitor the PC displays the printer corresponding to WSD and the printer corresponding to UPnP as one device step S and the flow returns to step S. In this way according to the present embodiment for example by performing the processing in step S the one example of the display unit is realized.

As shown in the menus for WSD include the install menus and the uninstall menus and the WSD property display menus and and the webpage link menus and . On the other hand as illustrated in the menus for UPnP include the UPnP print menus and and the webpage link menus and . In the web page link menu of the menu for WSD and the web page link menu of the menu for UPnP are common and therefore these menus are collectively displayed in a state of being integrated as the one webpage link menu .

In step S in a case where it is determined that npnp Uniqueid and npnp X uniqueId are different from each other the PC performs the following processing. That is through the network monitor the PC individually displays the printer corresponding to WSD and the printer corresponding to UPnP as independent two devices step S and the flow returns to step S. In this way according to the present embodiment for example by performing the processing in step S the one example of the display unit is realized.

In step S in a case where it is determined that the variable UPnP Available is not 1 but 0 through the network monitor the PC displays the printer corresponding to WSD as one device. Then through the network monitor the PC deletes the display of the printer corresponding to UPnP which was displayed but now disconnected from the network step S and the flow returns to step S.

In step S when it is determined that the variable WSD Available is not 1 but 0 the PC determines whether or not the variable UPnP Available is 1 step S . As a result of this determination in a case where the variable UPnP Available is 1 through the network monitor the PC displays the printer corresponding to UPnP as one device. Then the PC deletes the display of the device corresponding to WSD which was displayed but now disconnected from the network step S and the flow returns to step S.

On the other hand in step S in a case where it is determined that the variable UPnP Available is not 1 but 0 the flow returns to step S.

When the printer corresponding to WSD is connected to the network while the power source is turned ON in a case where the power source is turned OFF step S the printer issues the Bye message of WS Discovery shown in step S . On the other hand when the printer corresponding to UPnP is connected to the network while the power source is turned ON in a case where the power source is turned OFF or when the printer corresponding to UPnP is disconnected from the network step S the following processing is performed. That is as described in step S of the network monitor is notified that the relevant printer corresponding to UPnP is disconnected from the network step S . Then the processing in step S is executed.

Herein if the peripheral apparatus is the printer in step S of the flowchart shown in through the network monitor the printer corresponding to WSD and the device corresponding to UPnP are displayed as one device. By mounting such a technology newly disclosed herein to the peripheral apparatus the printer for example the peripheral apparatus provided with the plurality of different protocols such as WSD and UPnP can he displayed as one device in the form of the icon through the network monitor . With this configuration it is possible to realize the peripheral apparatus control system provided with the appropriate user interface which does not cause the misunderstanding or confusion of the user.

In addition if the peripheral apparatus is the printer in step S of the flowchart shown in through the network monitor the printer corresponding to WSD is displayed as ore device. Also if the peripheral. apparatus is the printer in step S of the flowchart shown in through the network monitor the printer corresponding to UPnP is displayed as one device. Furthermore if the peripheral apparatus is the printer in step S of the flowchart shown in through the network monitor the printer corresponding to WSD and the device corresponding to UPnP are separately displayed as one independent two devices.

in when the checking processing for the device corresponding to WSD is started step on the PC determines whether or not the device corresponding to WSD exists on the network step S . As a result of this determination in a case where the device corresponding to WSD does not exist on the network the flow advances to step S which will be described below. On the other hand in a case where the device corresponding to WSD exists on the network the PC searches the WSD based metadata element shown in step S . To be more specific the PC checks the unique ID element shown in and the unique ID element npnp UniqueId and the use availability element npnp UseDeviceOnWindows shown in the use availability element .

Then the PC determines whether or not the unique It element exists in the WSD based metadata element step S . As a result of this determination in a case where the unique ID element exists in the WSD based metadata element the PC saves the information set in the unique ID element in the storage medium step S . Then the flow advances to step S.

On the other hand in a case where the unique ID element does not exist in the WSD based metadata element the processing in step S is omitted and the flow advances to step S.

Then the PC determines whether or not the use availability element exists in the WSD based metadata element step S . As a result of this determination in a case where the use availability element does not exist in the WSD based metadata element the flow advances to step S which will be described below.

On the other hand in a case were the use availability element exists in the WSD based metadata element the PC determines whether or not the use availability element has Available set therein. step S . As a result of this determination in a case where the use availability element does not have Available set therein the flow advances to step S which will be described below. On the other hand in a case where the use availability element has Available set therein the PC sets in the variable WSD Available step S .

Then the PC creates such an install menu as the install menu of or such an uninstall menu as the uninstall menu of step S . Next the PC creates such a web page link menu as the webpage link menu of step S and further creates such a WSD property display menu as the WSD property display menu of step S . Then while returning back to the flowchart of the processing in step S of is performed.

In a case where the device corresponding to WSD does not exist step S where the use availability element does not exist step S and where the use availability element has Unavailable set therein step S the PC performs the following processing. That is the PC sets 0 in the variable WSD Available step S . Then while returning back to the flowchart of the processing in step S of is performed.

In when the checking processing for the device corresponding to UPnP is started. step S the PC determines whether or not the device corresponding to UPnP exists on the network step S . As a result of this determination in a case where the device corresponding to UPnP does not exist on the network the flow advances to step S. On the other hand in a case where the device corresponding to UPnP exists on the network the PC searches the UPnP device element shown in step S . To he more specific the PC checks the unique ID element shown in and the unique ID element npnp X uniqueId and the use availability element npnp X useDeviceOnWindows shown in the use availability element .

Then the PC determines whether or not the unique PD element exists in the UPnP device element step S . As a result of this determination in a case where the unique ID element exists the UPnP device element the PC saves the information set in the unique ID element in the storage medium step S . Then the flow advances to step S.

on the other hand in a case where the unique ID element does not exist the UPnP device element step S is omitted and the flow advances to step S.

Then the PC determines whether or not the use availability element exists in the UPnP device element step S . As a result of this determination in a case where the use availability element does not exist in the UPnP device element the flow advances to step S which will be described below.

On the other hand in a case where the use availability element exists the UPnP device element the PC determines whether or not the use availability element has Available set therein step S . As a result of this determination in a case where the use availability element does not have Available set herein the flow advances to step S which will be described below. On the other hand in a case where the use availability element has Available set therein the PC sets 1 in the variable UPnP Available step S .

Then the PC creates such a web page link menu as the webpage link menu of step S and further creates such a UPnP print menu as the UPnP print menu of step S . Then while returning back to the flowchart of the processing in step S of is performed.

In addition in a case where the device corresponding to UPnP does not exist step S where the use availability element does not exist step S and where the use availability element has Unavailable set therein step S the PC performs the following processing. That is the PC sets 0 in the variable UPnP Available step S . Then while returning back to the flowchart of the processing in step S of is performed.

For example in a case where the OS of the PC is set to have such a mode that the device corresponding to UPnP is not used by the user and only the device corresponding to WSD is used by the user for example the following setting is performed on the printer . That is Available is set in the use availability element of the WSD based N PnP information shown in . Furthermore Unavailable is set in the use availability element of the UPnP based N PnP information shown in . With this configuration even when the unique ID elements and do not exist through the network monitor it is possible to display the printer as one device with the icon . In the printer the following setting is presumed to be performed. Thetis the use availability element where Available is set in the metadata element of the WSD based N PnP information of is provided. Furthermore the use availability element where Unavailable is set in the device element of the UPnP based N PnP information of is provided. In such a case the unique ID element does not exist in the metadata element and the device element but through the network monitor it is possible to display the printer as one device with the icon . In this case as the icon is not displayed it is possible to realize the peripheral apparatus control system provided with an appropriate user interface which can improve the user operability and which does not cause the misunderstanding or confusion of the user with the improved user operability.

Subsequently a second exemplary embodiment of the present invention will be described in the description according to the present embodiment for example the same parts as those according to the above described first exemplary embodiment are allocated with the same reference numerals as those allocated to the parts in and a detailed description will be omitted.

In in a case where the WSD compatible device display check box is ON in a case where the box is checked through the network monitor the device corresponding to WSD is displayed on the screen. On the other hand in a case where the WSD compatible device display check box is OFF in a case where the box is not checked through the network monitor the device corresponding to WSD is not displayed on the screen. In a case where the UPnP compatible device display check box is ON in a case where the box is checked through the network monitor the device corresponding to UPnP is displayed on the screen. On the ocher hand the UPnP compatible device display check box is OFF in a case where the box is not checked through the network monitor the device corresponding to UPnP is not displayed on the screen.

In a case where the WSD compatible device display check box shown in and the UPnP compatible device display check box are both ON the same display contents shown in are obtained. In a case where the WSD compatible device display check box and the UPnP compatible device display check box are both in the OFF state through the network monitor the icons and are not displayed on the screen.

In when the checking processing for the device corresponding to WSD is started step S the PC checks the WSD compatible device display check box step S . Then the PC determines whether or not the WSD compatible device display check box is ON step S and as a result of this determination in a case where the WSD compatible device display check box is ON the PC performs the WSD device check execution processing step S . In this WSD device check execution processing a processing in steps S to S of is performed. Then while returning back to the flowchart of the processing in step S of .

On the other hand in step S in a case where the WSD compatible device display check box is OFF the PC sets 0 in the variable WSD Available step S . Then while returning back to the flowchart of the processing in step S of is performed.

In when the checking processing for the device corresponding to UPnP is started step S the PC a checks the UPnP compatible device display check box step S . Then the PC determines whether or not the UPnP compatible device display check box is ON step S . As a result of this determination in a case where the UPnP compatible device display check box is ON the PC performs the UPnP device check execution Processing step S . In this UPnP device check processing a processing in steps S to S of is performed. Then while returning back to the flowchart of the processing in step S of is performed.

On the other hand in step S in a case where the UPnP compatible device display check box is OFF the PC sets 0 in the variable UPnP Available step S Then while returning back to the flowchart of the processing in step S of is performed.

As described above according to the present embodiment for example in a case where the WSD compatible device display check box and the UPnP compatible device display check box are OFF in steps and 0 is set in the variable UPnP Available. Then by executing the flowchart of through the execution of the display shown in the one example of the display unit is realized.

Hereinafter an example of a data processing program that can be read out by the peripheral apparatus control system according to the above described first and second embodiments will be described.

In a storage medium is composed for example of hard disk. A directory information management unit is configured to manage data depending on the various programs. A program storage unit stores a program for installing various programs into the information processing apparatus a program for decompressing a program when the program to be installed is compressed and the like. The respective functions that can be realized by the executions of the respective flowcharts of and described according to the first and second embodiments may also be realized by a program externally installed. Then in that case the present invention is applied even in a case where an information group including the program is supplied to the PC or the peripheral apparatus by way of a storage medium including a CD ROM a flash memory a flexible disk or the like or from the external storage medium via a network.

As described above the embodiments of the present invention will be achieved when a storage medium recording a program code of software which realizes the functions of the above described respective embodiments is supplied to a system or an apparatus. Then the embodiments of the present invention will also be achieved when a computer of the system or the apparatus reads out and executes the program code stored in the storage medium. In this case the program code read out from the storage medium itself realizes the novel functions of the present invention and the storage medium storing the program code constitutes the present invention. As the storage medium for supplying the program code for example a flexible disk a hard disk drive an optical disk an opto magnetic disk a CD ROM a CD R a magnet tape a non volatile memory card a ROM an EEPROM or the like can he used. Also the functions of the above described embodiments are realized by executing the program code read out by the computer. Furthermore the present invention includes a case where a part or all of the actual process is performed by the OS or the like which is running on the computer on the basis of the instruction of the program code and the functions of the above described embodiments are realized by the processing.

It is noted that according to the above described respective embodiments as an example of the application the network monitor shown in is described but the application is not limited to the above. For example an arbitrary application for installing a driver for the peripheral apparatus into the PC can also realize the same functions as the above described application and is effective.

In addition according to the above described respective embodiments as an example of the peripheral. apparatus device the color inkjet printer is described but the peripheral apparatus device is not limited to the color inkjet printer. For example an arbitrary printer such as a monochrome LBP an MFP and the like can be used as the peripheral apparatus device . Furthermore the peripheral apparatus device is not limited to the printer and for example any one of a copier a facsimile a scanner a digital camera and an apparatus provided with these multiple functions may be used as the peripheral apparatus device .

In addition according to the above described respective embodiments as the information processing apparatus the personal computer PC is described but the information processing apparatus is not limited to the above. For example an arbitrary information processing apparatus terminal which can be used in a similar manner such as a DVD player a game a set top box an internet home appliance or the like can be used and is effective.

In addition according to the above described respective embodiments as the OS the case of using the OS equivalent to Windows Vista is described as an example. However the OS is not limited to the above and an arbitrary OS can be used.

In addition according to the above described respective embodiments as the network the case of using Ethernet is described as an example. However the network is not limited to the above and another arbitrary network can be used. Furthermore as the interface between the PCs and and the printers and to the case of using. Ethernet is described as an example. However the interface is not limited to the above. For example an arbitrary interface such as a wireless LAN IEEE1394 or Bluetooth can be used.

In addition according to the above described respective embodiments as an example of the web service protocol WSD and UPnP are described but the protocol is not limited to the above. For example an arbitrary protocol such as an IHV unique protocol can be used.

In addition according to the above described respective embodiments as the information set in the unique ID element the MAC address is described as an example. However the information set in the unique ID is not limited to the above. For example arbitrary information with which the peripheral apparatus can be uniquely identified such as an IP address can be used as the information set in the unique ID.

According to the present embodiment in a case where pieces of the identification information sent by using different protocols are identical with each other the devices sending the pieces of the identification information are determined to be the same and the information pieces related to the devices are integrated to be displayed on the display apparatus. Therefore it is possible to facilitate the user to recognize the devices corresponding to the different protocols as the one device.

The information processing apparatus the respective units constituting the device and the respective steps of the device information display method according to the above described embodiments of the present invention can be realized as the program stored in the RAM the ROM and the like of the computer. This program and the computer readable recording medium which records the program are included in the present invention.

In addition the present invention can also be realized for example as embodiments of a system an apparatus a method a program a computer readable storage medium or the like. To be more specific the present invention may be applied to a system composed of a plurality of apparatuses and in addition may also be applied to an apparatus composed of one device.

it is noted that the present invention includes a case where the program of the software realizing the functions of the above described embodiments the program corresponding to the flowcharts shown in and according to the embodiments is directly supplied to a system or an apparatus and a case where the program is supplied remotely. Then the present invention also includes a case where a computer of the system or the apparatus reads out and executes the supplied program code the functions are achieved.

Therefore in order to realize the function processing of the present invention by the computer the program code installed into the computer itself also realizes the present invention. That is the present invention also includes the computer the program itself for realizing the function processing of the present invention.

In that case as long as the functions of the program are provided such modes may he adopted including an object code a program executed by an interpreter script data supplied to the OS and the like.

As the computer readable recording medium for supplying the program for example a flexible disk a hard disk drive an optical disk an onto magnetic disk an MO a CD ROM a CD R a CD RW and the like may he used. Also a magnetic tape a non volatile memory card a ROM a DVD DVD ROM DVD R and the like may also he used.

Moreover as a method of supplying the program by using a browser of the client computer a connection is made to a web site of the internet. Then the program can also be supplied in such a manner that the computer program of the present invention itself or a compressed file including an automatic install function is downloaded from the web site onto a computer readable recording medium such as a hard disk drive.

In addition the program can also be supplied in such a manner that the program code constituting the program according to the embodiments of the present invention is divided into files and the respective files are downloaded from different web sites. That is a WWW server for allowing a plurality of users to download the program files for realizing the function processing of the present invention by the computer is also included in the present invention.

In addition the program according to the embodiments of the present invention is encrypted stored into a computer readable storage medium such as a CD ROM and distributed to users and then users who clear a predetermined condition are allowed to download key information for decrypting the encryption from a web site via the internet. Then by using the downloaded key information the encrypted program may be executed and installed into the computer to realize the functions of the embodiments.

In addition as the computer executes the read out program the functions of the above described embodiments are realized. Moreover a part or all of the actual process is performed by the OS or the like which is running on the computer on the basis of the instruction of the program code and the functions of the above described embodiments may be realized by the processing.

Furthermore in one embodiment the program code read out from the computer readable recording medium may he written in a memory that is provided to a function expansion board inserted in the computer or a function expansion unit connected to the computer. After that on the basis of the instruction of the program code a CPU or the like provided to the function expansion board or the function expansion unit may perform a part or all of the actual process. Through the processing the function of the above described embodiments may be realized.

While the present invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the disclosed exemplary embodiments. The scope of the following claims is to he accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all modifications and equivalent structures and functions.

