---

title: Inhibitors of the renal outer medullary potassium channel
abstract: This invention relates to compounds of Formula I having the following general structure:

Z—Y—(CH)—R—(CH)—Y—Z

wherein R represents a fused bicyclic or spirocyclic aliphatic diamine and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof which are inhibitors of the Renal Outer Medullary Potassium (ROMK) channel (Kir1.1). The compounds are useful as diuretics and natriuretics and therefore are useful for the therapy and prophylaxis of disorders resulting from excessive salt and water retention, including cardiovascular diseases such as hypertension and chronic and acute heart failure.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09493474&OS=09493474&RS=09493474
owner: Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp.
number: 09493474
owner_city: Rahway
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121025
---
This application is a U.S. National Phase application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT Application No. PCT US12 061896 filed Oct. 25 2012 which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 553 383 filed Oct. 31 2011.

The Renal Outer Medullary Potassium ROMK channel Kir1.1 see e.g. Ho K. et al. Nature 1993 362 6415 p. 31 8.1 2 and Shuck M. E. et al. J Biol Chem 1994 269 39 p. 24261 70 is a member of the inward rectifier family of potassium channels expressed in two regions of the kidney thick ascending loop of Henle TALH and cortical collecting duct CCD see Hebert S. C. et al. Physiol Rev 2005 85 1 p. 319 713 . At the TALH ROMK participates in potassium recycling across the luminal membrane which is critical for the function of the Na K 2Cl co transporter the rate determining step for salt reuptake in this part of the nephron. At the CCD ROMK provides a pathway for potassium secretion that is tightly coupled to sodium uptake through the amiloride sensitive sodium channel see Reinalter S. C. et al. Acta Physiol Scand 2004 181 4 p. 513 21 and Wang W. Curr Opin Nephrol Hypertens 2004 13 5 p. 549 55 . Selective inhibitors of the ROMK channel also referred to herein as inhibitors of ROMK or ROMK inhibitors are predicted to represent novel diuretics for the treatment of hypertension and other conditions where treatment with a diuretic would be beneficial with potentially reduced liabilities i.e. hypo or hyperkalemia new onset of diabetes dyslipidemia over the currently used clinical agents see Lifton R. P. A. G. Gharavi and D. S. Geller Cell 2001 104 4 p. 545 56 . Human genetics Ji W. et al. Nat Genet 2008 40 5 p. 592 9 and Tobin M. D. et al. Hypertension 2008 51 6 p. 1658 64 and genetic ablation of ROMK in rodents see Lorenz J. N. et al. J Biol Chem 2002 277 40 p. 37871 80 and Lu M. et al. J Biol Chem 2002 277 40 p. 37881 7 support these expectations. To our knowledge the first small molecule selective inhibitors of ROMK were reported from work done at Vanderbilt University as described in Lewis L. M. et al. 7.1 Mol Pharmacol 2009 76 5 p. 1094 1103. However continuing discovery of selective small molecule inhibitors of ROMK is still needed for the development of new treatments for hypertension and related disorders.

The present invention provides compounds of Formula I having the general structure below Z Y CH R CH Y Z I wherein R represents a fused bicyclic or spirocyclic aliphatic diamine and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof. The compounds of Formula I are inhibitors of the ROMK Kir1.1 channel and can thus act as diuretics and natriuretics and are valuable pharmaceutically active compounds for the therapy and prophylaxis of diseases including but not limited to cardiovascular diseases such as hypertension and conditions resulting from excessive salt and water retention. Methods of treatment comprising administering a therapeutically or prophylactically effective amount of a compound of Formula I to a patient in need of a diuretic and or natriuretic agent are also provided. Compounds of Formula I can be used in combination with other therapeutically effective agents including other drugs useful for the treatment of hypertension and conditions resulting from excessive salt and water retention. The invention furthermore relates to processes for preparing compounds of Formula I and pharmaceutical compositions which comprise any of the compounds of Formula I.

The present invention provides compounds of Formula I having the general structure below Z Y CH R CH Y Z I and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein n1 and n2 can be individually either 0 or 1 R represents a fused bicyclic or spirocyclic aliphatic diamine having one of the following structures 

In Embodiment A are compounds of Formula I and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein R is R I 

In Embodiment B are compounds of Formula I and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein R is R II 

In Embodiment C are compounds of Formula I and Embodiments A and B and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein 

In Embodiment D are compounds of Formula I and Embodiments A C and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein 

In Embodiment E are compounds of Formula I and Embodiments A D and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein R is 

In Embodiment F are compounds of Formula I and Embodiments A D and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein R is 

In Embodiment G are compounds of Formula I and Embodiments A D and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein R is 

In Embodiment H are compounds of Formula I and Embodiments A D and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein R is 

In Embodiment I are compounds of Formula I and Embodiments A D and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein R is 

In Embodiment J are compounds of Formula I and Embodiments A D and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein R is 

In Embodiment K are compounds of Formula I and Embodiments A D and pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof wherein R is 

The following select embodiments of Formula I are exemplified herein. These compounds and their pharmaceutically acceptable salts form individual embodiments of the present invention 

All structural Formulas and embodiments described herein include the pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

As used herein except if noted otherwise alkyl is intended to include both branched and straight chain saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon groups having the specified number of carbon atoms. Commonly used abbreviations for alkyl groups are used throughout the specification. For example the term Calkyl or C Calkyl means linear or branched chain alkyl groups including all isomers having the specified number of carbon atoms and includes all of the hexyl and pentyl isomers as well as n iso sec and tert butyl butyl s butyl i butyl t butyl Bu butyl n and i propyl Pr propyl ethyl Et and methyl Me .

 Cycloalkyl is a cyclized alkyl ring having the indicated number of carbon atoms. Examples of cycloalkyl include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl. The cycloalkyl ring may be substituted on any available carbon which results in the creation of a stable structure including the ring carbon which serves as the point of attachment to the rest of the molecule.

Unless expressly depicted or described otherwise variables depicted in a structural formula with a floating bond such as each of substituents R R R R R Rand Rin structural Formula I are permitted on any available carbon atom in the ring to which each is attached provided they are not on a carbon at the spiro junction within R I. For purposes of exemplification and without limitation if the structure was as follows 

Optional substitution on a chemical moiety encompasses the presence or absence of substituents on the specified moiety. For example Calkyl optionally substituted with 1 3 of F describes unsubstituted Calkyl e.g. CH CHCH CH CH or CH CH or fluoro substituted Calkyl including but not limited to CHF CHF CF or CHCF.

The present invention encompasses all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of Formula I. Centers of asymmetry that are present in the compounds of Formula I can all independently of one another have R configuration or S configuration. When bonds to the chiral carbon are depicted as straight lines in the structural Formulas of the invention it is understood that both the R and S configurations of the chiral carbon or when a compound name is recited without a chiral designation for a chiral carbon it is understood that both the R and S configurations of the chiral carbon and hence both enantiomers and mixtures thereof are embraced within the Formula or by the name. The production of specific stereoisomers or mixtures thereof may be identified in the Examples where such stereoisomers or mixtures were obtained but this in no way limits the inclusion of all stereoisomers and mixtures thereof from being within the scope of this invention.

The invention includes all possible enantiomers and diastereomers and mixtures of two or more stereoisomers for example mixtures of enantiomers and or diastereomers in all ratios. Thus enantiomers are a subject of the invention in enantiomerically pure form both as levorotatory and as dextrorotatory antipodes in the form of racemates and in the form of mixtures of the two enantiomers in all ratios. In the case of a cis trans isomerism the invention includes both the cis form and the trans form as well as mixtures of these forms in all ratios. The preparation of individual stereoisomers can be carried out if desired by separation of a mixture by customary methods for example by chromatography or crystallization by the use of stereochemically uniform starting materials for the synthesis or by stereoselective synthesis. Optionally a derivatization can be carried out before a separation of stereoisomers. The separation of a mixture of stereoisomers can be carried out at an intermediate step during the synthesis of any compound of Formula I or it can be done on a final racemic product. Absolute stereochemistry may be determined by X ray crystallography of crystalline products or crystalline intermediates which are derivatized if necessary with a reagent containing a stereogenic center of known configuration. Where compounds of this invention are capable of tautomerization all individual tautomers as well as mixtures thereof are included in the scope of this invention. The present invention includes all such isomers as well as salts solvates including hydrates and solvated salts of such racemates enantiomers diastereomers and tautomers and mixtures thereof.

Reference to the compounds of Formula I herein encompasses the compounds of Formula I and all embodiments thereof. Reference to the compounds of this invention as those of a specific formula or embodiment e.g. Formula I and embodiments thereof or any other generic structural formula or specific compound described or claimed herein is intended to encompass the specific compound or compounds falling within the scope of the formula or embodiment including salts thereof particularly pharmaceutically acceptable salts solvates of such compounds and solvated salt forms thereof where such forms are possible unless specified otherwise.

In the compounds of Formula I the atoms may exhibit their natural isotopic abundances or one or more of the atoms may be artificially enriched in a particular isotope having the same atomic number but an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number predominantly found in nature. The present invention is meant to include all suitable isotopic variations of the compounds of Formula I. For example different isotopic forms of hydrogen H include protium H and deuterium H . Protium is the predominant hydrogen isotope found in nature. Enriching for deuterium may afford certain therapeutic advantages such as increasing in vivo half life or reducing dosage requirements or may provide a compound useful as a standard for characterization of biological samples. Isotopically enriched compounds within Formula I can be prepared without undue experimentation by conventional techniques well known to those skilled in the art or by processes analogous to those described in the Schemes and Examples herein using appropriate isotopically enriched reagents and or intermediates.

When the compounds of Formula I contain one or more acidic or basic groups the invention also includes the corresponding pharmaceutically acceptable salts. Thus the compounds of Formula I which contain acidic groups can be used according to the invention for example as alkali metal salts alkaline earth metal salts or as ammonium salts. Examples of such salts include but are not limited to sodium salts potassium salts calcium salts magnesium salts or salts with ammonia or organic amines such as for example ethylamine ethanolamine triethanolamine or amino acids. Compounds of Formula I which contain one or more basic groups i.e. groups which can be protonated can be used according to the invention in the form of their acid addition salts with inorganic or organic acids as for example but not limited to salts with hydrogen chloride hydrogen bromide phosphoric acid sulfuric acid nitric acid benzenesulfonic acid methanesulfonic acid p toluenesulfonic acid naphthalenedisulfonic acids oxalic acid acetic acid trifluoroacetic acid tartaric acid lactic acid salicylic acid benzoic acid formic acid propionic acid pivalic acid diethylacetic acid malonic acid succinic acid pimelic acid fumaric acid maleic acid malic acid sulfaminic acid phenylpropionic acid gluconic acid ascorbic acid isonicotinic acid citric acid adipic acid etc. If the compounds of Formula I simultaneously contain acidic and basic groups in the molecule the invention also includes in addition to the salt forms mentioned inner salts or betaines zwitterions . Salts can be obtained from the compounds of Formula I by customary methods which are known to the person skilled in the art for example by combination with an organic or inorganic acid or base in a solvent or dispersant or by anion exchange or cation exchange from other salts. The present invention also includes all salts of the compounds of Formula I which owing to low physiological compatibility are not directly suitable for use in pharmaceuticals but which can be used for example as intermediates for chemical reactions or for the preparation of physiologically i.e. pharmaceutically acceptable salts.

Furthermore compounds of the present invention may exist in amorphous form and or one or more crystalline forms and as such all amorphous and crystalline forms and mixtures thereof of the compounds of Formula I are intended to be included within the scope of the present invention. In addition some of the compounds of the instant invention may form solvates with water i.e. a hydrate or common organic solvents. Such solvates and hydrates particularly the pharmaceutically acceptable solvates and hydrates of the instant compounds are likewise encompassed within the scope of this invention along with un solvated and anhydrous forms.

Any pharmaceutically acceptable pro drug modification of a compound of this invention which results in conversion in vivo to a compound within the scope of this invention is also within the scope of this invention. For example esters can optionally be made by esterification of an available carboxylic acid group or by formation of an ester on an available hydroxy group in a compound. Similarly labile amides can be made. Pharmaceutically acceptable esters or amides of the compounds of this invention may be prepared to act as pro drugs which can be hydrolyzed back to an acid or COO depending on the pH of the fluid or tissue where conversion takes place or hydroxy form particularly in vivo and as such are encompassed within the scope of this invention. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable pro drug modifications include but are not limited to Calkyl esters and Calkyl substituted with phenyl esters.

Accordingly the compounds within the generic structural formulas embodiments and specific compounds described and claimed herein encompass salts all possible stereoisomers and tautomers physical forms e.g. amorphous and crystalline forms solvate and hydrate forms thereof and any combination of these forms as well as the salts thereof pro drug forms thereof and salts of pro drug forms thereof where such forms are possible unless specified otherwise.

The compounds of Formula I according to the invention are inhibitors of ROMK and are therefore useful as diuretic and or natriuretic agents. ROMK inhibitors help to increase urination and increase urine volume and also to prevent or reduce reabsorption of sodium in the kidneys leading to increased excretion of sodium and water. Therefore the compounds are useful for treatment or prophylaxis of disorders that benefit from increased excretion of water and sodium from the body. Accordingly the present invention provides a method for inhibiting ROMK comprising administering a compound of Formula I in a ROMK inhibitory effective amount to a patient in need thereof. The inhibition of ROMK by the compounds of Formula I can be examined for example in any of the activity assays described below. The invention also provides a method for causing diuresis natriuresis or both comprising administering a compound of Formula I in a therapeutically effective amount to a patient in need thereof.

Due to their activity as diuretics and natriuretic agents this invention further provides the use of compounds of Formula I in methods for treatment of prevention of or reduction of risk for developing medical conditions that benefit from increased excretion of water and sodium such as but not limited to one or more of hypertension heart failure both acute and chronic the latter also known as congestive heart failure and or other conditions resulting from excessive salt and water retention. It further includes the use of the compounds of Formula I in methods for treatment of prevention of or reduction of risk for developing one or more disorders such as pulmonary arterial hypertension PAH cardiovascular disease diabetes mellitus diabetes insipidus post operative volume overload endothelial dysfunction diastolic dysfunction systolic dysfunction stable and unstable angina pectoris thromboses restenosis myocardial infarction stroke cardiac insufficiency pulmonary hypertonia atherosclerosis hepatic cirrhosis ascitis pre eclampsia cerebral edema nephropathy glomerulonephritis nephrotic syndrome acute and chronic kidney insufficiency acute tubular necrosis hypercalcemia idiopathic edema Dent s disease Meniere s disease edetamous states glaucoma benign intracranial hypertension and other conditions for which a diuretic would have therapeutic or prophylactic benefit. The compounds of the invention can be administered to a patient having or at risk of having one or more conditions for which a diuretic would have therapeutic or prophylactic benefit such as those described herein.

In general compounds that are ROMK inhibitors can be identified as those compounds which when tested have an ICof 5 M or less preferably 1 M or less and more preferably 0.25 M or less in at least one of the following assays 1 the Electrophysiology Assay and 2 the Thallium Flux Assay. These assays are described in more detail further below.

The dosage amount of the compound to be administered depends on the individual case and is as is customary to be adapted to the individual circumstances to achieve an optimum effect. Thus it depends on the nature and the severity of the disorder to be treated and also on the sex age weight and individual responsiveness of the human or animal to be treated on the efficacy and duration of action of the compounds used on whether the therapy is acute or chronic or prophylactic or on whether other active compounds are administered in addition to the compounds of Formula I. A consideration of these factors is well within the purview of the ordinarily skilled clinician for the purpose of determining the therapeutically effective or prophylactically effective dosage amount needed to prevent counter or arrest the progress of the condition. It is expected that the compound will be administered chronically on a daily basis for a length of time appropriate to treat or prevent the medical condition relevant to the patient including a course of therapy lasting days months years or the life of the patient.

In general a daily dose of approximately 0.001 to 100 mg kg preferably 0.001 to 30 mg kg in particular 0.001 to 10 mg kg in each case mg per kg of bodyweight is appropriate for administration to an adult weighing approximately 75 kg in order to obtain the desired results. The daily dose is preferably administered in a single dose or can be divided into several for example two three or four individual doses and may be for example but not limited to 0.1 mg 0.25 mg 0.5 mg 0.75 mg 1 mg 1.25 mg 2 mg 2.5 mg 5 mg 10 mg 20 mg 40 mg 50 mg 75 mg 100 mg 125 mg 150 mg 175 mg 200 mg etc. on a daily basis. In some cases depending on the individual response it may be necessary to deviate upwards or downwards from the given daily dose. Furthermore the compound may be formulated for immediate or modified release such as extended or controlled release.

The term patient includes animals preferably mammals and especially humans who use the instant active agents for the prophylaxis or treatment of a medical condition. Administering of the drug to the patient includes both self administration and administration to the patient by another person. The patient may be in need of treatment for an existing disease or medical condition or may desire prophylactic treatment to prevent or reduce the risk for developing said disease or medical condition or developing long term complications from a disease or medical condition.

The term therapeutically effective amount is intended to mean that amount of a drug or pharmaceutical agent that will elicit the biological or medical response of a tissue a system animal or human that is being sought by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician. A prophylactically effective amount is intended to mean that amount of a pharmaceutical drug that will prevent or reduce the risk of occurrence of the biological or medical event that is sought to be prevented in a tissue a system animal or human by a researcher veterinarian medical doctor or other clinician. It is understood that a specific daily dosage amount can simultaneously be both a therapeutically effective amount e.g. for treatment of hypertension and a prophylactically effective amount e.g. for prevention or reduction of risk of myocardial infarction or prevention and reduction of risk for complications related to hypertension.

In the methods of treatment of this invention the ROMK inhibitors may be administered via any suitable route of administration such as for example orally parenterally or rectally in dosage unit formulations containing conventional non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable carriers adjuvants and vehicles. The term parenteral as used herein includes subcutaneous injections intravenous intramuscular intrasternal injection or infusion techniques. Oral formulations are preferred for treatment of chronic indications such as hypertension or chronic heart failure particularly solid oral dosage units such as pills tablets or capsules and more particularly tablets. IV dosing is preferred for acute treatment for example for the treatment of acute heart failure.

This invention also provides pharmaceutical compositions comprised of a compound of Formula I and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier which is comprised of one or more excipients or additives. An excipient or additive is an inert substance used to formulate the active drug ingredient. For oral use the pharmaceutical compositions of this invention containing the active ingredient may be in forms such as pills tablets troches lozenges aqueous or oily suspensions dispersible powders or granules emulsions hard or soft capsules or syrups or elixirs. Compositions intended for oral use may be prepared according to any method known to the art for the manufacture of pharmaceutical compositions. Tablets contain the active ingredient in admixture with non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable excipients which are suitable for the manufacture of tablets. These excipients may be for example inert diluents such as calcium carbonate sodium carbonate lactose mannitol calcium phosphate or sodium phosphate granulating and disintegrating agents for example corn starch or alginic acid binding agents for example starch gelatin or acacia and lubricating agents for example magnesium stearate stearic acid or talc.

Pharmaceutical compositions may also contain other customary additives for example wetting agents stabilizers emulsifiers dispersants preservatives sweeteners colorants flavorings aromatizers thickeners buffer substances solvents solubilizers agents for achieving a depot effect salts for altering the osmotic pressure coating agents or antioxidants.

Oral immediate release and time controlled release dosage forms may be employed as well as enterically coated oral dosage forms. Tablets may be uncoated or they may be coated by known techniques for aesthetic purposes to mask taste or for other reasons. Coatings can also be used to delay disintegration and absorption in the gastrointestinal tract and thereby provide a sustained action over a longer period. For example a time delay material such as glyceryl monostearate or glyceryl distearate may be employed.

Formulations for oral use may also be presented as hard gelatin capsules wherein the active ingredient is mixed with an inert solid diluent for example calcium carbonate calcium phosphate or kaolin or as soft gelatin capsules wherein the active ingredients is mixed with water or miscible solvents such as propylene glycol PEGs and ethanol or an oil medium for example peanut oil liquid paraffin or olive oil.

Aqueous suspensions contain the active material in admixture with excipients suitable for the manufacture of aqueous suspensions. Oily suspensions may be formulated by suspending the active ingredient in a vegetable oil for example arachis oil olive oil sesame oil or coconut oil or in mineral oil such as liquid paraffin. The oily suspensions may contain a thickening agent for example beeswax hard paraffin or cetyl alcohol. Sweetening agents and flavoring agents may be added to provide a palatable oral preparation. These compositions may be preserved by the addition of an anti oxidant such as ascorbic acid. Syrups and elixirs may be formulated with sweetening agents for example glycerol propylene glycol sorbitol or sucrose.

The instant invention also encompasses a process for preparing a pharmaceutical composition comprising combining a compound of Formula I with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Also encompassed is the pharmaceutical composition which is made by combining a compound of Formula I with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Furthermore a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of this invention can be used for the preparation of a medicament useful for inhibiting ROMK for causing diuresis and or natriuresis and or for treating preventing or reducing the risk for any of the medical conditions described herein in dosage amounts described herein.

The amount of active compound of Formula I and or its pharmaceutically acceptable salts in the pharmaceutical composition may be for example but not limited to from 0.1 to 200 mg particularly from 0.1 to 100 mg and more particularly from 0.1 to 50 mg per dose on a free acid free base weight basis but depending on the type of the pharmaceutical composition potency of the active ingredient and or the medical condition being treated it could also be lower or higher. Pharmaceutical compositions usually comprise 0.5 to 90 percent by weight of the active compound on a free acid free base weight basis.

The compounds of Formula I inhibit ROMK. On account of this property apart from use as pharmaceutically active compounds in human medicine and veterinary medicine they can also be employed as a scientific tool or as aid for biochemical investigations in which such an effect on ROMK is intended and also for diagnostic purposes for example in the in vitro diagnosis of cell samples or tissue samples. The compounds of Formula I can also be employed as intermediates for the preparation of other pharmaceutically active compounds.

One or more additional pharmacologically active agents may be administered in combination with a compound of Formula I. An additional active agent or agents is intended to mean a compound that is different from the compound of Formula I and which is a pharmaceutically active agent or agents that is active in the body including pro drugs that convert to pharmaceutically active form after administration and also includes free acid free base and pharmaceutically acceptable salts of said additional active agents when such forms are sold commercially or are otherwise chemically possible. Generally any suitable additional active agent or agents including but not limited to anti hypertensive agents additional diuretics anti atherosclerotic agents such as a lipid modifying compound anti diabetic agents and or anti obesity agents may be used in any combination with the compound of Formula I in a single dosage formulation a fixed dose drug combination or may be administered to the patient in one or more separate dosage formulations which allows for concurrent or sequential administration of the active agents co administration of the separate active agents . Examples of additional active agents which may be employed include but are not limited to angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors e.g alacepril benazepril captopril ceronapril cilazapril delapril enalapril enalaprilat fosinopril imidapril lisinopril moveltipril perindopril quinapril ramipril spirapril temocapril or trandolapril angiotensin II receptor antagonists also known as angiotensin receptor blockers or ARBs e.g. losartan i.e. COZAAR valsartan candesartan olmesartan telmesartan eprosartan irbesartan azilsartan and any of these drugs used in combination with thiazide like diuretics such as hydrochlorothiazide such as HYZAAR diuretics e.g. hydrochlorothiazide HCTZ potassium sparing diuretics such as amiloride HCl spironolactone epleranone triamterene each with or without HCTZ carbonic anhydrase inhibitors such as acetazolamide neutral endopeptidase inhibitors e.g. thiorphan and phosphoramidon aldosterone antagonists aldosterone synthase inhibitors renin inhibitors e.g. urea derivatives of di and tri peptides See U.S. Pat. No. 5 116 835 amino acids and derivatives U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 095 119 and 5 104 869 amino acid chains linked by non peptidic bonds U.S. Pat. No. 5 114 937 di and tri peptide derivatives U.S. Pat. No. 5 106 835 peptidyl amino diols U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 063 208 and 4 845 079 and peptidyl beta aminoacyl aminodiol carbamates U.S. Pat. No. 5 089 471 also a variety of other peptide analogs as disclosed in the following U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 071 837 5 064 965 5 063 207 5 036 054 5 036 053 5 034 512 and 4 894 437 and small molecule renin inhibitors including diol sulfonamides and sulfinyls U.S. Pat. No. 5 098 924 N morpholino derivatives U.S. Pat. No. 5 055 466 N heterocyclic alcohols U.S. Pat. No. 4 885 292 and pyrolimidazolones U.S. Pat. No. 5 075 451 also pepstatin derivatives U.S. Pat. No. 4 980 283 and fluoro and chloro derivatives of statone containing peptides U.S. Pat. No. 5 066 643 enalkrein RO 42 5892 A 65317 CP 80794 ES 1005 ES 8891 SQ 34017 aliskiren 2 S 4 S 5 S 7 S N 2 carbamoyl 2 methylpropyl 5 amino 4 hydroxy 2 7 diisopropyl 8 4 methoxy 3 3 methoxypropoxy phenyl octanamid hemifumarate SPP600 SPP630 and SPP635 endothelin receptor antagonists mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists vasodilators e.g. nitroprusside calcium channel blockers e.g. amlodipine nifedipine veraparmil diltiazem felodipine gallopamil niludipine nimodipine nicardipine potassium channel activators e.g. nicorandil pinacidil cromakalim minoxidil aprilkalim loprazolam sympatholitics beta adrenergic blocking drugs e.g. acebutolol atenolol betaxolol bisoprolol carvedilol metoprolol metoprolol tartate nadolol propranolol sotalol timolol alpha adrenergic blocking drugs e.g. doxazocin prazocin or alpha methyldopa central alpha adrenergic agonists peripheral vasodilators e.g. hydralazine nitrates or nitric oxide donating compounds e.g. isosorbide mononitrate lipid lowering agents e.g. HMG CoA reductase inhibitors such as simvastatin and lovastatin which are marketed as ZOCOR and MEVACOR in lactone pro drug form and function as inhibitors after administration and pharmaceutically acceptable salts of dihydroxy open ring acid HMG CoA reductase inhibitors such as atorvastatin particularly the calcium salt sold in LIPITOR rosuvastatin particularly the calcium salt sold in CRESTOR pravastatin particularly the sodium salt sold in PRAVACHOL and fluvastatin particularly the sodium salt sold in LESCOL a cholesterol absorption inhibitor such as ezetimibe ZETIA and ezetimibe in combination with any other lipid lowering agents such as the HMG CoA reductase inhibitors noted above and particularly with simvastatin VYTORIN or with atorvastatin calcium niacin in immediate release or controlled release forms and particularly niacin in combination with a DP antagonist such as laropiprant TREDAPTIVE and or with an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor niacin receptor agonists such as acipimox and acifran as well as niacin receptor partial agonists metabolic altering agents including insulin sensitizing agents and related compounds for the treatment of diabetes such as biguanides e.g. metformin meglitinides e.g. repaglinide nateglinide sulfonylureas e.g. chlorpropamide glimepiride glipizide glyburide tolazamide tolbutamide thiazolidinediones also referred to as glitazones e.g. pioglitazone rosiglitazone alpha glucosidase inhibitors e.g. acarbose miglitol dipeptidyl peptidase inhibitors e.g. sitagliptin JANUVIA alogliptin vildagliptin saxagliptin linagliptin dutogliptin gemigliptin ergot alkaloids e.g. bromocriptine combination medications such as JANUMET sitagliptin with metformin and injectable diabetes medications such as exenatide and pramlintide acetate or with other drugs beneficial for the prevention or the treatment of the above mentioned diseases including but not limited to diazoxide and including the free acid free base and pharmaceutically acceptable salt forms of the above active agents where chemically possible.

Several methods for preparing the compounds of this invention are described in the following Schemes and Examples. Starting materials and intermediates are purchased from commercial sources made from known procedures or are otherwise illustrated. In some cases the order of carrying out the steps of the reaction schemes may be varied to facilitate the reaction or to avoid unwanted reaction products. The Ar group shown in the below schemes can represent any of the mono or bi cyclic rings at the terminal end of Zor Zas defined previously.

The preparation of the compounds I1 is detailed in Scheme 1. Treatment of the styrene epoxide 1 1 with an appropriate monoprotected diamine 1 2 under appropriate coupling conditions such as heating in alcoholic solvent or microwave heating affords the amino alcohol product 1 3. The Boc protecting group Greene T. Wuts P. G. M. John Wiley and Sons Inc. New York N.Y. 1991 of 1 3 can be removed under acidic conditions such as with TFA or HCl. Alternatively the diamine may be protected with another protecting group such as Cbz and subsequently removed by hydrogenolysis. For optimal regioselectivity in the epoxide opening the free base of the resulting amine should be generated in situ as described in the preparation of EXAMPLE 1 for instance or isolated previously through standard methods for example sodium carbonate wash and extraction ion exchange column chromatography etc. . The resulting amine may be coupled to another epoxide 1 5 which may or may not be the same as 1 1 under the conditions described above to provide compounds I1.

Additionally compounds of formula I2 can also be prepared by the sequence detailed in Scheme 2. Treatment of the previously described intermediate 1 4 with the appropriate electrophile 2 1 such as carboxylic acid or ester under standard amide bond forming conditions such as EDC HOBt triethylamine gives rise to I2.

The preparation of compounds of formula I3 is shown in Scheme 3. Again starting from intermediate 1 4 coupling with the appropriate sulfonic acid or activated derivative such as sulfonyl chloride under appropriate conditions such as triethylamine provides the sulfonamides I3.

The independent synthesis of diastereomers and enantiomers or their chromatographic separations may be achieved as known in the art by appropriate modification of the methodology disclosed herein. Their absolute stereochemistry may be determined by x ray crystallography of crystalline products or crystalline intermediates which are derivatized if necessary with a reagent containing an asymmetric center of known absolute stereochemistry.

The subject compounds may be prepared by modification of the procedures disclosed in the Examples as appropriate. Starting materials are commercially available or made by known procedures or as illustrated. The following examples are provided for the purpose of further illustration only and are not intended to be limitations of the disclosed invention.

Reactions sensitive to moisture or air were performed under nitrogen or argon using anhydrous solvents and reagents. The progress of reactions was determined by either analytical thin layer chromatography TLC usually performed with E. Merck precoated TLC plates silica gel 60F 254 layer thickness 0.25 mm or liquid chromatography mass spectrometry LC MS also referred to as LC in the experimental procedures herein .

Typically the analytical LC MS system used consisted of a Waters ZQ platform with electrospray ionization in positive ion detection mode with an Agilent 1100 series HPLC with autosampler. The column was usually a Waters Xterra MS C18 3.0 50 mm 5 m. The flow rate was 1 mL minute and the injection volume was 10 L. UV detection was in the range of 210 400 nm. The mobile phase consisted of solvent A water plus 0.06 TFA and solvent B acetonitrile plus 0.05 TFA with a gradient of 100 solvent A for 0.7 minutes changing to 100 solvent B over 3.75 minutes maintained for 1.1 minutes then reverting to 100 solvent A over 0.2 minutes.

Preparative High Performance Liquid Chromatography HPLC purifications were usually performed using a mass spectrometry directed system. Usually they were performed on a Waters Chromatography Workstation configured with LC MS System Consisting of Waters ZQ single quad MS system with Electrospray Ionization Waters 2525 Gradient Pump Waters 2767 Injector Collector Waters 996 PDA Detector the MS Conditions of 150 750 amu Positive Electrospray Collection Triggered by MS and a Waters Sunfire C 18 5 micron 30 mm id 100 mm column. The mobile phases consisted of mixtures of acetonitrile 10 100 in water containing 0.1 TFA. Flow rates were maintained at 50 mL minute the injection volume was 1800 L and the UV detection range was 210 400 nm. Mobile phase gradients were optimized for the individual compounds.

Reactions performed using microwave irradiation were normally carried out using an Emrys Optimizer manufactured by Personal Chemistry or an Initiator manufactured by Biotage.

Concentration of solutions was carried out on a rotary evaporator under reduced pressure. Flash chromatography was usually performed using a Biotage Flash Chromatography apparatus Dyax Corp. on silica gel 32 63 mM 60 pore size in pre packed cartridges of the size noted. H NMR spectra were acquired at 500 MHz spectrometers in CDClsolutions unless otherwise noted. Chemical shifts were reported in parts per million ppm . Tetramethylsilane TMS was used as internal reference in CDCl solutions and residual CHOH peak or TMS was used as internal reference in CDOD solutions. Coupling constants J were reported in hertz Hz . Chiral analytical chromatography was performed on one of Chiralpak AS Chiralpak AD Chiralcel OD Chiralcel IA or Chiralcel OJ columns 250 4.6 mm Daicel Chemical Industries Ltd. with noted percentage of either ethanol in hexane Et Hex or isopropanol in heptane IPA Hep as isocratic solvent systems. Chiral preparative chromatography was conducted on one of Chiralpak AS Chiralpak AD Chiralcel OD Ciralcel IA or Chiralcel OJ columns 20 250 mm Daicel Chemical Industries Ltd. with desired isocratic solvent systems identified on chiral analytical chromatography or by supercritical fluid SFC conditions.

In the Examples when a compound is obtained via chromatography e.g. MPLC HPLC silica gel it means that the solvent was removed generally under vacuum after the chromatography step to obtain the isolated product.

Abbreviations used herein include C O CH Ac acetic acid AcOH OC O CH OAc aqueous aq Cbz benzyloxycarbonyl N N diisopropylethylamine DIEA N N dimethylformamide DMF ethyl acetate EtOAc diethyl ether ether or EtO petroleum ether Pet Ether PE gram s g hour s h or hr 2 propanol IPA mass spectrum ms or MS microliter s 4 milligram s mg milliliter s mL millimole mmol minute s min methyl t butylether MTBE benzotriazol 1 yloxy tripyrrolidino phosphonium hexafluorophosphate PyBOP retention time R room temperature rt or RT saturated aq sodium chloride solution brine trifluoroacetic acid TFA triethylamine TEA hydrochloric acid HCl tetrahydrofuran THF flash chromatography FC medium pressure liquid chromatography MPLC liquid chromatography LC liquid chromatography mass spectrometry LCMS or LC MS supercritical fluid chromatography SFC t butyloxycarbonyl Boc or BOC Diethylaminosulfur trifluoride DAST dichloromethane DCM dimethylacetamide DMA DMAC dimethylsulfoxide DMSO 1 3 Bis diphenylphosphino propane DPPP acetic acid HOAc 3 chloroperoxybenzoic acid m CPBA methyl Me methanol MeOH N bromosuccinimide NBS thin layer chromatography TLC N 3 dimethylaminopropyl N ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride EDC round bottom RB diisopropylamine DIPA hexamethylphosphoramide HMPA 1 hydroxybenzotriazole HOBt lithium diisopropylamide LDA high performance liquid chromatography mass spectrometry HPLC MS nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide NADP isopropyl acetate IPAc O Benzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium tetrafluoroborate TBTU . Celite is a tradename for diatomaceous earth.

The following are representative procedures for the preparation of the compounds used in the following Examples or which can be substituted for the compounds used in the following Examples which may not be commercially available.

To a solution of 3 bromo 2 methyl benzoic acid 35 g 160 mmol in THF 200 mL was added borane.THF complex 1.0 M 210 mL 210 mmol . The mixture was allowed to stir for 24 hours. The reaction was quenched with water. The solvent THF was removed under reduced pressure. The resulting solid was dissolved in ethyl acetate 500 mL washed with 1N hydrochloric acid saturated sodium bicarbonate and brine. The combined organic layers were dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to afford 3 bromo 2 methylphenyl methanol.

To a flask charged with 3 bromo 2 methylphenyl methanol 6.0 g 30 mmol was added a 1M trifluoroacetic acid solution of thallium trifluoroacetate 16.2 g 29.8 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The solvent was removed under vacuum and the residue was pumped under high vacuum for 30 minutes to ensure complete removal of TFA. To the residue was then added palladium II chloride 529 mg 2.98 mmol lithium chloride 2.53 g 59.7 mmol magnesium oxide 2.41 g 59.7 mmol and methanol 150 mL . The reaction was flushed with CO twice and kept under CO at room temperature. Analysis by LC showed a big product spot within 2 hours. To this solution was added ethyl acetate to precipitate the salts. The black solution was filtered through a Celite diatomaceous earth pad washed with EtOAc adsorbed onto silica and purified by silica gel chromatography to afford 5 bromo 4 methyl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one.

5 Bromo 4 methyl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one INTERMEDIATE 1 600 mg 4.5 mmol potassium vinyl trifluoroborate 510 mg 2.2 mmol PdCl dppf CHClAdduct 180 mg 0.220 mmol and TEA 0.62 mL 4.5 mmol were added to 10 mL ethanol in a 20 mL microwave tube. The tube was sealed and degassed then heated to 140 C. for 20 minutes. Analysis by LC MS showed product peak. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate washed with brine twice dried and evaporated to dryness. The crude product was purified by MPLC chromatography 0 80 ETOAC Hexane solvent system to yield 5 ethenyl 4 methyl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one.

5 ethenyl 4 methyl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one 1.5 g 8.4 mmol was added to DCM 25 mL at 0 C. then meta chloroperbenzoic acid 2.9 g 17 mmol was added and the mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was washed once each with saturated aqueous NaSO saturated sodium bicarbonate and brine. The organic layer was dried over NaSO filtered and evaporated to dryness. The crude material was purified by MPLC chromatography eluting with 0 80 EtOAc hexane solvent system to yield 4 methyl 5 oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one.

Racemic 4 methyl 5 oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one INTERMEDIATE 2 was resolved on a ChiralPak AD H column 5 25 cm under supercritical fluid chromatography SFC conditions on a Berger MGIII preparative SFC instrument. The racemate was diluted to 50 mg ml in 1 1 DCM MeOH. The separation was accomplished using 10 EtOH CO2 flow rate 200 ml min 100 bar 25 C. 500 l Injections were spaced every 2.12 minutes. The fast epoxide 4 methyl 5 2R oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one 2B eluted at 5.2 min and the slow epoxide 4 methyl 5 2S oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one 2A eluted at 5.6 minutes.

Alternatively the resolution could also be achieved using a mobile phase of 8 MeOH 98 COwith a flow rate of 100 ml min. In that case the sample was prepared by dissolving in methanol 20 mg ml and using a 1 mL volume per injection. After separation the fractions were dried off via rotary evaporator at bath temperature 40 C.

The absolute stereochemistry of each enantiomer was inferred based on the X ray crystal structure determination of a derivative made with 2B and by Mosher ester and Trost ester HNMR analysis of an ester made starting from 2B. The B epoxide isomer finds utility in the present invention.

To a SL 3 neck RB flask equipped with overhead stirrer was charged NaBH4 87.0 g 2.30 mol and THF 3.0 L and the resulting slurry was cooled to 10 C. To the slurry was then added 3 hydroxy 2 methyl benzoic acid 175 g 1.15 mol portionwise over 20 minutes Tmax 17 C. . A stirrable slurry formed and was aged for an additional 45 minutes at 10 15 C. after which BF OEt 321 mL 2.53 mol was added slowly over 1.5 hours. The slurry was aged at 10 C. 15 C. for 2 hours and then assayed for reaction completion 98.5 conversion . The slurry was cooled to 

3 Hydroxymethyl 2 methyl phenol 113.9 g 824.0 mmol was dissolved in a mixture of acetonitrile 850 mL and trifluoroacetic acid 750.0 mL 9.735 mmol in a 3 neck 5 L flask under nitrogen. The reaction mixture was cooled to 33 C. N bromosuccinimide 141 g 791 mmol was added over 15 minutes with the temperature during addition in the range of 35 to 33 C. The reaction mixture was allowed to stir for an additional 15 minutes during which time the temperature decreased to 40 C. The cooling bath was removed and potassium carbonate 741.0 g 5.358 mmol diluted with water to a total of 1.0 L was added. Off gassing was observed and the temperature increased to 25 C. MTBE 1.5 L was added and the reaction mixture was transferred to a separatory funnel. The layers were separated. The aqueous layer was diluted with water 500 mL and extracted with MTBE 1 L EtOAc 500 mL and then MTBE 500 mL EtOAc 250 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with water 240 mL and dried over sodium sulfate. The sodium sulfate was removed by filtration washed with additional MTBE and concentrated under reduced pressure. MTBE 684 mL 2 volumes was added and the suspension was heated to 40 C. to produce a homogeneous solution. The solution was allowed to cool to room temperature. Six volumes of heptane were added and the suspension was stirred overnight. The suspension was filtered and the crystals were washed with 4 1 heptane MTBE 500 mL followed by heptane 500 mL . The solid was dried under vacuum providing 4 bromo 3 hydroxymethyl 2 methyl phenol.

To a 2 L 3 neck flask equipped with overhead stirrer Ninlet and condenser were charged 4 bromo 3 hydroxymethyl 2 methyl phenol 100 g 461 mmol CuCN 83.0 g 921 mmol and DMF 500 mL . The solution was sparged with Nfor 15 minutes and then heated to 145 C. to obtain a homogeneous solution. The solution was aged at 145 C. for 2 hours and then the reaction mixture was cooled to 95 C. 41.5 mL water was added sparged with N and the reaction aged for 20 hours. The reaction was cooled to room temperature and then the solids filtered through Solka Flok powdered cellulose and the cake washed with 50 mL DMF. To a 3 L flask containing 1 L EtOAc was added the DMF filtrate. A precipitate coating formed in the bottom of the flask. The DMF EtOAc suspension was filtered through Solka Flok and the cake was washed with 250 mL EtOAc. The resulting filtrate was washed with 5 brine solution 3 500 mL . The aqueous layers were extracted with 500 mL EtOAc and the combined organics were dried over MgSO4 filtered and evaporated. The solids were slurried in 250 mL MTBE at room temperature and then filtered and washed with 100 mL MTBE. The solids were dried under vacuum at room temperature providing 5 hydroxy 4 methyl 3H isobenzofuran 1 one.

5 Hydroxy 4 methyl 3H isobenzofuran 1 one 46.8 g 285 mmol was suspended in dichloromethane 935 mL in a 2 L roundbottom flask equipped with overhead stirrer under nitrogen. Triethylamine 59.5 mL 427 mmol was added and the reaction mixture was cooled in an ice bath to 3.8 C. Trifluoromethanesulfonic anhydride 67.4 mL 399 mmol was added via addition funnel over 50 minutes keeping the temperature 

To a 1 L 3 neck was charged trifluoromethanesulfonic acid 4 methyl 1 oxo 1 3 dihydro isobenzofuran 5 yl ester 63.0 g 213 mmol DMF 315 mL butyl vinyl ether 138 mL 1063 mmol and then EtN 35.6 mL 255 mmol . The solution was sparged with Nfor 20 minutes. To the solution was added Pd OAc 1.19 g. 5.32 mmol and DPPP 2.41 g. 5.85 mmol . The solution was sparged for an additional 10 minutes and then heated to 80 C. After a 1 hour age the solution was cooled to 

To a 1 L 3 neck flask equipped with overhead stirrer was added crude 5 1 butoxy vinyl 4 methyl 3H isobenzofuran 1 one 55.8 g and THF 315 mL . The solution was cooled to 

5 2 Bromo acetyl 4 methyl 3H isobenzofuran 1 one 48.8 g. 181 mmol was charged to a 5 L 3 neck round bottom equipped with overhead stirrer thermocouple and heating mantle. 2 Propanol 1.22 L was added followed by 610 mL of pH 7 0.1M potassium phosphate buffer. Buffer solution 610 mL was charged to a 1.0 L Erlenmeyer flask and 2.44 g of NADP was added to the Erlenmeyer and swirled to dissolve. A reducing enzyme KRED MIF 20 2.44 g available from Codexis Inc. 200 Penobscot Drive Redwood City Calif. 94063 www.codexis.com tel. 1 650 421 8100 was added to the Erlenmeyer flask and the mixture was swirled to dissolve the solids. The resulting solution was added to the 5 L round bottom which was then heated to 28 C. and aged for 6 hours at which point the reaction was cooled to room temperature and triethylamine 50.2 mL 360 mmol was added. The resulting solution was aged at 40 C. for 1 hour. The light slurry solution was cooled to room temperature after which 122 g NaCl was added. The solution was aged at room temperature and then extracted with 1.22 L isopropyl acetate IPAc . The aqueous layer was re extracted with 400 mL IPAc and the combined organics were washed with 400 mL 20 brine solution dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated by rotary evaporation. The resulting solids were taken up in 100 mL IPAc thick slurry . Hexanes were added 400 mL and the suspension aged at room temperature and then filtered and washed w 5 1 Hexanes IPAc solution 150 mL . The crystalline solids were dried under vacuum at room temperature to provide 4 methyl 5 2R oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one.

A solution of 4 methyl 5 2R oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one INTERMEDIATE 2 38 mg 0.20 mmol in 2 mL ethanol was added to tert butyl 2 7 diazaspiro 4.5 decane 7 carboxylate 40 mg 0.20 mmol . The reaction mixture was microwaved at 140 C. for 55 minutes. The solvents were removed in vacuo to provide tert butyl 2 R 2 hydroxy 2 4 methyl 1 oxo 1 3 dihydroisobenzofuran 5 yl ethyl 2 7 diazaspiro 4.5 decane 7 carboxylate which was carried on without further purification.

A suspension of tert butyl 2 R 2 hydroxy 2 4 methyl 1 oxo 1 3 dihydroisobenzofuran 5 yl ethyl 2 7 diazaspiro 4.5 decane 7 carboxylate 80 mg 0.20 mmol in dioxane 200 L was treated with a solution of hydrochloric acid in dioxane 4.0 M 200 L . After shaking for 3 hours the solution was treated with additional hydrochloric acid in dioxane 4.0 M 100 L . After shaking an additional sixteen hours the solvents were removed in vacuo to provide 5 1R 2 2 7 diazaspiro 4.5 dec 2 yl 1 hydroxyethyl 4 methyl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one hydrochloride which was carried on without further purification.

5 1R 2 2 8 Diazaspiro 4.5 dec 2 yl 1 hydroxyethyl 4 methyl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one hydrochloride was prepared in a similar fashion to that described for the synthesis of INTERMEDIATE 3 starting from commercially available tert butyl 2 8 diazaspiro 4.5 decane 7 carboxylate and 4 methyl 5 2R oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one INTERMEDIATE 2B .

5 1R 1 Hydroxy 2 octahydro 2H pyrrolo 3 4 c pyridin 2 yl ethyl 4 methyl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one hydrochloride was prepared in a similar fashion to that described for the synthesis of INTERMEDIATE 3 starting from tert butyl octahydro 5H pyrrolo 3 4 c pyridine 5 carboxylate and 4 methyl 5 2R oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one INTERMEDIATE 2B .

5 R 2 Hexahydropyrrolo 3 4 b pyrrol 1 2H yl 1 hydroxyethyl 4 methyl 2 bezofuran1 3H one hydrochloride was prepared in a similar fashion to that described for the synthesis of INTERMEDIATE 3 starting from tert butyl 3 3 dimethylpiperazine 1 carboxylate and 4 methyl 5 2R oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one INTERMEDIATE 2B .

5 R 2 1 7 Diazaspiro 4.5 dec 7 yl 1 hydroxyethyl 4 methyl 2 benzofuran1 3H one hydrochloride was prepared in a similar fashion to that described for the synthesis of INTERMEDIATE 3 starting from tert butyl 1 7 diazaspiro 4.5 decane 1 carboxylate and 4 methyl 5 2R oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one INTERMEDIATE 2B .

5 R 2 2 8 Diazaspiro 5.5 undec 2 yl 1 hydroxyethyl 4 methyl 2 benzofuran1 3H one hydrochloride was prepared in a similar fashion to that described for the synthesis of INTERMEDIATE 3 starting from tert butyl 2 8 diazaspiro 5.5 undecane 2 carboxylate and 4 methyl 5 2R oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one INTERMEDIATE 2B .

5 1R 2 Hexahydropyrrolo 3 4 b pyrrol 5 1H yl 1 hydroxyethyl 4 methylisobenzofuran 1 3H one hydrochloride was prepared in a similar fashion to that described for the synthesis of INTERMEDIATE 3 starting from tert butyl hexahydropyrrolo 3 4 b pyrrole 1 2H carboxylate and 4 methyl 5 2R oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one INTERMEDIATE 2B .

To a solution of 2 chloro 4 methoxypyridine 10.0 g 69.7 mmol in 50 mL of sulfuric acid at 0 C. was added NBS. The reaction mixture was allowed to stir and warm up to room temperature for 2 hours and then heated at 60 C. for 5 hours. The reaction mixture was then cooled to room temperature and neutralized with 1 N NaOH pH 7 diluted with water 50 mL and the aqueous layer was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 100 mL . The organic layers were washed with water 2 50 mL saturated NaHCOand brine dried over MgSOand concentrated to provide an oil which was chromatographed. On elution with 0 25 EtOAc hexanes the final product was obtained.

A solution of 5 bromo 2 chloro 4 methoxypyridine 5.0 g 22.48 mmol in DMF 80 mL was purged with nitrogen for 15 minutes. At this point Zn CN 3.96 g 33.7 mmol and Pd PhP 2.60 g 2.25 mmol were added successively. The resulting suspension was stirred at 95 C. for 12 hours under nitrogen atmosphere. The reaction mixture was cooled to ambient temperature and filtered to remove inorganic solid. The solvent DMF was evaporated to provide the crude residue as an oil which was purified on silica gel and eluted with 0 30 ethyl acetate hexanes to afford the product.

A 20 ml microwave tube was charged with 6 chloro 4 methoxypyridine 3 carbonitrile 200.0 mg 1.2 mmol bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II complex with dichloromethane 97.0 mg 0.12 mmol potassium vinyl trifluoroborate 318.0 mg 2.37 mmol triethylamine 0.33 mL 2.37 mmol and EtOH 6 mL . The microwave tube was evacuated and filled with nitrogen two times and heated to 140 C. After 1 hour the reaction mixture was diluted with water and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine and dried over NaSO. The extracts were concentrated and chromatographed over a column of SiO 0 30 EtOAc hexanes as eluent . Evaporation of the solvent yielded the title compound.

A solution of 6 ethenyl 4 methoxypyridine 3 carbonitrile 80.0 mg 0.499 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 8 mL and HO 4 mL was treated with N bromosuccinimide 89.0 mg 0.499 mmol 1.0 equiv . The reaction mixture was allowed to stir at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was poured into HO 8 mL and extracted with EtOAc 3 30 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous NaCl 1 30 mL and dried over NaSO. Evaporation of the solvent gave an oil that was purified over SiO 0 30 EtOAc hexanes as eluent yielding 6 2 bromo 1 hydroxyethyl 4 methoxypyridine 3 carbonitrile. HNMR 500 MHz DMSO d 8.65 s 1H 7.19 s 1H 5.05 t J 5.4 Hz 1H 4.05 s 3H 3.85 dd J 4.5 Hz 1H 3.75 dd J 6.1 Hz 1H LC MS M 1 241.

A solution of 6 2 bromo 1 hydroxyethyl 4 methoxypyridine 3 carbonitrile 74.0 mg 0.288 mmol in anhydrous methanol 7 mL was treated with sodium carbonate 61.0 mg 0.576 mmol 2.0 equiv and allowed to stir at room temperature overnight. The solvent was evaporated. The residue was taken up in EtOAc 30 mL and washed with water and brine. After drying over NaSO the organic layer was removed and the residue was purified over SiO 10 45 EtOAc hexanes as eluent to yield 4 methoxy 6 oxiran 2 yl pyridine 3 carbonitrile. H NMR 500 MHz DMSO d 8.64 s 1H 6.87 s 1H 4.08 dd J 2.6 Hz J 2.3 Hz 1H 4.03 s 3H 3.26 dd J 4.6 Hz J 5.4 Hz 1H 2.87 dd J 2.2 Hz J 2.4 Hz 1H LC MS M 1 177.

To a stirring solution of 6 bromopyridine 3 carbonitrile 2.0 g 10.9 mmol in EtOH 70 mL were added bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II complex with dichloromethane 0.892 mg 0.10 mmol potassium vinyl trifluoroborate 2.93 g 21.9 mmol triethylamine 3.0 mL 21.9 mmol and water 0.5 mL . The reaction mixture was heated to reflux. Upon completion as determined by reverse phase HPLC MS 1 2 h and TLC eluent 10 ethyl acetate in hexanes the reaction was cooled to room temperature and then was diluted with water and extracted with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with brine and dried over MgSO. The extracts were concentrated and chromatographed over a column of SiO 0 20 EtOAc hexanes as eluent . Evaporation of the solvent yielded 6 ethenylpyridine 3 carbonitrile.

A solution of 6 ethenylpyridine 3 carbonitrile 0.742 g 5.70 mmol in a 2 1 ratio of HO t BuOH 30 mL was treated with N bromosuccinimide in portions over 5 minutes 1.07 g 5.99 mmol and stirred at 40 C. for 1 hour. After cooling to 5 C. the reaction was basified with drop wise addition of solution of sodium hydroxide 0.684 g in 5 mL of HO 17.1 mmol and stirred for another 1 hour. The reaction mixture was poured into HO 10 mL and extracted with EtOAc 2 50 mL . The combined organic layers were washed with saturated aqueous NaCl 1 30 mL and dried over MgSO. Evaporation of the solvent and purification over SiO 0 30 EtOAc hexanes as eluent provided 6 oxiran 2 yl pyridine 3 carbonitrile.

5 1R 1 Hydroxy 2 1 7 diazaspiro 4.4 nonan 1 yl ethyl 4 methylisobenzofuran 1 3H one hydrochloride was prepared in a similar fashion to that described for the synthesis of INTERMEDIATE 3 starting from tert butyl 1 7 diazaspiro 4.4 nonane 7 carboxylate and 4 methyl 5 2R oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one INTERMEDIATE 2B .

5 1R 1 Hydroxy 2 2 methylhexahydropyrrolo 3 4 b pyrrol 1 2H yl ethyl 4 methylisobenzofuran 1 3H one hydrochloride was prepared in a similar fashion to that described for the synthesis of INTERMEDIATE 3 starting from tert butyl 2 methylhexahydropyrrolo 3 4 b pyrrole 5 1H carboxylate and 4 methyl 5 2R oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one INTERMEDIATE 2B .

A mixture of methyl 6 aminonicotinate 5.0 g 33 mmol in acetic acid 47 ml 820 mmol was treated with triethyl orthoformate 8.8 ml 53 mmol followed by sodium azide 3.2 g 49 mmol . The resulting mixture was heated at 80 C. for 1 hour after which the reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and diluted with water. The resulting precipitate was collected and dried under high vacuum to provide methyl 6 1H tetrazol 1 yl nicotinate.

Methyl 6 1H tetrazol 1 yl nicotinate was dissolved in THF 50 mL and treated with 1N lithium hydroxide 50 mL and stirred for 1 hour. The mixture was diluted with water and the resulting solid isolated by filtration and drying under high vacuum to provide 6 1H tetrazol 1 yl nicotinic acid.

5 1H tetrazol 1 yl picolinic acid was prepared in a similar fashion to that described for the synthesis of INTERMEDIATE 14 starting from methyl 6 aminonicotinate.

5 1R 1 Hydroxy 2 1 7 diazaspiro 4.4 nonan 1 yl ethyl 4 methylisobenzofuran 1 3H one hydrochloride was prepared in a similar fashion to that described for the synthesis of INTERMEDIATE 3 starting from tert butyl 1 7 diazaspiro 4.4 nonane 1 carboxylate and 4 methyl 5 2R oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one INTERMEDIATE 2B .

5 1R 2 3 6 Diazabicyclo 3.2.0 heptan 3 yl 1 hydroxyethyl 4 methylisobenzofuran 1 3H one hydrochloride was prepared in a similar fashion to that described for the synthesis of INTERMEDIATE 3 starting from racemic cis tert butyl 3 6 diazabicyclo 3.2.0 heptane 6 carboxylate and 4 methyl 5 2R oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one INTERMEDIATE 2B . Following epoxide coupling the diastereomers were separated by chiral SFC and the individual isomers deprotected.

6 1S 2 3 6 Diazabicyclo 3.2.0 heptan 3 yl 1 hydroxyethyl 4 methoxynicotinonitrile hydrochloride was prepared in a similar fashion to that described for the synthesis of INTERMEDIATE 3 starting from racemic cis tert butyl 3 6 diazabicyclo 3.2.0 heptane 6 carboxylate and the slower eluting isomer of 4 methoxy 6 oxiran 2 yl pyridine 3 carbonitrile INTERMEDIATE 10 A . Following epoxide coupling the diastereomers were separated by chiral SFC and the individual isomers deprotected.

A solution of 4 methyl 5 2R oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one INTERMEDIATE 2 38 mg 0.20 mmol in 0.50 mL of ethanol was prepared. Separately 5 1R 2 2 7 diazaspiro 4.5 dec 2 yl 1 hydroxyethyl 4 methyl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one INTERMEDIATE 3 60 mg 0.20 mmol was dissolved in 1 mL of ethanol by addition of 200 mg of MP CO3 resin and heating. The two solutions along with the resin were combined and microwaved at 140 C. for fifty five minutes. The solvent was removed in vacuo and the remaining solids were dissolved in 1 mL DMSO.

Purification by HPLC afforded 5 5 2 7 Diazaspiro 4.5 decane 2 7 diylbis 1R 1 hydroxyethane 2 1 diyl bis 4 methyl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one .

5 5 2 8 diazaspiro 4.5 decane 2 8 diylbis 1R 1 hydroxyethane 2 1 diyl bis 4 methyl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one was prepared in a similar fashion to that described for the synthesis of EXAMPLE 1 starting from 5 1R 2 2 8 Diazaspiro 4.5 dec 2 yl 1 hydroxyethyl 4 methyl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one hydrochloride INTERMEDIATE 4 and 4 methyl 5 2R oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one INTERMEDIATE 2B .

A solution of 5 cyanopyridine 2 carboxylic acid 25 mg 0.12 mmol and TBTU 64 mg 0.20 mmol in 0.5 mL of DMF was added to 5 1R 1 hydroxy 2 octahydro 2H pyrrolo 3 4 c pyridin 2 yl ethyl 4 methyl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one hydrochloride INTERMEDIATE 5 30 mg 0.10 mmol . DIEA 87 uL 0.50 mmol was added and the solution was shaken for sixteen hours and then diluted with 0.5 mL dimethylsulfoxide. The resulting solution was purified by HPLC which afforded 6 2 2R 2 hydroxy 2 4 methyl 1 oxo 1 3 dihydro 2 benzofuran 5 yl ethyl octahydro 5H pyrrolo 3 4 c pyridine 5 ylcarbonyl pyridine 3 carbonitrile.

A solution of 4 methyl 5 2R oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one INTERMEDIATE 2B 38 mg 0.20 mmol in 0.50 mL of ethanol was prepared. Separately 5 R 2 hexahydropyrrolo 3 4 b pyrrol 1 2H yl 1 hydroxyethyl 4 methyl 2 bezofuran1 3H one hydrochloride INTERMEDIATE 6 60. mg 0.20 mmol was dissolved in 1 mL of ethanol by addition of 200 mg of MP CO3 resin and heating. The two solutions along with the resin were combined and heated in a microwave reactor at 140 C. for fifty five minutes. The resulting mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the remaining solids were dissolved in 1 mL DMSO.

Purification of the DMSO solution by HPLC afforded two diastereomers of 5 5 hexahydropyrrolo 3 4 b pyrrole 1 5 diylbis 1R 1 hydroxyethane 2 1 diyl bis 4 methyl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one 

5 5 1 7 Diazaspiro 4.5 decane 1 7 diylbis 1R 1 hydroxyethane 2 1 diyl bis 4 methyl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one was prepared in a similar fashion to that described for the synthesis of EXAMPLE 1 starting from 5 R 2 1 7 diazaspiro 4.5 dec 7 yl 1 hydroxyethyl 4 methyl 2 benzofuran1 3H one hydrochloride INTERMEDIATE 7 and 4 methyl 5 2R oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one INTERMEDIATE 2B .

5 5 2 8 Diazaspiro 5.5 undecane 2 8 diylbis 1R 1 hydroxyethane 2 1 diyl bis 4 methyl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one was prepared in a similar fashion to that described for the synthesis of EXAMPLE 1 starting from 5 R 2 2 8 Diazaspiro 5.5 undec 2 yl 1 hydroxyethyl 4 methyl 2 benzofuran1 3H one hydrochloride INTERMEDIATE 8 and 4 methyl 5 2R oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one INTERMEDIATE 2B .

6 1 Hydroxy 2 5 2R 2 hydroxy 2 4 methyl 1 oxo 1 3 dihydro 2 benzofuran 5 yl ethyl hexahydropyrrolo 3 4 b pyrrol 1 2H ylethyl pyridine 3 carbonitrile was prepared in a similar fashion to that described for the synthesis of EXAMPLE 4A and B starting from 5 R 2 hexahydropyrrolo 3 4 b pyrrol 1 2H yl 1 hydroxyethyl 4 methyl 2 bezofuran1 3H one hydrochloride INTERMEDIATE 6 and the slower eluting diastereomer of 6 oxiran 2 yl pyridine 3 carbonitrile INTERMEDIATE 11 B .

A solution of commercially available 4 cyanobenzene 1 sulfonyl chloride 31 mg 0.12 mmol in 0.3 mL of DMF was added to a solution of 5 1R 2 2 8 diazaspiro 5.5 undec 2 yl 1 hydroxyethyl 4 methyl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one hydrochloride INTERMEDIATE 6 in 0.2 mL of DMF and DIEA 87 uL 0.50 mmol . The combined solution was shaken for sixteen hours and then diluted with 0.5 mL DMSO. The resulting solution was purified by HPLC to afford the two diastereomers of 4 1 R 2 Hydroxy 2 4 methyl 1 oxo 1 3 dihydroisobenzofuran 5 yl ethyl hexahydropyrrolo 3 4 b pyrrol 5 1H ylsulfonyl benzonitrile

4 5 R 2 Hydroxy 2 1 oxo 1 3 dihydroisobenzofuran 5 yl ethyl hexahydropyrrolo 3 4 b pyrrol 1 2H ylsulfonyl benzonitrile was prepared in a similar fashion to that described for the synthesis of EXAMPLE 8 starting from 5 1R 2 hexahydropyrrolo 3 4 b pyrrol 5 1H yl 1 hydroxyethyl 4 methylisobenzofuran 1 3H one hydrochloride INTERMEDIATE 9 and 4 cyanobenzene 1 sulfonyl chloride.

5 5 1R 1 R 2 2 1 7 Diazaspiro 4.4 nonane 1 7 diyl bis 1 hydroxyethane 2 1 diyl bis 4 methylisobenzofuran 1 3H one was prepared in a similar fashion to that described for the synthesis of EXAMPLE 4A and B starting from tert butyl 1 7 diazaspiro 4.4 nonane 7 carboxylate and 4 methyl 5 2R oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one INTERMEDIATE 2B .

6 1 Hydroxy 2 1 R 2 hydroxy 2 4 methyl 1 oxo 1 3 dihydroisobenzofuran 5 yl ethyl 2 methylhexahydropyrrolo 3 4 b pyrrol 5 1H yl ethyl nicotinonitrile was prepared in a similar fashion to that described for the synthesis of EXAMPLE 4A and B starting from 5 1R 1 hydroxy 2 2 methylhexahydropyrrolo 3 4 b pyrrol 1 2H yl ethyl 4 methylisobenzofuran 1 3H one hydrochloride INTERMEDIATE 13 and the slower eluting diastereomer of 6 oxiran 2 yl pyridine 3 carbonitrile INTERMEDIATE 11 .

5 5 1R 1 R 2 2 2 Methylhexahydropyrrolo 3 4 b pyrrole 1 5 diyl bis 1 hydroxyethane 2 1 diyl bis 4 methylisobenzofuran 1 3H one was prepared in a similar fashion to that described for the synthesis of EXAMPLE 4A and B starting from 5 1R 1 hydroxy 2 2 methylhexahydropyrrolo 3 4 b pyrrol 1 2H yl ethyl 4 methylisobenzofuran 1 3H one hydrochloride INTERMEDIATE 13 and 4 methyl 5 2R oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one INTERMEDIATE 2B .

5 1R 2 8 6 1H Tetrazol 1 yl nicotinoyl 2 8 diazaspiro 5.5 undecan 2 yl 1 hydroxyethyl 4 methylisobenzofuran 1 3H one was prepared in a similar fashion to that described for the synthesis of EXAMPLE 3 starting from 5 R 2 2 8 diazaspiro 5.5 undec 2 yl 1 hydroxyethyl 4 methyl 2 benzofuran1 3H one hydrochloride INTERMEDIATE 8 and 6 1H tetrazol 1 yl nicotinic acid INTERMEDIATE 14 .

5 1R 2 7 6 1H Tetrazol 1 yl nicotinoyl 2 7 diazaspiro 4.5 decan 2 yl 1 hydroxyethyl 4 methylisobenzofuran 1 3H one was prepared in a similar fashion to that described for the synthesis of EXAMPLE 3 starting from 5 1R 2 2 7 diazaspiro 4.5 dec 2 yl 1 hydroxyethyl 4 methyl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one hydrochloride INTERMEDIATE 3 and 6 1H tetrazol 1 yl nicotinic acid INTERMEDIATE 14 .

5 1R 2 5 6 1H Tetrazol 1 yl nicotinoyl 1H pyrrolo 3 4 c  yridine 2 3H 3aH 4H 5H 6H 7H 7aH yl 1 hydroxyethyl 4 methylisobenzofuran 1 3H one was prepared in a similar fashion to that described for the synthesis of EXAMPLE 13 starting from 5 1R 1 hydroxy 2 octahydro 2H pyrrolo 3 4 c pyridine 2 yl ethyl 4 methyl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one hydrochloride INTERMEDIATE 5 and 6 1H tetrazol 1 yl nicotinic acid INTERMEDIATE 14 .

5 1R 2 5 5 1H tetrazol 1 yl picolinoyl hexahydropyrrolo 3 4 b pyrrol 1 2H yl 1 hydroxyethyl 4 methylisobenzofuran 1 3H one was prepared in a similar fashion to that described for the synthesis of EXAMPLE 13 starting from 5 1R 2 hexahydropyrrolo 3 4 b pyrrol 1 2H yl 1 hydroxyethyl 4 methyl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one hydrochloride INTERMEDIATE 6 and 5 1H tetrazol 1 yl nicotinic acid INTERMEDIATE 15 .

5 1R 2 5 6 1H tetrazol 1 yl picolinoyl hexahydropyrrolo 3 4 b pyrrol 1 2H yl 1 hydroxyethyl 4 methylisobenzofuran 1 3H one was prepared in a similar fashion to that described for the synthesis of EXAMPLE 13 starting from 5 1R 2 hexahydropyrrolo 3 4 b pyrrol 1 2H yl 1 hydroxyethyl 4 methyl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one hydrochloride INTERMEDIATE 6 and 6 1H tetrazol 1 yl nicotinic acid INTERMEDIATE 14 .

5 1R 1 Hydroxy 2 1 3 methyl 4 1H tetrazol 1 yl phenylsulfonyl 1 7 diazaspiro 4.4 nonan 7 yl ethyl 4 methylisobenzofuran 1 3H one was prepared in a similar fashion to that described for the synthesis of EXAMPLE 8 starting from 5 1R 1 hydroxy 2 1 7 diazaspiro 4.4 nonan 1 yl ethyl 4 methylisobenzofuran 1 3H one hydrochloride INTERMEDIATE 16 and commercially available 3 methyl 4 1H tetrazol 1 yl benzene 1 sulfonyl chloride.

5 1R 1 Hydroxy 2 1 4 1H tetrazol 1 yl phenylsulfonyl 1 7 diazaspiro 4.4 nonan 7 yl ethyl 4 methylisobenzofuran 1 3H one was prepared in a similar fashion to that described for the synthesis of EXAMPLE 8 starting from 5 1R 1 hydroxy 2 1 7 diazaspiro 4.4 nonan 1 yl ethyl 4 methylisobenzofuran 1 3H one hydrochloride INTERMEDIATE 16 and commercially available 4 1H tetrazol 1 yl benzene 1 sulfonyl chloride.

5 1R 2 5 4 1H Tetrazol 1 yl phenylsulfonyl hexahydropyrrolo 3 4 b pyrrol 1 2H yl 1 hydroxyethyl 4 methylisobenzofuran 1 3H one was prepared in a similar fashion to that described for the synthesis of EXAMPLE 8 starting from 5 1R 2 hexahydropyrrolo 3 4 b pyrrol 1 2H yl 1 hydroxyethyl 4 methyl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one hydrochloride INTERMEDIATE 6 and commercially available 4 1H tetrazol 1 yl benzene 1 sulfonyl chloride.

5 1R 1 Hydroxy 2 8 6 methylsulfonyl nicotinoyl 2 8 diazaspiro 5.5 undecan 2 yl ethyl 4 methylisobenzofuran 1 3H one was prepared in a similar fashion to that described for the synthesis of EXAMPLE 13 starting from 5 R 2 2 8 diazaspiro 5.5 undec 2 yl 1 hydroxyethyl 4 methyl 2 benzofuran1 3H one hydrochloride INTERMEDIATE 8 and 6 methylsulfonyl nicotinic acid.

6 1 Hydroxy 2 3 R 2 hydroxy 2 4 methyl 1 oxo 1 3 dihydroisobenzofuran 5 yl ethyl 3 6 diazabicyclo 3.2.0 heptan 6 yl ethyl nicotinonitrile was prepared in a similar fashion to that described for the synthesis of EXAMPLE 1 starting from the faster eluting isomer of 5 1R 2 3 6 Diazabicyclo 3.2.0 heptan 3 yl 1 hydroxyethyl 4 methylisobenzofuran 1 3H one hydrochloride INTERMEDIATE 17 A and the slower eluting diastereomer of 6 oxiran 2 yl pyridine 3 carbonitrile INTERMEDIATE 11 .

6 1 Hydroxy 2 3 R 2 hydroxy 2 4 methyl 1 oxo 1 3 dihydroisobenzofuran 5 yl ethyl 3 6 diazabicyclo 3.2.0 heptan 6 yl ethyl nicotinonitrile was prepared in a similar fashion to that described for the synthesis of EXAMPLE 1 starting from the slower eluting isomer of 5 1R 2 3 6 Diazabicyclo 3.2.0 heptan 3 yl 1 hydroxyethyl 4 methylisobenzofuran 1 3H one hydrochloride INTERMEDIATE 17 B and the slower eluting diastereomer of 6 oxiran 2 yl pyridine 3 carbonitrile INTERMEDIATE 11 .

6 1 Hydroxy 2 6 R 2 hydroxy 2 4 methyl 1 oxo 1 3 dihydroisobenzofuran 5 yl ethyl 3 6 diazabicyclo 3.2.0 heptan 3 yl ethyl 4 methoxynicotinonitrile was prepared in a similar fashion to that described for the synthesis of EXAMPLE 1 starting from the faster eluting isomer 6 1S 2 3 6 Diazabicyclo 3.2.0 heptan 3 yl 1 hydroxyethyl 4 methoxynicotinonitrile hydrochloride INTERMEDIATE 18 A and 4 methyl 5 2R oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one INTERMEDIATE 2B .

6 1 Hydroxy 2 6 R 2 hydroxy 2 4 methyl 1 oxo 1 3 dihydroisobenzofuran 5 yl ethyl 3 6 diazabicyclo 3.2.0 heptan 3 yl ethyl 4 methoxynicotinonitrile was prepared in a similar fashion to that described for the synthesis of EXAMPLE 1 starting the slower eluting isomer 6 1S 2 3 6 Diazabicyclo 3.2.0 heptan 3 yl 1 hydroxyethyl 4 methoxynicotinonitrile hydrochloride INTERMEDIATE 18 B and 4 methyl 5 2R oxiran 2 yl 2 benzofuran 1 3H one INTERMEDIATE 2B .

Several assays may be used to measure functional inhibition of the ROMK channel by compounds of the instant invention. One assay that can be used is an electrophysiology assay that measures the electrical current that is generated as potassium permeates through the channel. Another ROMK functional assay makes use of the ability of thallium to permeate through open ROMK channels and increase the fluorescence of a dye previously loaded into the cells. Under control conditions cells loaded with dye and exposed to thallium containing medium display a time dependent increase in fluorescence the rate of which depends on number of functional channels. When cells are incubated in the presence of a channel inhibitor the increase in fluorescence is attenuated in a concentration dependent manner and ICvalues of inhibition by compounds can be accurately determined. This assay has been established with cell lines expressing either human or rat ROMK channels and operates in 384 well format.

Block of Kir1.1 ROMK1 currents was examined by whole cell voltage clamp Hamill et. al. Pfluegers Archives 391 85 100 1981 using the IonWorks Quattro automated electrophysiology platform Molecular Devices Sunnyvale Calif. . Chinese hamster ovary cells stably expressing Kir1.1 channels were maintained in T 75 flasks in cell culture media in a humidified 10 COincubator at 37 C. Prior to an experiment Kir1.1 expression was induced by overnight incubation with 1 mM sodium butyrate. On the day of the experiment cells were dissociated with 2.5 ml of Versene Invitrogen 15040 066 for approximately 6 minutes at 37 C. and suspended in 10 ml of bath solution containing in mM 150 NaCl 10 KCl 2.7 CaCl 0.5 MgCl 5 HEPES pH 7.4. After centrifugation the cell pellet was resuspended in approximately 4.0 ml of bath solution and placed in the IonWorks instrument. The intracellular solution consisted of in mM 80 K gluconate 40 KCl 20 KF 3.2 MgCl 3 EGTA 5 Hepes pH 7.4. Electrical access to the cytoplasm was achieved by perforation in 0.13 mg ml amphotericin B for 4 minutes. Amphotericin B Sigma A 4888 was prepared as a 40 mg ml solution in DMSO.

Voltage protocols and current recordings were performed using the IonWorks HT software hardware system. Currents were sampled at 1 kHz. No correction for liquid junction potentials was used. The test pulse consisting of a 100 ms step to 0 mV from a holding potential of 70 mV followed by a 100 ms voltage ramp from 70 mV to 70 mV was applied before and after a 6 minutes compound incubation period. Test compounds were prepared by diluting DMSO stock solutions into the bath solution at 3 the final concentration and placed in the instrument in 96 well polypropylene plates. Current amplitudes were measured using the IonWorks software. To assess compound potency the fractional block during the voltage step to 0 mV was calculated in Microsoft Excel Microsoft Redmond Calif. and dose response curves were fitted with Igor Pro 4.0 WaveMetrics Lake Oswego Oreg. . Normally a control compound is included to support that the assay is giving consistent results compared to previous measurements although the control is not required to obtain the results for the test compounds. The control was a compound of Formula I of the present invention preferably with an ICpotency of less than 1 M in this assay or another compound outside the scope of Formula I that has an ICpotency in this assay of less than 1 M.

Compounds of the Examples were tested in the electrophysiology assay and found to have a therapeutic level of potency.

HEK293 cells stably expressing hROMK hK1.1 were grown at 37 C. in a 10 COhumidified incubator in complete growth media Dulbecco s Modified Eagle Medium supplemented with non essential amino acids Penicillin Streptomycin Glutamine G418 and FBS. At 80 confluency the media was aspirated from the flask and the sample was rinsed with 10 ml Calcium Magnesium free PBS. 5 ml of 1 trypsin prepared in Ca Mg Free PBS was added to a T 225 flask and the flask was returned to 37 C. COincubator for 2 3 minutes. To dislodge the cell the side of the flask was gently banged with a hand. The cells were triturated completely and then transferred to 25 ml complete media. The sample was then centrifuged at 1 500 rpm for 6 minutes followed by resuspension in complete growth media and then cell concentration was determined. For typical re seeding 4E6 cells T 225 flask were found to attain 80 confluency in 4 days. Under ideal growth conditions and appropriate tissue culture practices this cell line is stable for 40 45 passages.

The ROMK channel functional thallium flux assay is performed in 384 wells using the FLIPR Tetra instrument. HEK hKir1.1 cells are seeded in Poly D Lysine microplates and kept in a 37 C. 10 COincubator overnight. On the day of the experiment the growth media is replaced with the FluxOR reagent loading buffer and incubated protected from light at ambient temperature 23 25 C. for 90 min. The loading buffer is replaced with assay buffer test compound followed by 30 min incubation at ambient temperature where the Thallium Potassium stimulant is added to the microplate.

The fluorescence intensity of wells containing 3 M of a standard control ROMK inhibitor of the present invention is used to define the ROMK sensitive component of thallium flux. Fluorescence in the presence of test compounds is normalized to control values to provide fluorescence change. ICvalues represent the concentration of compound that inhibits 50 of the ROMK thallium flux signal.

Normally a control compound is included to support that the assay is giving consistent results compared to previous measurements although the control is not required to obtain the results for the test compounds. The control can be a compound of Formula I of the present invention preferably with an ICpotency of less than 1 M in this assay. Alternatively the control could be another compound outside the scope of Formula I that has an ICpotency in this assay of less than 1 M.

Representative examples of data collected for compounds of the present invention using the Electrophysiology and Thallium Flux Assays are shown in Table 1 below.

While the invention has been described with reference to certain particular embodiments thereof numerous alternative embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the teachings described herein. Recitation or depiction of a specific compound in the claims i.e. a species without a specific stereoconfiguration designation or with such a designation for less than all chiral centers is intended to encompass the racemate racemic mixtures each individual enantiomer a diastereoisomeric mixture and each individual diastereomer of the compound where such forms are possible due to the presence of one or more asymmetric centers. All patents patent applications and publications cited herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

