---

title: Generating search results based on determined relationships between data objects and user connections to identified destinations
abstract: A search system generates an ordered list of destination targets including identified individuals and data objects, based on applying a user context to an information context and to a connection context. The user context identifies a search context (i.e., the information the user is seeking) relative to an identity of the user, and the information context identifies destinations accessible by the user, including data objects and communications-based actions (e.g., voice over IP telephony calls, instant messaging session transcripts, etc.). The connection context identifies relationships between chosen destinations throughout the system, and the strength of those relationships determined from artifacts of the chosen destinations: the connection context is updated based on artifact detection. The portion of the connection context that is relevant to the user context is used to order the portion of the information context that is relevant to the user context, resulting in the ordered list of destination targets.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08868586&OS=08868586&RS=08868586
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 08868586
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120619
---
This application is a continuation of commonly assigned copending U.S. application Ser. No. 13 005 944 filed Jan. 13 2011 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 288 275 filed Nov. 29 2005 and issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 895 223 on Feb. 22 2011.

The present invention relates to search systems. In particular the present invention relates to systems such as web based search resources that respond to a request for information by presenting to a user an ordered list of likely search results that enable a user to reach a desired destination.

Businesses and organizations spend substantial resources on an annual basis in order to employ information systems that improve the availability and accessibility of information relevant to specific needs. Early information systems focused on database management schemes where information was stored and classified using database management systems in order to obtain search results in response to specific database queries. Exemplary database management system vendors have included Oracle Corporation IBM Informix Sybase Microsoft e.g. Access and SQL Server etc. Such database management systems however required some knowledge of the database query syntax the organizational structure of the database and knowledge of the available search keys for performing a database query. Hence the earlier database management systems required some user expertise rendering such systems less user friendly for less experienced users.

More recent search technologies have employed a web based search model where corporate directories can be searched using a web based search model. For example companies such as IBM Google and X1 have created context search engines which consolidate and present data based on user queries. For example is a diagram of a web page displaying a search result in response to a search query utilizing search technology available from Google Inc. for example at the website address maps.google.com . As illustrated in the search result is displayed in the form of a location on a map where the location is determined based on applying the search query to a map database illustrated on the web page as originating from NAVTEQ . The web page includes additional search links that enables a user to further refine the search for example by entering a business type as a secondary query in order to identify secondary search results illustrated in that are based on the context of the primary search results

Consequently a particularly advantageous feature of existing search technologies is the availability of applying context information that reorders priorities of information as usage patterns of the search results change. In addition existing search technologies utilize information reputation where user selection in response to a search query is sent as a feedback mechanism to the search engine to assist the search engine as identifying the user selection as a better response to the search query.

A fundamental deficiency of the above described search technologies is that the search technology performs a search of stored data such as database records or static web objects. However a fundamental component of business operations involves identifying and locating individuals who are able to solve a relevant business problem. Businesses invariably rely on individual persons or groups of persons who are recognized as being experts on a given business matter. For this reason businesses and other organizations establish management hierarchies and organizational structures in order to classify individual persons as being associated with or experts on a given business matter.

Consequently software based systems have been developed to improve the ability of businesses and other organizations to provide reliable techniques for storing the classification of individual persons relative to business matters. For example software applications known as contact managers have been used in order to enable an individual to maintain records of individuals and their respective attributes. Contact manager programs such as Microsoft Office Outlook from Microsoft Corp. and Palm desktop from Palm Source Inc. enable an individual user to maintain contact records of persons deemed relevant by the user i.e. contacts each record enabling the user to input and store the corresponding information related to the contact such as telephone number address e mail and notes related to the contact. The contact managers also include search capabilities enabling the user to identify a contact based on entering a search query. In all cases however the contact manager applications require manual input of data for the contacts with limited group sharing based on the system.

As apparent from the foregoing however if there is no explicit reference to the individual as being relevant to a given business problem e.g. for example based on an organizational chart or in a contact manager the ability to identify that individual as being essential to solving a given business problem may not be known without collective knowledge within the business. Hence problem solving techniques within a business often may begin with announcements e.g. mass e mails inquiring if anyone knows a person knowledgeable on the given business problem.

Another form of a contact manager is present in call center applications where a business such as a customer support center integrates all of its operations into a single system which monitors calls transactions and integrates the transactions within a knowledge database. This variation of a database system however typically relies on a highly structured database and therefore does not really apply itself to general business cases where an employee is attempting to find an expert for a given business issue.

Hence existing technologies have concentrated either on user information e.g. database or web searching or user communications e.g. identifying attributes of a contact or an incoming calling party at a call center .

In view of the foregoing there is a need for an arrangement that integrates the context based search abilities of existing search technologies with contact based technologies that identify contacts that are responsible for information or that identify historical transactions associated with an individual. In particular there is a need for an arrangement that enables context based searching to be performed not only based on searching for relevant data objects but also based on searching user associations having been established based on prior transactions among users.

In other words every action performed by an individual can be viewed as a transaction that may establish an association between seemingly unrelated objects for example the individual viewing a document and immediately thereafter initiating a phone call to a destination party. If the transactions of viewing the document for a given length of time and placing the phone call to the destination party for another length of time can be recorded as respective artifacts of the individual acts including any time interval between viewing the document and initiating the phone call then over time the evaluation of multiple artifacts relative to viewing the document and placing phone calls to that same destination party may establish a strong correlation between the specific document and the destination party. Consequently it would be highly desirable that such a strong correlation between the specific document and the destination party would be reflected in any search for the specific document enabling the user performing a search query to learn of the strong correlation of the destination party to the specific document.

Hence there is a need for an arrangement that enables a system to perform searches not only based on existing data objects e.g. database entries web objects etc. but also based on artifacts that represent human decisions in creating and establishing associations between existing data objects and individuals targeted as necessary for solving a business solution.

There also is a need for an arrangement that enables a system to perform searches on behalf of the user where the search result includes individuals having been identified by the system based on established associations between the identified individuals and searched objects in other words the search result includes identified individuals without the need for any prior knowledge of any of the identified individuals by the user performing the search.

These and other needs are attained by the present invention where a search system for a user performing a search generates an ordered list of destination targets including identified individuals and data objects based on applying a user context to an information context identifying information and individuals reachable in the system by the user and applying the user context to a connection context identifying relationships between chosen destinations throughout the system. The user context identifies the information the user is seeking i.e. the search context relative to the identity of the user and the information context identifies destinations accessible by the user including data objects and communications based actions e.g. voice over IP telephony calls instant messaging chat session transcripts . The connection context identifies relationships at least between prior search contexts and chosen destinations including data objects and destination addresses for individuals and the strength of those relationships determined from artifacts of the chosen destinations. The portion of the connection context that is relevant to the user context is used to order the portion of the information context that is relevant to the user context resulting in the ordered list of destination targets.

The connection context is established based on identifying artifacts of user actions that reflect the relationships between the chosen destinations including chosen destinations having been chosen independent of any search result e.g. initiating a Voice over IP Phone call sending an e mail message paging message Instant Message etc. . A relationship also may be established between a prior search result and a chosen destinations having been identified from the prior search result. The aggregation of the artifacts determine the strength of the relationships enabling the portion of the information context that is relevant to the user context to be ordered according to the strength of the relationships that are relevant to the user context.

Hence the search system generates an ordered list of destination targets for the user based on the user context and the relationships having been established between chosen destinations as well as between prior search contexts and chosen destinations where the destination targets include both data objects and identified individuals. Hence organizations now can deploy search systems that automatically ascertain relationships between search contexts and individuals providing a comprehensive solution for identifying the most valuable destination targets for a specific issue the search context customized for a specific user the user context .

One aspect of the present invention includes a method for searching a system. The method includes receiving a user context that identifies a search context relative to an identity of a user seeking a search result. The method also includes identifying a portion of a connection context as relevant to the user context the connection context identifies relationships between chosen destinations reachable throughout the system each of the relationships has a strength determined from artifacts of the chosen destinations and a subset of the artifacts identify destinations having been chosen independent of any search result. The method also includes generating as the search result an ordered list of destination targets including selected identified individuals and selected data objects determined as relevant to the user context including ordering the ordered list according to the portion of the connection context. Hence the ordered list includes destination targets based on identified relationships between chosen destinations throughout the system even if some the chosen destinations had never been accessed from a search result consequently the ordered list of destination targets is based on relationships and not limited to prior search results.

Another aspect of the invention provides a method in a system providing data objects and search services to at least one user. The method includes detecting artifacts representing the user accessing chosen destinations throughout the system the chosen destinations include data objects and address identifiers for reaching identified individuals. The method also includes updating a connection context that identifies relationships between the chosen destinations. The updating can be performed by 1 establishing a relationship between first and second chosen destinations based on determining a correlation between the artifacts associated with the first and second destinations or 2 updating the relationship between the first and second chosen destinations based on subsequent artifacts associated with the first and second destinations indicating selection by the user subsequent to the establishment of the corresponding relationship. Hence the determination of a correlation between the artifacts establishes a relationship that can be relied on for context based searching where the relationship is further refined e.g. strengthened or reduced based on subsequent artifacts.

Additional advantages and novel features of the invention will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon examination of the following or may be learned by practice of the invention. The advantages of the present invention may be realized and attained by means of instrumentalities and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

According to the disclosed embodiment search results are obtained based not only on information available to the user but also on identified relationships between chosen destinations throughout the network where the term chosen destinations refers to any destination in the network e.g. a data object destination address for an individual via a specific device that has been chosen i.e. selected for access or retrieval by a user of the network . As illustrated in chosen destinations can be in many forms depending on the specific user transaction and the context of the transaction.

As illustrated in the information sources provide various types of information to the user depending on the user device e.g. etc. and the information being requested. For example a given information source may be implemented in the form of an access server configured for providing user access to information according to a prescribed device protocol e.g. a call manager providing network access to a wired or wireless IP telephone a paging server providing network access with a pager or wireless e mail device a unified client e mail or instant messaging server the meeting server etc. alternately the information source may be implemented as an information server configured for supplying requested information to the user in response to a specific request e.g. the directory database server the voicemail server transcripts or diagrams from the meeting server e mail messages or instant messaging transcripts from the e mail or instant messaging server etc. .

As illustrated in the chosen destinations are recognized to have relationships among each other based on user transactions . In particular user transactions can be detected in the form of artifacts e.g. placing a phone call to a chosen destination accessing an e mail message as a chosen destination accessing a web page or other web object as a chosen destination etc. . The relationships between chosen destinations are established by the context correlation resource or any other network element configured for monitoring network activity and identifying network relationships such as the Application Oriented Network System AONS . An example of the AONS is the commercially available Application Oriented Network AON technology from Cisco Systems Inc. including for example the commercially available Cisco Catalyst 6500 Series AON module and the Cisco 2600 2800 3700 3800 series AON module.

The relationships between chosen destinations are established by the context correlation resource or the AONS based on determining a correlation between the artifacts of user actions associated with the respective destinations. As illustrated in the information with respect to the relationships between the chosen destinations including identification of the chosen destinations the nature of the relationship the strength of the relationship the quality of the relationship etc. can be stored as metadata in the connection context storage .

At a minimum the context correlation resource or the AONS may store the connection context metadata in the connection context storage as tuples that identify the two related chosen destinations e.g. and in this case the correlation strength between the two related chosen destinations e.g. and can be identified based on the number of times that the same tuples e.g. and are stored in the connection context storage hence the strength could be determined based on identifying the number of times that the same tuples e.g. and are stored. More sophisticated storage techniques may include the context correlation resource or the AONS storing metadata in the connection context storage that includes multiple fields for example the chosen destination identifiers the strength of the relationship using a prescribed quantifiable metric as well as any attributes that identify the nature in which the chosen destinations were accessed e.g. search context access device attributes user attributes etc. . As described below the connection context may include metadata that identifies the relationship between a prior search context and a chosen destination resulting from the corresponding search result.

The relationships are continually updated by the context correlation resource or the AONS based on subsequent detected artifacts that indicate the relative strength of the relationship. The subsequent detected artifacts may be based on independent events such as accessing an e mail followed by initiating a telephone call e.g. in the case of chosen destinations and or may be based on refining a prior search context by a user refining his or her search to a more precise context to narrow a prior search.

Hence the connection context storage includes metadata that identifies the connection context of the chosen destinations namely the relationships between the chosen destinations that are reachable throughout the system . The connection context includes both the relationships of chosen destinations that are independent of any search result as well as the relationships between prior search results and chosen destinations resulting from the search result.

As illustrated in the context correlation resource is configured for generating a search result based on identifying selected identified individuals and selected data objects from an information context . In particular the context correlation resource receives a user context that includes a search context and a user identity . The term user context refers to a search context that is relative to the identity of the user seeking a search result.

The connection context resource is implemented as executable code that is executed by a processor within a processor based device . One exemplary implementation would involve a user of a keyboard or pointing device having logged into the computer terminal with his or her identity entering a search string in this case the context correlation resource of could be implemented as a locally executable resource e.g. Google Desktop having a graphic user interface GUI that enables the user to enter a search query. Another exemplary implementation of the context correlation resource could involve the device being implemented as a web based search portal implemented on a web server including an HTTP interface that enables a registered user to send an HTTP post that includes the search context for example as illustrated with respect to the user identity may accompany the HTTP post implemented at the client device using a data structure referred to as a cookie or implemented as a server side data structure that determines the identity of the user based on prescribed parameters e.g. user device address etc. .

Still another exemplary implementation of receiving a user context may involve a combination of different services for example determining a user identity at a communications terminal based on presence information sent by the presence server of the presence server may determine the identity of the user at the terminal based on electronic detection of an employee badge or visitor badge worn by the user etc. In this case the terminal may be as simple as an electronic map offering directory or map services or an IP Phone that permits directory queries message access based on the presence information etc.

Still another exemplary implementation of receiving a user context may involve a third party request sent from one location with instructions to send the results on behalf of the user identity to the terminal in use by the user as detected by the presence server .

Hence the user context identifies relative to the identity of the user the search context that describes the information that the user is seeking.

In response to receiving the user context the context correlation resource identifies the selected identified individuals and the selected data objects that are relevant to the user context based on applying the user context to the information context stored in the information context storage . The information context is metadata that identifies all destinations in the system that are accessible by the user. In other words the information context identifies all the individuals and data objects that are accessible to the user via the various information sources .

The context correlation resource applies the user context to the information context in order to identify the portion of the information context that is relevant to the user context including the selected identified individuals and the selected data objects . The correlation context resource orders the portion of the information context relevant to the user context described below and presents the search results as an ordered list of destination targets.

Assuming that the ordered list of destination targets is presented to the user with an option to further refine the search and the user chooses to refine the search e.g. by narrowing the search query or choosing a hyperlink to select more like this the context correlation resource receives the updated user context as having an updated search context that reflects the refined search. Once the user accesses a chosen destination e.g. either by selecting a hyperlink within the ordered list of destination targets or by independently initiating a Voice over IP call the artifact of the user choosing the chosen destination is stored with the most recent updated search context as a prior search context within the connection context .

As apparent from the foregoing the prior search context can include at least the search context e.g. the search string with no attributes related to the user identity . The search context may include various search parameters including the search string time of day date etc. Certain anonymous user attributes also may be added to the prior search context for example user class e.g. engineer sales management or legal personnel as well as user device type device location etc. If desired the entire user context may be stored as the prior context including the user identity .

Hence the connection context identifies relationships between chosen destinations having been chosen independent of any search result and relationships between chosen destinations having been a destination target within a search result . As described previously the user context is applied to the information context in order to determine the portion that is relevant to the user context . The user context also is applied by the context correlation resource to the connection context in order to identify the portion of the connection context that is relevant to the user context .

The context correlation resource orders the portion of the information context that is relevant to the user context with the portion of the connection context that is relevant to the user context in order to generate the ordered list of destination targets illustrated in .

As described previously a user typically registers in step with the context correlation resource via a user device. The registration may be active e.g. user logs into the device executing the context correlation resource with user identifier and password or passive based on predetermined user assignment settings e.g. user device preconfigured to be used exclusively by the user . Note however that registration of the user s personal identity is not necessarily required as anonymous users also can utilize the disclosed search system. In this case access device registration may be substituted in place of user registration where the access device address is used to establish the user identity i.e. the anonymous user of the VoIP telephone having the device address 919 555 1234 and where access device location can be used to establish a relationship with other access devices e.g. access devices within a room access devices within a prescribed distance of each other etc. . In this case relationships can be established based on an anonymous user accessing the network using various access devices that are known to be located at the same office desk.

Hence use of the term user is applicable to both a registered user having registered according to step and an anonymous user that has not registered his or her personal identity but rather relies on the access device address to establish the user identity .

The context correlation resource registers in step with the various access devices for example based on registering an Application Programming Interface API with each of the devices. For example exemplary API commands for use by the information sources on behalf of the context correlation resource via the API may include commands such as download all log entries identifying prior device specific accesses by the user to chosen destinations synchronize chosen destinations notify context correlation resource upon detection of any updates to the information context e.g. user storing or modifying a file in the network notify context correlation resource upon detection of user accessing a chosen destination .

Consequently the registration by the context correlation resource with the information sources causes each information source to not only present the chosen destination to a user but also to notify the context correlation resource when the user is presented with the information i.e. the chosen destination . Alternatively if the AONS server is implemented in the network use of API registration may be unnecessary the AONS is configured for monitoring all data packets traversing the network and associating the packets with applications using the packets resulting in an intelligent management of transactions. Hence since the AONS tracks network activity and knows the information that is being sought by a user the AONS can independently update the relationships in the connection context storage based on detecting the artifacts in the form of packets sent to and from the user device.

Assume in step that the context correlation resource receives the user context based on the user of the user device having registered with the context correlation resource to establish user identity and entering a search string as the initial search context . As described previously the context correlation resource may be implemented as an executable software resource locally within the user s device or remotely as part of a web server providing search services. The context correlation resource applies in step the user context as a filter onto the information context in order to obtain the portion of the information context that is relevant to the user context . As recognized in the art the filtering of the information context may be based on sending queries to available information context of sources or retrieving cached filter results. The context correlation resource also applies the user context in step as a filter onto the connection context in order to obtain the portion of the connection context that is relevant to the user context .

The context correlation resource orders in step the information search results with the connection search results resulting in the ordered list of of likely destination targets including the data objects and the identified individuals . As indicated in step the context correlation resource also may insert artifact tags e.g. D D for identifying each destination target as well as an artifact tag e.g. U for identifying the original user context having generated the search result . If in step the user modifies or refines the user context U for example by refining the search context U or forwarding the search results to another user who inherits the search results but uses a different identity the context correlation resource repeats the search operations based on the updated user context e.g UU .

Assume that the user does not modify the search results in step but rather performs a destination choice D for example either selecting a hyperlink within the search result or by initiating a connection via a registered access device to a destination e.g. calling an individual using a voice over IP telephone . As noted previously each of the access devices are configured for notifying the context correlation resource with a message i.e. artifact in response to detecting an access by the user to the chosen destination according to the corresponding prescribed protocol step . Hence in the case of a voice over IP telephone call the call manager will specify the user initiating the phone call the destination party or phone number the time the phone call was initiated and possibly other attributes such as duration of the call and whether the call was transformed into a telephone conference etc. Other attributes also may include identifying whether the call record was stored as a transcript at a specified location. In the case of the user responding to a web based query the artifacts identifying the search result and the chosen link to the chosen destination may be sent to the context correlation resource as part of the HTTP post by the user in accessing the chosen destination via the search results.

In either case the context correlation resource adds the destination choice artifact D in step to the connection context enabling the correlation of the relationship between the user context U and the chosen destination D to be adjusted accordingly.

The relationship between chosen destinations and or between prior search contexts and chosen destinations can be established and updated by numerous methodologies. For example the context correlation resource or the AONS may identify that the same user accessed the chosen destinations and within a measured time interval the time interval between the user accessing the chosen destinations and in this example provides the correlation i.e. the logical distance that defines the relationship between the chosen destinations and . As described previously access of the chosen destinations and by the same user within a measured time interval may have been performed by distinct and independent access devices or .

Although a single instance of the relationship between the chosen destinations and illustrates a relatively weak correlation subsequent iterations between the chosen destinations especially by different users over time may in fact strengthen the relationship between the chosen destinations. Hence strong correlations may be established based on detecting numerous instances by different users where each user upon accessing the chosen destination e.g. an e mail within a short time interval e.g. 5 seconds accesses the chosen destination e.g. an engineer not identified in the e mail consequently over time a strong correlation may be established that identifies that the chosen destination is important in any access of the chosen destination such that any search for the chosen destination should include the chosen destination as a target destination.

Other techniques of establishing a relationship may include pattern recognition between different chosen destinations or any other metric that enables the correlation of the relationship to be expressed as a logical distance between the two chosen destinations.

According to the disclosed embodiment a search result is presented as an ordered list of destination targets including selected identified individuals and selected data objects that are determined as relevant to the user context including destinations having been chosen independent of any search result. Consequently the search result reflects associations having been established by users based on user actions independent of access device without the necessity of any manual entry or modification of database records.

While the disclosed embodiment has been described in connection with what is presently considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiment it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the disclosed embodiments but on the contrary is intended to cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements included within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

