---

title: Dynamically reconfigurable microstrip antenna
abstract: A dynamically-reconfigurable antenna having a microstrip patchwork radiating surface wherein individual radiating patches can be connected to and disconnected from each other via photoconductive interconnections between the radiating patches. Commands from software alternately turn light from light emitting sources on or off, the light or lack thereof being channeled from an underside layer of the antenna so as to enable or disable the photoconductive interconnections. The resultant connection or disconnection of the radiating patches will vary the antenna's frequency, bandwidth, and beam pointing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08605004&OS=08605004&RS=08605004
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Air Force
number: 08605004
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120124
---
This patent application claims the priority benefit of the filing date of provisional application Ser. No. 61 573 886 having been filed in the United States Patent and Trademark Office on Sep. 12 2011 and now incorporated by reference herein.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalty thereon.

This invention relates generally to the field of communications antennas. More specifically the present invention relates to electronically reconfigurable and beam steered planar antenna structures.

The development of antennas for use on moving platforms such as aircraft and ground vehicles has not been particularly difficult for low frequency applications where near omnidirectional antenna beam patterns provide sufficient radio frequency RF gain. However at higher frequencies an air or ground vehicle antenna must possess a degree of spatial directionality to achieve sufficient gain to close transmit and receive communications links.

Spatially directional antennas used in air and ground vehicle applications must also have beam steering capabilities in order to maintain line of sight communications. Where the dynamics are not too great beam steering on moving platforms has been accomplished by mechanical steering means. However when platform dynamics are high electronic beam phase shift steering is the only means that will suffice.

When airborne antenna applications will have an adverse impact on aerodynamics planar electronically phase shift steered antennas represent the only viable solution because they afford integration into the airframe with minimal disturbance to airflow. Conformal antennas provide the ultimate solution to integration into an airframe because conformal arrays can be shaped to match portions of an aircraft such as fuselages and even wing leading edges. The application of multiple conformal arrays also relaxes the requirements for phase steering because at any given time the conformal array pointed being oriented nearest to boresight can be selected to carry the communications link.

Moreover because antennas are generally designed to operate at a given relatively narrow frequency band by design their operational frequency range is generally fixed. Wide bandwidth antennas solve the problem of having to integrate a separate system of antenna arrays into an aircraft for each frequency band of interest. To the extent that a single antenna array can be reconfigured in real time to support multiple frequency bands of operation the better in terms of power weight and space.

What is needed therefore is a communications antenna system and structure that provides real time control over electronic beam steering and operational frequency band while possessing a simple planar structure with adaptability to conformal integration with a host platform.

Non patent reference to Maloney et al 1 discloses a method that addresses the physical size of antenna arrays by employing fragmented aperture techniques to provide controlled reception pattern antenna arrays having one quarter the footprint of conventional to arrays. Finite difference time domain code is applied to computationally model the fragmented aperture for optimization over gain steering bandwidth and physical dimension. While apparently successful in reducing array size for a given bandwidth the fragmented aperture technique does not provide the flexibility afforded by real time reconfigurability of either parameter.

Non patent reference to Georgia Institute of Technology 2 discloses a method that apparently creates a bandwidth of 33 to 1 in a planar antenna array of given size by exploiting the properties of mutual coupling between antenna elements. However nothing in this reference indicates that mutual coupling and therefore bandwidth may be varied in real time or that the mutual coupling properties are not dependent upon antenna structure planarity so as to make amenable to conformal applications.

Non patent reference to Syntonics LLC entitled Pixel Addressable Reconfigurable Conformal Antenna PARCA Software Defined Antenna 3 discloses a method for dynamically adjusting the operating frequency beamwidth and polarization while transmitting. The PARCA employs movable millimeter scale microstrip transmission line pixels with uniform size and dimension to create a rapidly pixel by pixel changeable antenna pattern upon command. While this reference apparently provides real time control of beam steering and bandwidth with adaptability to conformal applications the method of operation requires the physical movement of microstrip pixels into and out of alignment with the radiating elements plane with no disclosed means for providing such movement.

Non patent reference to Pringle et al 4 discloses a reconfigurable antenna array employing field effect transistors FETs as switches that interconnect radiating patches on the antenna s surface. To reduce control signal routing the FETs are overlaid by a corresponding array of light emitting diodes LEDs . The LED light illuminates a photo detector in parallel with the gate source junction of the FET causing the gate source voltage to drop thereby opening the FET switch so as to connect an adjacent radiating patch. As many radiating patches as are interconnected will define the instant configuration of the antenna. While this reference represents an advancement in the state of the art of reconfigurable antennas it has not overcome the necessary complexity of routing bias voltages to each and every FET nor the associated power consumption. Additionally the reference discloses that FET switches cause signal losses at microwave frequencies and that the metallic bias lines to each FET introduce scattering that distorts the antenna pattern.

What the prior art fails to provide and what is needed therefore is an antenna which 1. is steerable and reconfigurable in terms of operating bandwidth and radiation pattern 2. planarized yet suitable for conformal applications and 3. is minimally dependent upon active circuitry and physical and electrical interconnections that create signal loss and antenna distortion.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide an antenna which is electronically reconfigurable in operating frequency and bandwidth.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide an antenna which is electronically controllable in beam shape and pointing direction.

It is still a further object of the present invention to provide an antenna which features a thin planarized construction.

It is yet still a further object of the present invention to provide an antenna meeting all of the above objectives yet is adaptable to conformal installations on air land and sea vehicles.

An additional object of the present invention is to overcome the complexity of prior art physical and electrical interconnections between control structures and radiating structures.

Briefly stated the present invention achieves these and other objects by providing an antenna having a microstrip patchwork radiating surface wherein individual radiating patches can be connected to and disconnected from each other via photoconductive interconnections between the radiating patches. Commands from software alternately turn light from light emitting sources on or off the light or lack thereof being channeled from an underside layer of the antenna so as to enable or disable the photoconductive interconnections. The resultant connection or disconnection of the radiating patches will vary the antenna s frequency bandwidth and beam pointing.

In a fundamental embodiment of the present invention an antenna has a radiating layer a ground plane layer and a control layer where the radiating layer further has a plurality of radiating elements and a means for establishing and de establishing electrical connectivity between adjacent said radiating elements and a means for connection to a radio frequency transmission reception medium. The control layer has a plurality of means for producing and transmitting a control signal to said means for establishing and de establishing electrical connectivity. The ground plane layer cooperates between the radiating layer and the control layer so as to facilitate the propagation of the control signal.

Still according to a fundamental embodiment of the present invention an antenna has a top layer with a plurality of radiating elements an array of photoconductive interconnections disposing an interruptible electrical pathway between adjacent radiating elements and a means for connection to a radio frequency transmission reception medium. Antenna also has a bottom layer comprising a like array of light emitting sources and a middle layer ground plane having a like array of light transmissive channels. Each of the photoconductive interconnections each of the light emitting sources and each of the light transmissive channels are oriented so as to permit light from a light emitting source to pass through a corresponding light transmissive channel and into a corresponding photoconductive interconnection. Each of the light emitting sources is individually computer software controlled.

The above and other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following description read in conjunction with the accompanying drawings in which like reference numerals designate the same elements.

The present invention describes the design and fabrication of a planar antenna featuring a set of microstrip elements which can be dynamically interconnected and de interconnected so as to re pattern the radiating structure of the antenna in order to tune it over a broad frequency band as well as produce a wide range of beam shapes and pointing directions.

Referring to the antenna surface is uniformly covered with a dense array of individual very closely spaced electrically conductive segments or pixels preferably a thin metal layer and square in shape each joined to each of its adjacent segments by a comparatively narrow square or rectangular photoconductive connector which is in electrical contact with or actually overlaps any two adjacent metallic segments thus filling in the narrow gap between them. Each photoconductive connector is comprised of a photoconductive material made up of CdS or some variation thereof or substitution therefore which is optimized in chemical composition and physical structure of the connector to have a very high electrical conductivity when exposed to light and which becomes virtually non conductive in the absence of light. A brief literature search indicates that a dynamic range of up to 10 ie 0.1 ohm on state to 100K ohm off state is readily available with off the shelf photoconductive material technology.

Still referring to additionally a coplanar array of light emitting elements LEDs or laser diodes each of whose outputs is co aligned and confined to the area of its mating photoconductive connector is closely coupled to the underside of antenna surface i.e. non RF emitting side . Thus a continuous electrically conductive patch or pattern of patches comprised of the electrically conductive segments joined by their adjacent photoconductive connectors making up a microstrip antenna element or multiple elements as well as associated strip lines feeds etc. can be created on the antenna RF emitting surface by activating the corresponding pattern of LED s in the coplanar underside array .

With regard to routing signals into and out of the antenna one skilled in the art would note that numerous methods can be employed to establish connection of the antenna to a radio frequency transmission reception source including single or multiple connection points to the antenna. For example metallic segments similar in composition and thickness to metallic segments as well as on the same RF emitting receiving surface of antenna surface but being typically much larger in size and potentially of a different shape could be added for the purpose of providing RF entry point connections for connecting external RF cable or waveguide for transmitting power to the antenna or collecting power received by the antenna.

Additionally it may also be advantageous or desirable to incorporate fixed electrical elements not shown such as surface mounted components i.e. resistors capacitors inductors into antenna surface for purposes such as impedance matching.

Note that the required ground plane could be placed either above or below the plane of the LED array in the former case holes would be placed in the ground plane to allow the light from each LED to reach its corresponding photoconductive connector . It should further be understood that even though the front side of layer is typically referred to as the RF emitting side it could also function as an RF receiver or both emitter and receiver simultaneously.

The resolution of the conductive pattern on the antenna surface will be limited by the size of the individual photoconductively connected metallic segments which collectively comprise the active area s of the antenna. Basic physics requires that the size of the metallic segments be no larger than about 1 10 for the highest frequency supported in order not to sacrifice antenna efficiency. It is evident from the foregoing that any conductive shape having this limited resolution can be sequentially projected on the antenna surface at a rate only constrained by the time constant of the photoconductive material used to form the connections photoconductive connectors between the metallic segments . Thus although the time constant for existing photoconductors is relatively high compared to many semiconductor materials it is reasonable to assume that the connectors could be switched fast enough to reconfigure re pattern the antenna at a rate of at least ten to twenty times per second. This would be sufficient to support most applications such as an airborne ground or sea vehicle based satellite communications link for Communications On The Move.

To complete the antenna system of the present invention software control of the array of LEDs is utilized to pattern the antenna surface in response to user inputs such as frequency band beam shape including single or multiple beams and pointing direction as well as sensor feedback to correct for platform position motion and vibration. This problem is readily solvable using conventional software control system design and while the element of software control is part of the present invention the details for the implementation of any particular software control scheme is not disclosed herein.

Among the many benefits of the present invention is the apparent ease of large antenna area and large scale fabrication using established processing techniques. Unlike conventional phased array approaches the present invention could be orders of magnitude less expensive and complex. It would also have an inherently higher modulation bandwidth lower power consumption and be much thinner and lighter in weight. It would thus also be very easy to make conformal to almost any curvature and be well adapted to deployment on any airborne platform. Because these processing techniques are scalable to very small dimensions it should also be possible to fabricate an antenna that can operate efficiently up to at least 80 GHz.

Referring to both and depicts a preferred embodiment of the present invention showing what could be a whole or merely a small square portion of a large antenna implementation. The dimensions are somewhat relative only with actual dimensions dependent on desired maximum frequency properties of the materials employed antenna application and fabrication techniques used in manufacturing the antenna. Both and considered together depict an assembly of three basic layers and that comprise the antenna in the preferred embodiment. depicts the invention with the RF emitting side of the antenna facing while depicts the invention with the rear or non RF emitting LED array side facing. The three layers would be closely bonded together in the completed product thus forming a potentially very thin and possibly very flexible dynamically reconfigurable antenna under software control.

Again referring to and note first that elements and represent any of the metallic segments or photoconductive connector components respectively comprising the front RF emitting surface of the antenna. These are essentially deposited on to the emitting surface . The emitting surface is a sheet of dielectric material which is either transparent to the light emitted from the LEDs contained in the non RF emitting LED array side or alternately perforated with a plurality of holes being located to correspond to each LED to allow light from each LED to illuminate its corresponding photoconductive connector which electrically bridges the gap between each metallic segment on the antenna RF emitting surface . Middle layer is a metallic sheet which forms the ground plane of the antenna. The middle layer ground plane contains an array of through holes being located to correspond to each LED and photoconductive connector to allow light from the LEDs to illuminate the photoconductive connectors causing an electrically conductive path to form between corresponding adjacent metallic segments when given LEDs are turned on by software control. The array of LEDs corresponding to through holes and photoconductive connectors are resident on the LED array layer which is a sheet of appropriate material to contain the LEDs and preferably as well as the power and control circuitry necessary to interface with software commands that create the desired lighted antenna image pattern on the array of LEDs and thus the corresponding electrically conductive pattern from the metallic segments on the radiating surface of the antenna.

A very simple example of this relationship is shown in in which four metallic segments comprising the upper right hand corner shaded black of the antenna radiating surface are depicted as being melded into one electrically continuous unit by light emitted by the four shaded black LEDs shown in the upper right hand corner of the array of LEDs layer with the light passing through corresponding through holes shaded black in the upper right hand corner of the middle layer ground plane and illuminating the corresponding four photoconductive connectors not shaded in the upper right hand corner of the antenna radiating surface . It is obvious that the array of LEDs shown could be replaced by any light emitting display of the appropriate spectral content and power needed to activate the photoconductive connectors .

How the antenna efficiency will be impacted by such parameters as metallic segment spacing and dynamic range i.e. on off conductivity ratio of available or realizable photoconductive materials that could be used to form the photoconductive connectors is as yet unknown. These parameters will be initially evaluated by constructing an equivalent circuit hardware model comprising a simple low frequency 1 GHz to 3 GHz single patch antenna comprised of a 3 by 3 or 4 by 4 metallic segment array connected by resistors of a value simulating either the on or off conductivity of a readily available photoconductive material that could be used to provide the same function over the same gap width between the segments. The antenna could be constructed from a double sided copper clad PC board one side etched machined to form the segments and the other left solid to form the ground plane . Clearance holes larger than the resistor lead on the ground plane side would be drilled in the board to solder the resistors between each adjacent segment with the resistors mounted from the ground plane side and each lead soldered to its corresponding segment on the segment side. This antenna will be tested in an anechoic chamber and its performance compared to a solid non segmented version of the same antenna.

Having described preferred embodiments of the invention with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to those precise embodiments and that various changes and modifications may be effected therein by one skilled in the art without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

