---

title: Network resource access using social networks
abstract: A network controller is enabled to control a network that is administered by a network administrator. The network controller provides the network administrator with an option to register an association with a social network from a plurality of available social networks. The network controller identifies a social network selected by the network administrator. The network controller receives, from the social network, a user identification associated with an account the network administrator in the first social network. The network controller receives from the network administrator configuration parameters for resources in the network. Based on the configuration parameters received from the network administrator, the network controller configures access to resources in the network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08943202&OS=08943202&RS=08943202
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 08943202
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120112
---
The following disclosure relates generally to managing access to network resources using information from social networks.

Network administrators sometimes allow different users different levels of access to network resources. The access granted to a user may be based on some unique information associated with the user e.g. using a log in and password combination or by checking the physical address associated with a user device. It may be efficient for the network administrator to use information from social networks to grant and manage access to the network resources.

In a general aspect a method for administering access to a network is implemented by enabling a network controller to control a first network that is administered by a network administrator. The network controller receives information on a first social network associated with the network administrator. The network controller establishes a communications session with the first social network. The network controller receives from the first social network a first user identification associated with the network administrator in the first social network. The network controller receives from the network administrator configuration parameters for resources in the first network. Based on the configuration parameters received from the network administrator the network controller configures access to resources in the first network.

The details of one or more aspects of the subject matter described in this specification are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other potential features and aspects of the subject matter will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

The wire line and wireless networks of today usually implement some form of access control which helps to protect users and resources on the networks from unauthorized user by outsiders who may otherwise gain access to the networks and also ensure that the networks do not get strained from too many users at the same time. In many cases such access control can provide tiered access in which a user may be permitted access to some resources on the network such as using wireless bandwidth to surf the Internet but be blocked from accessing other resources e.g. not permitted to use a printer that is connected to the network.

Access control to a network may been configured and managed by network administrators. For example the network administrator may use a web based graphical user interface GUI to configure routers and switches on the network to allow or block access to the network resources. In order to grant a user access to some network resource the network administrator may obtain some unique identifying information of the computing device of the user e.g. the physical MAC address of the network adapter coupled to the computing device and include the identifying information in a list of computing device addresses that are allowed access to the network resources. When the configuration information is thus updated for routers and switches in the network the user is able to access the network resource using the machine whose physical address was registered by the network administrator as described above. Users with computing devices whose physical addresses are not registered by the network administrator will not be able to access the network resource.

In another approach in order to access the network resources in a network a user may be required to create a username and password by visiting a registration site provided by the network administrator. The username and password are stored in a database associated with the network. When the user wishes to access the network the user is required to authenticate him her by entering the username and password correctly such that it matches the username and password stored in the database by visiting an authentication site that is linked to the database. The frequency with which the user is required to be authenticated may depend on the policies enforced in the network.

The various processes of enabling access to a network as described above can be cumbersome or impractical in some cases. For example if a user wishes to use multiple computing devices the network administrator will have to register the physical address of each computing device. For a large number of users the registration process may become unwieldy. On the other hand a user may find it frustrating to have to enter a user name and password every time the user wants to access some network resource. For a large number of users maintaining the database also may be expensive.

An alternative method of enabling access to network resources may be by using information from online social networking services frequently referred to as social networks. In this context a social network or social networking service is an online i.e. World Wide Web WWW based service platform or website that facilitates the creation of social relations among people who for example share interests and or activities. A social networking service includes a representation of each user e.g. a profile the user s social links and a variety of additional services. Social networking services provide means on their websites for users to interact over the Internet such as e mail and instant messaging IM . Social networking websites allow users to share ideas activities events and interests within their individual social networks. Examples of social networking services include FACEBOOK TWITTER and LINKEDIN. In the rest of the discussion the terms social network and social networking service are used interchangeably to mean the same thing.

A user of a social network creates a social graph that links the user to other users of the social network who are known or connected to the user. In some implementations the social graph information may be used to grant and manage access to the network resources on a physical network. For example the network administrator may have an account on a social networking website. The network administrator may use the social graph information associated with his or her account on the social networking website and allow access to the physical network to users who are present on the network administrator s social graph. To implement fine grained access to the network resources the network administrator may create and use different social graphs corresponding to different network resources. Using this approach the overhead of managing registration information and authenticating users for network access is transferred from the network administrator to the provider of the social networking service.

The LAN includes a physical network that is managed by the network administrator . Network user is a user who wishes to access the network resources in LAN . The network administrator grants or blocks access to network user by configuring the LAN using the network controller .

The LAN may be an individual home network that is administered by a resident living in a house. Alternatively the LAN may be an organizational network such as a network implemented in an office a university or a government agency or building. The LAN also may be a network in a public location such as in an airport a shopping mall or a store. In any or all the cases above the LAN may be either a wired network e.g. a wired Ethernet network or a wireless network e.g. IEEE 802.11 or Wi Fi network .

The network controller is a machine that is connected to the LAN and configured to manage the LAN . The network controller may be a computer a router or a suitable combination of a computer and a router. In some implementations the network controller is provided with antennas that are configured to generate radio frequency RF waves to enable implementation of the LAN e.g. antennas coupled to a router that transmit RF waves to create a wireless network associated with the LAN . The network controller may be provided with an input output system such as a monitor and a keyboard mouse combination to enable the network administrator to access and manage the configuration of the LAN using the network controller . The network controller may run one or more programs in hardware and or software that are configured to enable the network administrator to access detailed information on the LAN and to manage the LAN . The detailed information on the LAN may include configuration of the LAN current status of the LAN errors if any in the LAN and performance statistics of the LAN . The configuration of the LAN includes information on users that are allowed to access one or more features or services in the LAN .

The network administrator is an individual or entity who has been granted privileges to manage the LAN . In some implementations the network administrator may be a group of individuals each of whom has privileges to manage the LAN . For example the network administrator may be a house resident who manages an individual home network LAN in his her house. Alternatively the network administrator may be information technology IT support personnel in an organization such as in an office a university or a government agency or in a public building such in an airport a shopping mall or a store. In some implementations the network administrator creates the LAN apart from managing the LAN . In some other implementations the network administrator manages the LAN that was previously implemented by some other entity and or method. The network administrator manages access of different users to the LAN by configuring access rules for the LAN using the network controller . The network administrator configures access rules for the LAN by using social graphs from one or more social networking services which the network administrator links with the network controller .

The network user is an individual who wishes to use the network resources in the LAN . In some implementations the network user may wish to gain access to the network resources in the LAN for the long term e.g. a resident in a house with the LAN or a new employee in an office with the LAN . In some implementations the network user may wish to gain access to the network resources in the LAN for a short term e.g. a guest in a house with the LAN or a visitor to an organization with the LAN . The network user is able to access the network resources in the LAN when the network administrator configures the LAN to grant access to the network user . The resources in the LAN that the network user can access and the duration of access are based on the access configuration of the LAN as specified by the network administrator .

The data network connects the network controller to one or more social network servers . The data network may include a circuit switched data network a packet switched data network or any other network able to carry data for example Internet Protocol IP based or asynchronous transfer mode ATM based networks including wired or wireless networks. The data network may be configured to handle web traffic such as hypertext transfer protocol HTTP traffic and hypertext markup language HTML traffic. The data network may include the Internet Wide Area Networks WANs Local Area Networks LANs analog or digital wired and wireless networks e.g. IEEE 802.11 networks Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN and Digital Subscriber Line xDSL Third Generation 3G or Fourth Generation 4G mobile telecommunications networks a wired Ethernet network a private network such as an intranet radio television cable satellite and or any other delivery or tunneling mechanism for carrying data or any appropriate combination of such networks.

The social network server is a server hosting a social networking service. In one implementation the social network server may be a collection of servers hosting one or more social networking services. In some implementations the social network server may be a server that is configured to return web pages corresponding to the social networking service that is selected by the network administrator using the network controller . The web pages may include links to one or more social graphs that are used by the network administrator for configuring the LAN based on which user may access various network resources in the LAN .

The setup screen is presented for example when the network administrator configures the LAN for the first time. The setup screen allows the network administrator to select one or more social networking services that are to be used for managing access by users to the LAN . The network administrator can also access the setup screen whenever the network administrator wants to add or remove social networking services that are to be used for managing access to the LAN .

The setup screen is displayed for example upon the network administrator launching the network controller GUI on a monitor that is coupled to the network controller . When displayed in some implementations the setup screen presents an identifier for the network controller including a commercial name and model number for the network controller . However in some other implementations the identifier may not be present or it may provide information other than a commercial name and model number for the network controller . In some implementations the setup screen indicates a purpose for the setup screen e.g. that it is for Setup .

The setup screen presents a list of social networking services that are supported by the network controller i.e. social networking services with whom the network controller can communicate to retrieve information on the respective social graphs that can be used for configuring access to the LAN . In some implementations the list of social networking services are presented as tiles including icons of the supported social networking services. However in some other implementations the list may be presented as text or as textual hyperlinks or in any other suitable form.

The network administrator can select one or more of the supported social networking services by selecting the displayed icons corresponding to social networking services e.g. by clicking on the icons using a mouse and or keyboard that are coupled to the network controller . When the network administrator selects a social networking service the selection is indicated on the setup screen by the check mark . If network administrator selects more than one social networking service then multiple check marks will be displayed in proximity to the icons representing the selected social networking services. The setup screen provides the option to save the selection to the configuration of the network controller or to cancel the selection.

The setup screen allows the network administrator to configure the access that is granted to users in the LAN for each network resource in the LAN . The network controller may identify the network resources in the LAN and present them to the network administrator in the setup screen . For example the network resources identified by the network controller may be the outbound network local network Printer and network attached storage NAS which are presented in the Resource column .

In addition to the Resource column the network controller will present in the setup screen a column corresponding to each social networking service selected by the network administrator . For example if the network administrator selected social network A and social network B using the setup screen then the setup screen will include a column corresponding to social network A and a column corresponding to social network B.

Based upon the social networking services selected by the network administrator using the setup screen the network controller will contact the selected social networking services and obtain from them information on one or more groups that are associated with the account of the network administrator in each of the selected social networking services. In this context a group is a subset of a social graph of the network administrator in a social networking service. A group includes one or more other users of the social networking service who are connected on the social graph of the network administrator each of whom was added to the group explicitly by the network administrator . For example the network administrator may create or otherwise have a group Family in social network B. Out of all the users who are connected to the network administrator in the social network B the network administrator may allow users who are also family members to be included in the group Family. Similarly the network administrator may have in social network B a second group Friends which includes users whom the network administrator considers as friends. The network administrator may include a user who is in the social graph of network administrator in both the groups Family and Friends while another user may be included in one group and not the other while a third user may not be included in either group.

Subsequent to the network controller retrieving information from the social networking services selected by the network administrator including information on the groups of the network administrator the network controller provides the option to the network administrator to configure using setup screen the access to each resource in LAN based on the groups. For example based on the options provided the network administrator may select to allow users who are in groups Family or Friends in social network B to use the local network in LAN as indicated in the column corresponding to the resource local network . Therefore when a user attempts to access the local network in LAN the user will be allowed access if the network controller determines that the user is included in either of the groups Family or Friends that are associated with the user account of the network administrator in social network B.

The network administrator can configure the access to the same resource independently for different social networking services that are selected. For example for social network A the network administrator may allow users who are in group csco to use the local network as indicated in the column corresponding to the resource local network .

The network controller may provide the option to the network administrator to configure access to different resources independent of one another. For example the network administrator may select to deny access to any user of the social network A to network resources Printer and NAS as indicated by the icon . However with respect to social network B the network administrator may allow members of groups Family and Friends to use the Printer while allowing members of group Family to access the NAS as indicated by and respectively. For some network resource the network administrator may allow access to all users of the selected social networks irrespective of their inclusion in any group e.g. the outbound network is accessible by all users as indicated by .

Based on the settings that are configured by the network administrator using the setup screen the network controller checks when an user requests access to a network resource whether the user is included in at least one group that is allowed for the resource or whether the resource is allowed for all users or whether access to the resource is denied for all users of the social network associated with the requesting user. If the requesting user belongs to at least one group that is allowed for the resource or if the resource is allowed for all users of the selected social networks then the network controller grants the requesting user access to the resource. On the other hand if the configuration specifies that access to the resource be denied for all users who are affiliated with the social network of the requesting user then the network controller does not allow the requesting user to access the resource.

The registration screen is presented to the network user when the network user attempts to access the network resources in the LAN . For example the LAN may be a wireless LAN and a computing device of the network user may detect the wireless LAN when within wireless reception range of the LAN and automatically attempt to connect to the wireless LAN . The computing device of the network user may successfully establish a connection with the LAN which may trigger a notification on the computing device that it has to be registered on the LAN before it can send receive data or use any network resource. In some implementations the notification may be presented every time the network user connects to the LAN or at a frequency configured by the network administrator using the network controller e.g. once per day. In some other implementations the notification may be presented once at the first instance the computing device of the network user connects to the LAN . In such implementations once the computing device registers with the network controller the first time the network controller stores information uniquely associated with the computing device of the network user in its memory such that for every subsequent connection on the LAN from the same computing device the network controller can verify that the computing device is already registered e.g. using the physical address of the network adapter coupled to the computing device and therefore allow the computing device access to the LAN .

Once the computing device of the network user establishes a connection on the LAN and a notification is presented on the computing device indicating that it has to register the network user launches a web browser on the computing device in order to register. In some implementations when the web browser is launched the network controller presents the registration screen on the web browser. In some other implementations the network controller presents the registration screen using an application other than a web browser e.g. a standalone application that is used for configuring the parameters of the LAN . In such implementations the network controller may also present the setup screens and using the application that is different from a web browser.

The registration screen includes an identifier that displays information on the network controller for example the brand name and model number of the router that implements the network controller . The identifier indicates to the network user that the registration screen is presented by the network controller . However in some implementations the identifier may not be present or it may include additional information or it may include information that is different from the information described above.

The registration screen presents a list of icons corresponding to the social networking services that are supported by the network controller and includes information instructing the network user to select one of the social networking services in order to complete the registration. For example the registration screen presents the icons and corresponding to the social network A and social network B respectively. The social networking services whose icons are presented on the registration screen are the social networking services that are selected by the network administrator using the setup screen .

Based on the instructions provided by the information the network user selects one of the social networking services listed on the registration screen . The network user selects a social networking service by selecting the icon representing the corresponding social networking service e.g. the network user may click on icon to select social network A. The network user selects an icon by clicking on the icon highlighting the icon or by using some other suitable means.

In some implementations the social networking service selected by the network user is a social networking service that includes a user account associated with the network user . However in some other implementations the network user may not have a user account with any one of the social networking services presented on the registration screen . In such implementations the network user may first create an account with at least one of the social networking services presented on the registration screen using some alternative means and then return to the registration screen to complete registering with the network controller . Alternatively the network controller may provide the network user with an alternative means to register.

When the network user selects a social networking service from the registration screen the network controller establishes a connection to a server hosting the selected social networking service e.g. social network server . In some implementations the server hosting the selected social networking service may be a web server that is configured to process and display web pages and also configured to send information to the network controller included in web pages.

When the connection is established the server sends the registration screen to the network controller . The network controller presents the registration screen using the web browser on the computing device of network user . In some implementations the connection between the network controller and the server hosting the selected social networking service is secure i.e. the data exchanged between the network controller and the server may be authenticated and or encrypted using a predetermined standard security protocol that is supported by both the network controller and the server. For example the network controller and the server may exchange data over the established connection using OPEN AUTHORIZATION version 2.0 OAUTH2.0 protocol which enables the network controller and the server to share information without requiring them to know each other s credentials such as username and password. In other implementations the network controller and the server may exchange information securely using some other security protocol. In yet other implementations the connection between the network controller and the server may be unsecured such that data is exchanged in the open.

The contents of the registration screen may depend on the social networking service selected by the network user . For example the registration screen as shown in displays information associated with social network A based on the network user selecting social network A on registration screen . However if the network user selected social network B on registration screen the information displayed on the registration screen would be associated with social network B.

The information indicates to the network user that the network controller or an application associated with the network controller would like to access the account of the network user on the selected social networking service. In some implementations the information may also provide an option to the network user to create a user account on the selected social networking service if the network user does not have an account for example by providing a hyperlink to an account creation web page associated with the selected social networking service.

The registration screen provides a field for the network user to enter the username or email address associated with the user account of the network user on the selected social networking service. The registration screen provides a second field for the network user to enter the password associated with the user account of the network user on the selected social networking service. After entering the username or email address and password the network user gives permission to the social networking service to access the account of the network user and share the information with the network controller by clicking on the Allow button from the buttons . Alternatively the network user may decide not to continue with the process of registration for example if the network user does not wish to share the details of his her account on the selected social networking service. In such a case the network user may cancel the transaction by selecting the Deny button from the buttons .

In the event the network user provides the username or email and password associated with his her account on the selected social networking service and clicks the Allow button the server hosting the selected social networking service accesses the associated account of network user verifies whether the account exists. If the account exists the server sends to the network controller the user identifier user ID associated with the account of the network user . The network controller uses the user ID of the network user to verify the relationship between the network user and the network administrator i.e. whether the network user is in the social graph of the network administrator and which groups in the social graph of the network administrator includes the network user . The verification of inclusion of the network user in the groups associated with the network administrator helps the network controller determine whether to grant or deny the access requested by the network user based on the access configuration set by the network administrator using the setup screen .

The table may be implemented in memory associated with the network controller e.g. in a hard drive or long term flash memory coupled to a router implementing the network controller . The network controller may populate the table when the network administrator registers with the network controller . The information in the table is updated by the network controller whenever the network administrator updates the selection of social networking services and or updates the information associated with the selected social networking services. For example the table is updated whenever the network administrator adds a new social networking service that is supported by the network controller using the setup screen . The table is also updated whenever the network administrator removes a new social networking service that was previously selected. The table is also updated whenever the network administrator changes the user ID of the account associated with a selected social networking service e.g. the network administrator may remove a replace a supported user account with a different user account and therefore the user ID in column for the corresponding row of table will change.

The network controller uses the information in table to obtain the social graph information associated with the network administrator in a selected social networking service initially when the network administrator selects a social networking service using the setup screen . The network controller also uses the information in table to periodically refresh the social graph information associated with the network administrator in the selected social networking services. The social graph information associated with the network administrator in a social networking service may change with time for example as the network administrator creates or removes social circles from the social graph.

The table includes rows and . Associated with each row in the table are columns and listing respectively a supported network resource in the LAN a social networking service selected for the respective network resource and the groups in the selected social networking service that are allowed to access the respective resource in column . For example row in the table lists Printer in the resource column social network A in the social network column and Family and Friends in the group column . Therefore row indicates that users who are included in groups Family and Friends in the social graph of the network administrator in the social network A are allowed to access the network resource Printer in the LAN .

The table may be implemented in memory associated with the network controller e.g. in a hard drive or long term flash memory coupled to a router implementing the network controller . The network controller may populate the table using the information provided by the network administrator when the network administrator configures access to the network resources using the setup screen . The network controller may update the table periodically or at any time when the network administrator re configures access to the network resources using the setup screen .

The network controller uses the information in table to grant or deny access to various network resources when a network user registers with the network controller and requests access to one or more network resources. When the network user selects a supported social networking service and provides his her credentials corresponding to the selected social networking service for example using the registration screens and the server associated with the selected social networking service verifies the user account for the network user and sends to the network controller the user identifier user ID associated with the user account of the network user . The network controller uses the social graph of network administrator in the selected social networking service and the user ID of the network user to determine which groups in the respective social graph includes the network user . In some implementations the network controller sends the user ID of the network user to an application programming interface API associated with the selected social networking service to verify the existence of a relationship between the network user and the network controller . The API returns to the network controller verification whether a relationship exists and information on the groups in the social graph of the network administrator that include the network user .

The network controller checks using the table whether the social network selected by the network user is allowed for the particular network resource to which the network user is requesting access based on the information in columns and for the row in the table corresponding to the particular network resource. If the social network selected by the network user is allowed then the network controller checks whether the groups that include the network user as returned in the information from the API are allowed to access the network resource based on the information in column for the row in the table corresponding to the particular network resource. If at least one of the groups that include the network user is included in the column for the row in the table corresponding to the particular network resource then the network controller grants access to the network user to use the particular network resource. In addition the network controller stores information associated with the network user in a table in memory. However if the social network selected by the network user is not included in the column or if any of the groups that include the network user is not included in the column for the row in the table corresponding to the particular network resource then the network controller denies access to the network user .

The table may be implemented in memory associated with the network controller e.g. in a hard drive or long term flash memory coupled to a router implementing the network controller . The network controller populates the table using the information provided by the server sand the APIs associated with the social networking services selected by the network administrator . The user ID is provided by a server when the network user registers using registration screen . The API provides information on the groups that include the network user when the network controller sends the user ID of the network user to the API to verify the existence of a relationship between the network user and the network administrator and to find out the groups that include the network user . The information on the social network is obtained by the network controller when the network user selects a social network using the registration screen . The MAC address of the computing device associated with the network user may be obtained by the network controller from the initial access request message that is sent by the network user when connecting to the LAN . The valid until date and time may be computed by the network controller using an algorithm that is implemented in the network controller . Alternatively the valid until date and time may be computed based on configuration information provided by the network administrator .

Whenever a network user connects to the LAN and attempts to use one or more network resources the network controller checks the table to determine whether the particular network user is granted access to the network resources. The check may be performed by the network controller using for example the MAC address of the computing device using which the network user connects to the LAN . The network controller may also check whether the validity period of the access if previously granted has expired by checking the valid until column in the row corresponding to the MAC address. If the access is still valid for the particular computing device the network controller may check which resources are allowed for the social networking service and the groups associated with the network user based on the social networking service and group information in the row corresponding to the MAC address.

The network controller may periodically check the table and delete row entries whose valid until date and time are expired. For each row in the table the network controller also may periodically query the corresponding social networking service through its API to refresh the information on the groups in the social graph of the network administrator that include the user ID associated with the row. The frequency with which the network controller queries the social networking service may be based on a predetermined period.

The process is executed when the network controller receives log in information from the network administrator . For example the network administrator may enter using a monitor and keyboard mouse that are coupled to the router implementing the network controller the username and password corresponding to the account of the network administrator associated with the network controller . The network administrator enters the username and password in order to access the setup application of the network controller and to configure the access to the LAN .

Upon receiving the log in information from the network administrator the network controller checks whether the log in information is correct . For example the network controller may compare the username and password entered by the network administrator with the username and password corresponding to the account of the network administrator that is saved in memory of the network controller .

If the comparison returns a mismatch between either of the username and password entered by the network administrator and the information in the memory of the network controller the network controller generates an error . For example the network controller may display an error message on the monitor that is coupled to the network controller . In some implementations the network controller may provide an option to the network administrator to re enter the log in information at that time. In some other implementations the network controller may lock access to the configuration information of the LAN for a predetermined period of time and instruct the network administrator to attempt again after the lock out period has expired.

If the comparison returns a match between the log in information entered by the network administrator and the credentials stored in the memory of the network controller the network controller checks whether at least one social networking service is registered for the network administrator . The network controller may determine that the network administrator has previously registered and configured one or more social networking services. Based on such a determination the network controller presents a setup screen to the network administrator to allow the network administrator to configure access to the network resources .

On the other hand the network controller may determine that the network administrator has not yet registered and configured any social networking service. This may be the case for example when the network administrator is logging in to the network controller for the first time. In such an event the network controller provides the network administrator with a list of social networks for registering . For example the network controller may present the setup screen that displays icons corresponding to social networking services supported by the network controller .

The network administrator selects a social networking service from the setup screen . Based on the selections made by the network administrator the network controller determines the social network selected by the network administrator . The network administrator may select multiple social networking services from the setup screen . Accordingly the network controller may determine the multiple social networks selected by the network administrator. For each social network selected by the network administrator the network controller establishes a communications session with the selected social network . For example the network controller may establish a connection with the social network server that hosts a social networking service selected by the network administrator . The network controller establishes a separate connection with each server that hosts a different social networking service selected by the network administrator . In some implementations one or more of the connections may be secure connections for example using the OAUTH2.0 protocol while in some other implementations some or all of the connections may be unsecured connections.

Based on the connection established with a server hosting a selected social networking service the network controller receives a log in page from the server and presents the log in page for the selected social network on the monitor coupled to the network controller . For example the network controller may present a log in page with an interface that is similar to the registration screen . The log in page may include information indicating to the network administrator that the network controller or an application associated with the network controller would like to access the account of the network administrator on the selected social networking service. In some implementations the information may also provide an option to the network administrator to create a user account on the selected social networking service if the network administrator does not have an account for example by providing a hyperlink to an account creation web page of the selected social networking service.

Similar to the registration screen the log in page that is presented to the network administrator may provide a field for the network administrator to enter the username or email address associated with the user account of the network administrator on the selected social networking service. The log in page may also provide a field for the network administrator to enter the password associated with the user account of the network administrator on the selected social networking service. After entering the username or email address and password the network administrator gives permission to the social networking service to access the account of the network administrator and share the information with the network controller by selecting an Allow button or some other suitable interactive item provided on the log in page. The server hosting the selected social networking service accesses the associated account of network administrator and verifies whether the account exists. If the account exists the server sends to the network controller information related to the user account of the network administrator .

The network controller receives a user identifier user ID and information on groups associated with the account of the network administrator from the server hosting the selected social network . For example the connection between the network controller and the server hosting the selected social networking service may be established using an API provided by the selected social networking service. The API provides to the network controller the user ID of the account associated with the network administrator . The API may also provide to the network controller information on the groups that are associated with the user account of the network administrator on the social networking service.

The network controller stores the user ID and group information associated with the account of the network administrator . For example the network controller may store the user ID and the information on the groups that are provided by the API in a hard drive or long term flash memory coupled to a router implementing the network controller . The network controller may store the information in a table similar to the table .

Using the information provided by the API the network controller presents a setup screen to the network administrator to allow the network administrator to configure access to the network resources . For example the network controller may present a setup screen similar to the setup screen . The setup screen includes a listing of the network resources in the LAN . For each network resource the setup screen includes a field to specify which selected social networks are enabled to access the respective resource and another field to specify the identifiers of the groups in the selected social networks that are allowed to access the respective resource.

From the setup screen provided to the network administrator the network controller receives configuration parameters input by the network administrator for configuring access to the network resources . For example the network administrator may configure using the setup screen similar to the setup screen the network resources in the LAN and specify which social networks and corresponding groups are allowed to access each network resource.

The network controller saves the configuration information and configures the access to the network resources using the configuration information input by the network administrator . For example when the network administrator opts to save the settings entered through the setup screen the network controller saves the configuration information the hard drive or flash memory coupled to the network controller . The network controller may save the configuration information in the table . For the first time the network administrator enters configuration information for access to the network resources the network controller creates and populates the table . For every subsequent update to the configuration information for access to the network resources the network controller updates the table . When a network user requests access to a network resource the network controller checks which social networks and groups are allowed to access the requested network resource and allows or denies the request of the network user based on whether the social network And groups of the network user are in the allowed lists for the requested network resource.

The process is executed when the network controller receives an access request from the network user . For example a computing device of the network user may detect the wireless LAN when within wireless reception range of the LAN and automatically establish a connection with the LAN . The network user may attempt to access the network resources in the LAN e.g. the network user may attempt to print to a printer in the LAN . The network controller receives transmissions from the computing device of the network user indicating that the network user is attempting to access a particular resource on the LAN .

The network controller checks whether the user device is already registered . For example based on the transmission received from the computing device of the network user indicating that the network user is attempting to access a particular resource on the LAN the network controller may check whether the computing device of the network user is already registered. In one implementation the network controller performs the check by determining the MAC address of the computing device of the network user from the transmissions received from the computing device of the network user . The network controller checks in table whether the determined MAC address of the computing device of the network user is already present in the table . If there is a match with an existing MAC address in the table the network controller determines that the computing device of the network user is already registered.

In the network controller determines that the user device is registered the network controller looks up the access rights to the requested resource for the user associated with the user device . For example based on determining that the MAC address of the computing device of the network user is registered in table the network controller reads the corresponding row entry in the table and determines whether the entry for the network user is still valid by checking the valid until column . If the entry is valid the network controller checks whether the social network And groups corresponding to network user as specified in columns and respectively in the row entry are included in the allowed list of social networks and groups for the request network resource as specified in table . If the network controller determines that the social network And groups corresponding to network user are included in the allowed list of social networks and groups for the request network resource the network controller grants access to the user for the requested network resource . For example the network controller may allow a connection to be established between the computing device of the network user and the requested network resource and enable exchange of data between the computing device of the network user and the requested network resource.

However if the network controller determines that the entry for the network user in table has expired or that the social network or the groups corresponding to network user are not included in the allowed list of social networks and groups for the request network resource the network controller denies access to the user for the requested network resource and generates an error notification . The error notification may indicate that the request has been denied. In some implementations the network controller may present an option to the network user to register with a supported social network e.g. by using the registration screen .

On the other hand upon checking whether the user device is registered if the network controller determines that the user device is not registered the network controller provides the user with an option of entering his her credentials on a supported social network . For example when the computing device of the network user establishes a connection on the LAN a notification may be presented on the computing device that it has to be registered on the LAN before it can send receive data or use any network resource. The network user launches a web browser on the computing device in order to register and the network controller presents the registration screen on the web browser. The network controller presents a list of icons corresponding to the social networking services that are supported by the network controller on the registration screen . The network user selects a social networking service from the options displayed on registration screen and the network controller determines the social network selected by the user . Upon determining the social network selected by the user the network controller establishes a communications session with the selected social network . For example the network controller establishes a connection to a server hosting the selected social networking service e.g. social network server .

When the connection is established the server sends a log in page to the network controller . The network controller provides the user with the log in page for the selected social network . For example the network controller presents the registration screen via a web browser on the computing device of network user where the registration screen is originated by the server hosting the social networking service selected by the network user .

Upon the network user entering his her credentials for the selected social networking service on the registration screen the server hosting the selected social networking service accesses the associated account of network user and verifies whether the account exists. If the account exists the server sends to the network controller the user identifier user ID associated with the account of the network user . The network controller receives the user ID from the social network and then the network controller sends a query to the social network to determine the relationship between the network user and the network administrator . For example the network controller sends the user ID of the network user to the API provided by the social networking service selected by the network user to determine whether a relationship exists between the network user and the network administrator and also to determine which groups in the social graph of the network administrator includes the network user .

The API returns to the network controller verification whether a relationship exists and the groups in the social graph of the network administrator that include the network user . The network controller receives the relationship information from the API. In some implementations the network controller stores the relationship information if a relationship exists between the network user and the network administrator. For example the network controller may store the information associated with the account of the network user in the social networking service selected by the network user if the API verifies a relationship exists between the network administrator and the network user in the social networking service selected by the network user . The network controller stores the information in the table . The network controller may store the information even if the social networking service selected by the network user or the groups in the social graph of the network administrator that include the network user are not allowed to access the requested network resource. However in some other implementations the network controller stores the information associated with the account of the network user if the network controller determines that the social networking service selected by the network user and the groups in the social graph of the network administrator that include the network user are allowed to access the requested network resource.

The network controller uses the information provided by the API to look up the access rights for the network user for the requested resource and decides to grant or deny access based on determining whether the access rights for the network user are valid for the requested network resource as described earlier.

The disclosed and other examples can be implemented as one or more computer program products i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a computer readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. The implementations can include single or distributed processing of algorithms. The computer readable medium can be a machine readable storage device a machine readable storage substrate a memory device or a combination of one or more them. The term data processing apparatus encompasses all apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer or multiple processors or computers. The apparatus can include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system or a combination of one or more of them.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a standalone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this document can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer can include a processor for performing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer can also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Computer readable media suitable for storing computer program instructions and data can include all forms of nonvolatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices 

magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

While this document describe many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of an invention that is claimed or of what is claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular embodiments. Certain features that are described in this document in the context of separate embodiments can also be implemented in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment can also be implemented in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable sub combination. Moreover although features is described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination is directed to a sub combination or a variation of a sub combination. Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results.

Only a few examples and implementations are disclosed. Variations modifications and enhancements to the described examples and implementations and other implementations can be made based on what is disclosed.

