---

title: Indirect data searching on the internet
abstract: The present invention includes an Internet analysis process that includes initializing a data set, accessing a search engine to acquire search results, and parsing the search results, rather than a native search engine indexable resource, to output a conclusion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08832068&OS=08832068&RS=08832068
owner: Eye Street Research LLC
number: 08832068
owner_city: Leesburg
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120522
---
The present invention relates to the field of dynamic database searching and more specifically to the field of electronic data analysis.

Internet search engines store information from a vast array of web pages retrieved from the Internet typically implemented through the use of spiders or crawlers. To facilitate the search process the Internet search engines provide interfaces used to run queries against the indices they build from this information. Generally speaking Internet search engines build these indices by collecting URLs and following each URL on each page until all URLs for all web pages have been exhausted. During this process the contents of each web page are analyzed according to various and evolving criteria to determine how particular elements e.g. titles headings files links various meta data and the like and other related information should be indexed. This index allows information to be found quickly relevantly and broadly from a single source.

The automated collection of data available on the Internet is a complicated task. According to U.S. Pat. No. 7 647 351 there is recognized only one primary known means of automatically retrieving information from a web site without the assistance of the web site owner utilizing the hidden mark up language of the web site for correlating useful data. Theoretically this mark up can help a computer algorithm locate process and interpret information on and about a page. As further noted by the 351 Patent unfortunately every Web site has a different look and feel so each Web page needs its own custom algorithm. Writing a custom algorithm is time intensive but possible on a small scale such as a price comparison website which gathers product information from a dozen sources. But there is no efficient way to scale this approach up to thousands or millions of Web sites which would require thousands or millions of custom algorithms to be written. The 351 Patent attempts to solve data conformity problems by the use of a manually set up template for each web page with a unique look and feel.

In fact the computer system seeking to process resources e.g. web pages news feeds PDF documents available on the Internet is faced with an earlier problem locating those resources in the first place. In some circumstances the particular Internet locations of the resources to be processed and interpreted are known a priori i.e. this resource and that resource located at these URLs and can be accessed accordingly. In others no such knowledge exists except in the abstract i.e. it is suspected that the information is available somewhere but it is not known specifically where .

Therefore there is a need for flexible Internet data search process that can meaningfully analyze and interpret data from disparate Internet resources without accessing those resources directly and without foreknowledge of the existence of or locations of such resources.

The present invention is directed to an Internet analysis system and process for performing analysis and drawing conclusions based on data acquired from the Internet. The system of the present invention includes an initial data set with input data a non party search engine a search initializer a bot and an updated data set. The initial data set includes investigation data consisting of a set of entities e.g. persons identified by their key attributes e.g. address and optionally described by zero or more additional attributes e.g. business ownership picture which can be populated or void. This data is to be tested with respect to a specific investigation activity occurrence or other criteria. The populated attributes contain data prior to the analysis and may be updated or voided as a result of the analysis void attributes lack data i.e. are void but may become populated later as a result of the analysis.

The nonparty Internet search engine of the present invention includes a search engine that is not affiliated with either the party searching for investigation data on the Internet or websites on the Internet that may contain the investigation data or indicia thereof. The search initializer is loaded with search keyword data related to the populated attributes and other words and phrases related to the transaction that is the subject of the investigation. The search initializer then accesses the nonparty search engine and executes a search to generate search results with search result entries and their search result entry data that is queued and or paginated by the search engine according to its particular policies. The bot having been manually loaded with evaluation criteria parses the search result entry data to acquire data for its analysis and potential subsequent update of one or more attributes entities or other data species of the initial data set. The initial data set is thus transformed into the updated data set which may include data related to the initial data set as well as the initial data as supplemented modified or culled by the bot.

These aspects of the invention are not meant to be exclusive. Furthermore some features may apply to certain versions of the invention but not others. Other features aspects and advantages of the present invention will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art when read in conjunction with the following description and accompanying drawings.

Referring first to the present invention includes an Internet analysis system and Internet analysis process . The invention operates to utilize a data set to perform an investigation and preferably alter a data set based on an analysis of Internet data. The data may comprise any data type and the present invention is not restricted to any particular purpose or datum unless otherwise expressly noted. In the preferred invention the data can be described as a series of entities that may the subject of a test. The entities are characterized by a series of attributes related to the entity. Preferred embodiments of the invention may be utilized as an investigation tool. In an investigation embodiment the entity data may include a series of individuals such as property owners. Attributes for an individual may by way of example include inherent data for the person such as height weight age address etc. The data set of the present invention includes input data which is the data present in the system or process prior to a search and captured data which includes the data acquired from a search and either added to the data set or utilized to otherwise alter the data set.

The present invention determines through an investigation the likelihood of an attribute activity or action conclusion applying to the entity based on an analysis of the results of a search or several searches. The conclusion need not be accurate or objectively true conclusion for the purposes of the present invention is simply an answer as drawn by the present invention based on its analysis. A preferred embodiment of the analysis system includes an initial data set a search initializer a non party Internet search engine a bot and an updated data set . By a non party Internet search engine it is meant a search entity that is not affiliated with either the party performing the analysis or the party holding the data that may be represented in search results presented by the nonparty search engine.

The database of the present invention is expressed in an initial data set . The initial data set includes tabulated attributes of any nature. While the present invention utilizes PostgreSQL for its data store other SQL or non SQL data storage and management systems could also be used. The data sets can be seen to include 2 dimensions of information. The entities e.g. persons are dispersed in the y axis represented in by letters a b y and information data related to the same entity e.g. characteristics are dispersed in the x axis represented in by numbers 1 2 X . There is no limit to either the quantity of entities or attributes that may occupy the data sets of the present invention. Lastly though the information is represented in two dimensions here for the purposes of explanation this is not a limitation of the present invention.

Turning to the preferred initial data set of the present invention is depicted. The initial data set includes as entity attributes identifying characteristics. Preferred investigation data of the present invention includes property owner data the identifying characteristics of which data constitute the attributes . The property owner data is expressed as entities along the y axis as different property owners while the attributes expressed along the x axis include the identifying characteristics of the different property owners. Preferred identifying attributes include a name a telephone number email address and any other characteristic that can be related to a particular property owner.

Attributes may be populated or void. Populated attributes have a pre existing value irrespective of accuracy. Void attributes lack a value. An example of a void attribute for property owner data may include a null value as a telephone number. If the present invention determines a telephone number for the investigation data here property owner data then the present invention may assign a value to the telephone number attribute in the case of a void attribute or update the value to the most recent one found in the case of a populated attribute . The present invention implements this functionality by utilizing normalized tables within its data store with telephone numbers being stored in a separate table and joined or associated with addresses and people via a join table. The void attribute data may be later filled with a value or not depending on the uses of the present invention.

The search initializer of the present invention is an access vehicle for communicating with and providing instructions to a non party Internet search engine. The instructions provided to the non party Internet search engine may be in the form of keyword data to provide to the search engine. In a preferred tax compliance system depicted in the system includes an embodiment of the search initializer with transaction or conclusion keyword data and attributes or words and phrases related thereto for the entity under investigation. Conclusion keyword also known as transaction keyword data includes keywords related to the transaction with taxation consequences. The transaction keyword data can include primary and secondary transaction keywords. A primary transaction keyword is a keyword set that directly relates to the transaction conclusion of consequence for example in a real estate transaction conclusion the transaction keywords may include a name a telephone number an e mail address a physical address e.g. city state country etc. a price target consumer characteristics realty characteristics e.g. rooms amenities location relative location etc. and any characteristics of a real estate transaction. Secondary keyword includes keywords that are topically once or further removed from words and phrases that directly describe a transaction. Examples of secondary keywords in a real estate transaction include synonyms and lesser used equivalents of primary keywords transaction histories for a particular vendor and the like. The search initializer reaches out to access the Internet search engine .

The search initializer of the present invention has been designed in such a way that adapters are created for each search engine that is to be used e.g. Bing Yahoo Google . This allows common initialization functionality to be shared across adapters and specific non party Internet search engine integration is handled within the associated adapter. Each non party Internet search engine adapter may vary to handle things like differing search syntax and application programming interfaces APIs . For example Bing assumes that searches with more than 5 keywords can be relaxed for i.e. not necessarily require the presence of the sixth and subsequent keywords. For the search initializer the presence of every word within the search is desired therefore the adapter for the Bing search engine adds the search engine specific syntax of norelax when using a long list of keywords.

The non party Internet search engine of the present invention is designed to aggregate and index information accessible on the World Wide Web FTP servers and other information collections accessible to computers. All information that is subject to indexing on an Internet search engine is known herein as search engine indexable Internet resources. The information such as it is possessed by the Internet search engine is known herein as search engine content. The information such as it exists from an original non search engine source is known herein as a native search engine indexable Internet resource e.g. native web sites. The most common form of a search engine indexable Internet resource is a web site. The output of the search is generally presented in a listing of search results of search result entries via which the user may continue on to native or engine hosted cached versions of the associated resources.

An Internet search engine is a preferred mechanism for accomplishing the objectives of the present invention as it obviates the necessity of the searching party to discover a priori the locations of the desired resources invent an original search algorithm purchase substantial processing equipment and duplicate storage and processing efforts. Search engines are easily and reliably accessible supported by sizable computer processing power and provided to the Internet community specifically for the purpose at issue i.e. provide search results in response to specific queries taken from a large and growing cross section of the Internet. The use of the Internet search engine also avoids a number of problems that may arise when accessing native web sites and resources including excessive loads placed on web site servers and bandwidth. It is an aspect of the present invention that the assistance of an Internet search engine is relied upon not only to provide substantial processing power but also to provide general sorting algorithms. Because search engines are specialized for fast searching that results in useful sorting the present invention incorporates the methodology reflected in the results provided by any of a number of established Internet search engine providers. A drawback is that the algorithms used by a particular search engine may not be publicly ascertainable but notwithstanding that secrecy search engines can generally be relied upon to furnish search results in a fashion that is broadly applicable to various search functions. The search engines are taken as is and their return of data in a particular order is adopted by the present invention as is their discretion in returning multiple or no results for a particular search. The present invention can incorporate any combination of search engines to support its analysis and counteract any problems with any specific engine s particular algorithms.

The search initializer acts to initiate a search that yields a set of search results with search result entries from the nonparty search engine. The bot of the present invention rather than continuing on to access the native website from the search result entries as is general practice analyzes only the search results provided by the search engine in response to the search request by the search initializer and wholly bypasses and ignores the native web sites . As many web sites expressly invite search engines to harvest web site content for purposes of search engine optimization and the like the applicability of the present invention is very broad.

Returning to the bot is loaded with evaluation criteria. The evaluation criteria preferably include keywords phrases and other measurement criteria in addition to attribute data but related to the activity being analyzed investigated. The keywords of the evaluation criteria and those utilized by the search initializer differ in that the keywords of the search initializer are adapted to generate search results and are usually of lesser quantity while the keywords et al. of the evaluation criteria include a significantly broader range of keywords and evaluation data. In a database augmentation embodiment of the present invention described above with the present invention utilizing PostgreSQL the bot uses information from the search results to supply missing or desired data to the initial data set resulting in an updated data set . In any embodiment of the present invention the updated data set can either be a modified version of the initial data set resulting in only a single data set or can be a distinct data set different from the initial data set resulting in two or more data sets. In the database augmentation embodiment of the present invention the bot proceeds through as many of the entities as is desired and supplies information for the updated data set transforming void attributes to populated attributes as desired. In the present invention the transformation of attribute data is achieved by either updating an existing database record with the new data or creating a new record that is then associated with previously existing data via foreign keys within a join table. The information retrieved by the bot is unrestricted in its nature. The keywords of the bot should be chosen to assist the bot in accurately interpreting the search result text to retrieve accurate information for the void attribute data or other function performed by the bot according to the present invention.

The bot may parse the search result entry data of the search results pursuant to any means known in the art. A first preferred means of ensuring accurate parsing of search results as evaluation criteria involves the uses of structured data. Structured data is recognizable among unrelated data as structured data possesses an identity distinct from the information that it represents. That is to say a telephone number can be recognized as a telephone number on the basis of its numbers its information its depiction as the number of digits that the telephone number possesses nine for standard telephone numbers or its format such as a particular hyphenation or spacing pattern associated with telephone numbers e.g. . . Structured data may take many forms including the means of portraying a name address location email address a URL etc.

The bot may parse information present in search results particularly search result entry data according to loaded evaluation criteria provided as initial or updated instructions as to the relevance of the information subject to being passed to the updated data set . Search result entry data includes the information such text media graphics files etc. that may be available directly from the search engine results without further recourse to the search engine indexable Internet resource. It is preferred that the evaluation criteria be manually loaded such that the criteria is supervised by human handlers. For example the bot may be instructed to compare URL results with a URL database the result originating from a particular URL in that database may be an indication of validity or invalidity. In practice the bot may be allowed to proceed with the parsing of the search results and paused after a significant period of activity that is say the bot need not parse every search result entry for the search entry data therein. The results of the updated data set may be reviewed manually for the relevance and accuracy of the information passed from the bot thereto i.e. information that has been used to transformed void attributes to populated attributes and the results of such review can be used to update the instructions used by the bot used as evaluation criteria in subsequent operations. Valid captured data i.e. data that matches the requirements of the data being sought can be aggregated to ascertain similar characteristics of the valid data. An example of frequently valid similar characteristics includes a common URL source particularly the tax compliance embodiment of the present invention. Information can be determined as having greater validity if it originates from a URL source supporting and encouraging such transactions with taxation consequences e.g. craigslist.org for rental offers.

The factors utilized as evaluation criteria are without limit and may be any factor related to an activity that is the subject of the analysis. Exemplary evaluation criteria include whether there are search results at all whether the search results contains attributes or related information or keywords at all a determination of the information content in the search results the number of search result entries returned the frequency of the attributes or related information or keywords in the search results a determination of the information of the meta tags the domains from which the results originate a determination of the information extracted from the domain which the results originate etc. Each of the above criteria is considered search result data.

A whitelist of URLs can be aggregated as evaluation criteria in the bot. Information originating from a whitelist URL can be immediately or graded as more likely to be passed to the updated data set. Conversely a blacklist of URLs can be aggregated as evaluation criteria in the bot to grade web sites as less likely to be passed to the updated data set. As an example for the taxation compliance embodiment a whitelist might include a craiglist.org for rental offers while the blacklist might include informational do it yourself web sites related to construction projects or reverse phone number web sites. Information from the bot s parsing deemed initially to have potential to be passed to the updated data set might be negated and the present invention may re parse the search results for a second or other candidate move to the next distinct entity of the initial data set without attempting to provide information to void attributes or perform another operation of the present invention. Rather than analyze the content of the search results the bot may be loaded solely with URL comparison data such that the existence of any search result entry corresponding to a whitelist URL equates to the validity of the activity subject to analysis. Another operation of the present invention includes the filtration embodiment of the present invention depicted in .

Turning to the filtration embodiment of the system of the present invention includes a Boolean filter . A primary difference between the filtration embodiment and the augmentation embodiment is that the filtration embodiment acts to reduce the initial data set to an updated data set that includes a diminished quantity of entities relative to the initial data set entities. The filtration embodiment may be used in operations when a user desires not to expand a database of known information constituents but rather to determine whether entities have or have not engaged in a particular activity. The initial data set passes entities with their related attributes to the search initializer which accesses and sends instructions to a search engine which uses its repository of stored websites and its particular search algorithms to produce search results . The bot parses the search results and a Boolean filter that includes instructions therein or communicates with another component of the present invention bearing instructions to determine whether the entity has been confirmed as engaging in an activity on the Internet. If the entity is confirmed as engaging in an activity the Boolean filter returns a value as true and either retains or deletes the entity in the updated data set or provides an updated data set that includes some indicia of the entities categorized as either true or false. If the entity is not confirmed as engaging in an activity the Boolean filter returns a value as false and either retains or deletes the investigation data in the updated data set .

An example of a preferred use of the filtration embodiment of the present invention is to search for entities that engage in an activity. As an example the entity data may be composed of property owners within a community. Property owners that engage the activity in question are parsed via the bot and then rather than augment the entity data from the initial data set the Boolean filter deletes false entity data to create an updated data set consisting solely of true entity data. If the activity includes offering the property for rent then the updated data set includes only those property owners as entities suspected by the present invention as engaging in offering the property for rent. Alternatively the filtration embodiment of the present invention can be functionally replicated by the augmentation embodiment by utilizing a Boolean as an entity attribute in the initial data set that is modified by the bot .

Turning now to the present invention may also generate an updated data set that includes captured data . An aspect of the present invention includes the scouring of the Internet to acquire captured data based on the input data. The captured data may include new attributes of pre existing entities of pre existing categories in a fashion similar to that of updating void data attributes to populated attributes new entities that may include one or more attributes corresponding to attributes pre existing or otherwise new attributes of existing entities in categories pre existing or other and the like. It is preferred that captured data correspond to the existing structure of the initial data set that is to say the entry of a new entity or apply to a pre existing entity attribute category even if occupied by void placeholders. However the present invention may act as a scouring agent that acquires data related to the activity that is the subject of the analysis and add such data as information as an attribute for an entity irrespective of applicability to a category. Exemplary captured data may include narratives about from the entity media about from the entity data files etc. Captured data acquired by the bot or a link to external data file as a proxy for the captured data may be positioned in the updated data set . Another preferred form of captured data includes a link to the Internet source serving as the basis for modifying or updating the data in the updated data. As the present invention does not visit a native contemporaneous web site it is preferred as in shown in the means by which a reviewing party may audit the results of the data set manipulation is to associate a link with the entity data to permit a third party reviewer a means to access the native web site or cached version thereof containing the data upon which the conclusion was drawn. Furthermore any data as existing in the updated data set as different from the data in the initial data set whether such differences derive from transition of void attributes to populated attributes the acquisition of captured data the addition of entities etc. may be reconstituted . By reconstituted it is meant that the data of the updated data set is arranged as initial data for one or more further passes through other steps or components of the present invention. By re cycling modified data through the steps and components of the invention the accuracy of the invention is enhanced because outdated inaccurate data is discarded for new accurate data and pre existing data may be supplemented with additional data.

Returning to an example of the present invention utilizing captured data is a job posting embodiment of the present invention. The investigation data may include employment opportunities with the hiring business as the entity and the business name business address and business telephone number as entity attributes data and the position and salary as void attributes. The search initializer may access a non party search engine to generate search results from which a bot parses search result entry data . Upon determining the salary and position of specific business entities the bot may further capture the narrative related to the position or the narrative characterizing the rationale related to a salary range. One means for determining the existence of for example the narrative as captured data is to supply the bot with keywords relating to a position description as a first evaluation criterion and then grammar syntax cues relating to the beginning and end of a suspect narrative e.g. paragraph indentations seek root word requirement in first sentence seek bullet marks etc. as the second evaluation criterion.

In a Request for Proposal embodiment the present invention may capture the request for proposal document as a standalone file as captured data. The investigation data may include agency projects with the agency project as the entity data and the agency name agency address and agency telephone number as entity attributes and the project name as void related data. Upon determining the project name the bot may further capture the RFP document for persistent retention. To ensure that the file capture does not involve accessing the native website the bot may be loaded with instructions to acquire such files merely from the non party search engine or upon finding that the non party search engine lacks a required file captures link data describing the location of the file. Alternatively the captured data particularly when files may be captured directly from the native website.

The captured data may further be used in the evaluation criteria of the bot. The bot may be manually loaded with keywords and information related to positive correlations i.e. whitelist or negative correlations i.e. blacklist. Positive correlations with keywords include keywords that make the existence of a fact more likely than not and the negative correlations with keywords include keywords that make the existence of a fact less likely than otherwise. Use of keyword captured data with the evaluation criteria is particularly useful when transaction keywords in the search initializer are likely to generate search results that include unrelated search result text snippets and unrelated historic web site data. For example in the RFP embodiment of the present invention the evaluation criteria may include as whitelist components verbs related to the provision of a request for proposal such as the keywords contractor bid keywords related to credentials and the like. The evaluation criteria may include as blacklist components verbs unrelated to the provision of a request for proposal but related to government agencies. For example if requests for proposals frequently share general terms with the frequently asked questions pages of government agencies then appropriate blacklist components may include such keywords as FOIA Privacy Act Request Records and the like.

The confidence or accuracy detector of the present invention provides an attempt to measure the confidence of the intended updates that would form the updated data set if applied. The confidence detector differs from the evaluation criteria in that the evaluation criteria attempts to qualitatively review a data candidate purely for the purposes of inclusion or exclusion. A preferred version of the confidence detector includes a pre defined scoring system attributing a specified score to the findings of a search in an attempt to quantitatively measure the results of the search. Another general methodology for scoring the results of bot output or findings includes the comparison of the bot outputs for different search engines accessed during the searching step of the present invention. The process of the present invention may run in a parallel series such that a first use of the process searches GOOGLE a second use of the process searches BING a third use of the process searches YAHOO etc. Information may be found in the differences between the outputs of the bots for each different search engine. Generally scores may be positive or negative to produce a positive or negative score total or any other basis for scoring or grading confidence may be utilized.

Turning to in view of a simplistic fictional example of a present invention is presented in which there is an investigation in an attempt to determine literary characters that have visited Wonderland. The initial data set is initialized to include as entities literary characters the attributes may include the character name character physical characteristics and character location as populated attributes and a Boolean value representing whether it is true that the character visited Wonderland as a void attribute. The search initializer is loaded with the populated attributes of the entity and transaction keyword data and accesses a search engine repository . The initial data set may include such entities and attributes as represented in Table 1.

In the embodiment of with reference to the search initializer accesses the search engine to retrieve the search results . An example of a web site data referred to by search result entry may resemble that of . The present invention acts to approximate the results of a thorough analysis of native web page content such as the web site data of without ever accessing native web pages or the native web page data with the efficiency of relying solely on an Internet search engine. The search engine repository may include an identical cached version of the native web page as content a previous version a similar version or not include a version of the native web page at all. Another aspect of the present invention is the ability to analyze data from the Internet as it existed historically when such an objective is sought it may be advantageous to include a time stamp as a captured data attribute in the updated data set.

In continuing the Wonderland Example and as shown by and the search initializer may access the search engine repository to receive as a search result for Alice as an entity in the initial data set the search results search result entries and search result data data of . As can be seen by rather than reproduce directly or indirectly web site text the present invention parses and analyzes only the search results specifically and preferably the search result entry data and the search result entries as truncated ordered and otherwise edited by the search engine by using the bot to test the investigation data. If the bot is prepared with evaluation criteria that includes such transaction keyword search terms related to visits prominent Wonderland citizens e.g. the Rabbit etc. then the bot can determine as an output conclusion that Alice is valid data and provide an update to the updated data set accordingly. The bot in reviewing the search results may evaluate each search entry individually in groups or in their totality to test the investigation data entity by entity. Furthermore the bot may return an action related to investigation data as valid merely by the existence of any or a particular quantity of search results for the search initiated by the search initializer.

In continuing the Wonderland Example and as shown by and the search initializer may access the search engine repository to receive as a search result for Alice as an entity in the initial data set the search results search entities and search entity data of . As can be seen by rather than reproduce directly or indirectly web site text the present invention parses and analyzes only the search results specifically and preferably the search result data and the search results entries as truncated ordered and otherwise edited by the search engine by using the bot to test the investigation data. If the bot is prepared with evaluation criteria that includes such transaction keyword search terms related to visits prominent Wonderland citizens e.g. the Rabbit etc. then the bot can determine as an output conclusion that Alice is valid data and provide an update to the updated data set accordingly. The bot in reviewing the search results may evaluate each search entry individually in groups or in their totality to test the investigation data entity by entity. Furthermore the bot may return an action related to investigation data as valid merely by the existence of any or a particular quantity of search results for the search initiated by the search initializer.

To further safeguard accuracy as can be seen in the present invention may utilize enhanced evaluation criteria and a confidence detector . Enhanced evaluation criteria may include positive filtration and negative filtration utilizing the positive filters i.e. whitelists and negative filters i.e. blacklists respectively discussed herein. The confidence detector constitutes an attempt to mathematically score data manipulated within the updated data set or the differences between the initial data set and the updated data set . Scores may be provided for particular positive words phrases locations and the like and scores may be provided for particular negative words phrases locations and the like. The output of the confidence detector for each distinct entity may be inserted into the updated data set or otherwise associated with the distinct entity.

Turning now to a preferred embodiment of the tax compliance i.e. VRCompliance system and process and of the present invention is used to monitor tax compliance by vacation rentals by property owners. An increasing number of second home owners are renting their homes as vacation properties. Using online advertising means many of these property owners are able to market their properties and handle bookings at a minimal cost without using a property management firm. In many such cases the owners are unaware that renting a property often requires compliance with state and community specific sales lodging tax and business licensing requirements. There is a potentially large and increasing amount of community revenue that is lost due to the non compliance of the Vacation Rental By Owner VRBO property owners. Additionally there are significant market distortions that arise from varying degrees of compliance within a particular market.

The growth of the VRBO market will continue to drive the compliance problems experienced by resort communities and revenue and tax departments. Currently determining compliance can be a labor intensive process because there are a number of websites where individuals advertise their properties and a number of additional disparate and non correlated data sources that in the aggregate comprise the complete data set required to assess compliance. The properties are generally only listed with a phone number or an email address for contacting the owner. There is a lack of critical information such as the full name of the owner and the address of the vacation home including unit number. Currently a community is left with the decision of whether to make direct contact by calling the owner or search for the owner s property address via indirect means. Some communities search for the properties based on photos posted on the website. Regardless of how communities try to identify these properties and their owners the process continues as listings are updated added and deleted daily from online sites.

The VRCompliance methodology simplifies the process of matching vacation rental property advertisements to property owners and verifying whether the property owners are in compliance with tax and licensing requirements for the community. The methodology is as follows a Import Property Tax Records For A Community b Import Compliance Records For A Community c Import Additional Data On Owners From External Data Sources d Create Queries Using Gathered Information That Should Result In Advertisements e Process Queries Using Search Engines f Filter Query Results To Show Information That Is More Likely To Be An Advertisement g Provide The User The Results In A Digestible Format.

Property tax records for the community are obtained for the community and imported into the VRCompliance system as populated constituent data . Because each community has their tax records in a different format a normalization filter is required. A preferred normalization filter utilizes a Domain Specific Language DSL may be employed to aid in importing records from various formats into the common format that is used by the VRCompliance system. A DSL is a programming language with syntax dedicated to a particular problem domain a particular problem representation technique and or a particular solution technique. The preferred DSL for property importing includes the following language constructs 

The following is a simple example that maps the value in column 39 of the input file to the VR ADDRESS2 column in the output

The following example shows that column 3 is should be run through a normalizing and capitalization routine prior to being assigned to the output column VR MAILING ADDRESS CARE OF.

The following example is a more complicated manipulation of multiple columns of incoming data that is then assigned to a single row in the output. In this case the VRCompliance address 1 is comprised of columns 34 through 38 of the incoming data. The address is normalized and made to be uppercase. In this case the incoming data sometimes has a value of NO ASSIGNED ADDRESS . However the internal representation for that is N A .

By setting up a configuration block using this internal language process community tax records can be more simply formatted in a style convenient to the VRCompliance system.

Importing compliance records of a particular type for a community as populated constituent data in the VRCompliance methodology may be achieved using the DSL techniques described above. The VRCompliance methodology may be applied to any compliance type e.g. a business license or a sales and lodging tax filing. Communities provide information on property owners within that community that are compliant in these contexts. Once imported within the VRCompliance methodology an association is created between the property and its associated compliance records.

The methodology includes importing additional data on owners such as phone number and email addresses from external data sources to create additional populated constituent data. Thus this embodiment utilizes information wholly originating from the community and non Internet sources to populate the initial data set of the present invention.

The methodology then populates the search initializer using constituent data and other information as keywords calculated to yield results that include relevant advertisements. For each property owner the entity in a community a custom query is created to search for potential advertisements. These custom queries are tested for uniqueness and then sent to the search engines via a custom VRCompliance interface in the search initializer . The VRCompliance system then iterates through the custom search results for each user. The custom searches utilize unique information that is associated with the owner such as their phone number or email. Based on the uniquely identifiable information the results of these searches are tied to the person and the rental property ies owned by that person.

The methodology filters query results to consider information that is more likely to be an advertisement. Simply because a search result is found does not mean that it is an advertisement for a rental property. In order to minimize the amount of noise received in search results the VRCompliance methodology parses the results via a bot . Search results are filtered based on whether the domain name that the search result points to is on a whitelist or blacklist that has been analyzed by human analysis or can be ignored. The results are marked and passed to a Boolean filter . A return continues the process until the initial data set is exhausted of distinct data. Only search results that are associated with domains on the white list are displayed for a given property in a community and are recognized as such because the updated data set includes as constituent data a Boolean validating negating the possibility of tax compliance. These search results are considered advertisements and are associated with the property in the community that is owned by the property owner. Upon finishing the process the updated data set may be viewed.

Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain preferred versions thereof other versions would be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. Therefore the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description of the preferred versions contained herein.

