---

title: Mobile notifications based upon sensor data
abstract: Disclosed are various embodiments employed to generate device notifications based upon ambient conditions associated with a mobile device. To this end, a request to generate a device notification is obtained from a user application. Notification content is extracted from the request and an escalated or de-escalated notification level is applied that is based at least in part upon the ambient conditions of the mobile device and properties about the ambient conditions that can be identified.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09008629&OS=09008629&RS=09008629
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09008629
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120828
---
Current mobile devices provide for an ability to display notifications that are related to received email short message service SMS messages mobile application notifications and other types of content that is pushed to the mobile device and or pulled by the mobile device and subsequently displayed via some type of notification capability provided by the mobile device operating system. Current mobile device applications and or operating systems may allow for the ability to filter categorize and or prioritize notifications based upon a sender or a message and or an identity of an application through which a notification originates.

With reference to shown is a networked environment that facilitates the use of a mobile device allowing for altering mobile notifications based upon ambient conditions associated with a mobile device based upon input from one or more device sensors and or data accessible to the mobile device. Specifically the networked environment includes at least one mobile device in which notifications can be displayed to a user. First a general description of the physical makeup of the networked environment and its components is described followed by a discussion of the operation of the same.

To begin the networked environment includes one or more mobile devices that are coupled to a network . The network may comprise for example the Internet intranets extranets wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs wired networks wireless networks such as cellular networks or other suitable networks etc. or any combination of two or more such networks.

Each of the mobile devices may comprise for example a smartphone tablet computing device a portable computing system such as for example a laptop or any other device that generally is portable such that an individual may carry such device from place to place as can be appreciated. To this end according to one embodiment a mobile device includes a processor circuit having a processor and a memory as can be appreciated.

According to one embodiment the mobile device includes a display device such as for example liquid crystal display LCD screens gas plasma based flat panel displays or other types of display devices etc. The display device included within the mobile device facilitates the display of one or more user interfaces based upon the operation of various applications in the mobile device as will be described. In addition a mobile device includes various input and output devices such as for example a capacitive touchscreen integrated into the display device externally visible lights light emitting diodes vibration motors or other types of visual indicators an integrated camera speakers microphones and other devices as can be appreciated.

In addition the mobile device includes various applications and or systems such as for example a notification library an operating system one or more user applications and other applications and or systems. The notification library is a portion of the operating system and or an operating system plug in application programming interface API library or other type of software component that can facilitate manipulation of device notifications via a user interface speakers vibration motors and or externally visible indicators such as an externally mounted LED. The operating system is a device operating system that facilitates communication between software components and applications and the mobile device hardware components such as a processor circuit input output bus input devices output devices etc.

User applications represent one or more applications that can be executed by the mobile device and which can obtain various types of data and display notifications in a user interface rendered on the display device or generate other content in the mobile device . A user application can comprise an email application a calendar application an SMS application a browser or any other type of mobile application that can obtain push notifications or generate notifications based upon data obtained via the network or data stored in the mobile device . For example an email or SMS application may generate notifications in the form of an audible ringtone activation of a vibration motor a visible notification in a notification bar or other part of an operating system user interface a flashing or blinking LED or other types of notifications as can be appreciated. In some embodiments a user application can represent an operating system resource service or any type of application that can request to display or activate any type of device notification in the mobile device .

As another example a calendar application may generate notifications associated with appointments or reminders associated with a calendar that are rendered in a user interface shown on the display based upon calendar data stored within the mobile device . Additionally the calendar application may also generate a notification in the form of a ringtone played via a speaker associated with the mobile device or cause an integrated LED to light or blink periodically in one or more different colors. In these and other scenarios where a user application attempts to generate a notification in a mobile device the user applications can do so via an API provided by the notification library by passing a notification data item that contains notification content meta data e.g. content type image capture device type data location etc. .

The mobile device in one embodiment further includes various devices sensors and hardware capabilities. For example the mobile device can include one or more light emitting diodes LEDs that can be activated as a part of a notification. The mobile device can also include one or more speakers through which the notification library can play one or more tones or sounds as a part of a notification. Additionally the mobile device can also include one or more vibration motors which can also be activated by the notification library at various frequencies as a part of a notification.

The various device sensors can provide information about the ambient conditions locations and other properties about an environment in which the mobile device is located. The mobile device can include in some embodiments a global navigation satellite system that is configured to determine a location of the mobile device by communication with a satellite navigation system such as the global positioning system GPS Globalnaya Navigatsionnaya Sputnikovaya Sistema GLONASS or any other satellite navigation system or location detection mechanism. The mobile device can also be configured with one or more wireless radios or wireless network interfaces. For example the mobile device can include a personal wireless area networking interface such as a Bluetooth communication subsystem a wireless networking subsystem such as a wireless local area networking system e.g. Wi Fi facilitating communication with a wireless local area network and or a wireless wide area networking system facilitating communication with a wireless wide area network.

Location data associated with the mobile device can be requested by the notification library from an operating system executed by the mobile device which can provide location data that is derived from data obtained from the GNSS system the wireless radios or any other systems as can be appreciated.

The mobile device can also be configured with one or more cameras . Such a camera can be a front facing camera such that it is aimed in a similar direction that the display is configured to be visible to a user. Such a camera can also be a rear facing camera that is aimed in an opposing direction relative to the display . A camera integrated into the mobile device can also comprise one that is configured to capture three dimensional imagery infrared imagery or any other type of video capture and or image capture device.

The mobile device can also be configured with one or more microphones that can capture ambient audio. The one or more microphones can be positioned at various locations within or externally to the mobile device . The mobile device can also be configured with one or more light sensors configured to capture information about ambient light levels such as the ambient light intensity and or light temperature. The mobile device can also be configured with one or more accelerometers configured to capture acceleration data associated with movement of the mobile device . The mobile device can also be configured with one or more gyroscopes configured to capture data regarding spatial orientation of the mobile device .

The mobile device can also include one or more proximity sensors that can provide information regarding the physical proximity of the mobile device to other objects. For example the proximity sensor can be employed to determine whether an object such as the user s face is near the display of the mobile device in which case the display can be disabled in the event that the user is engaged voice communications via the mobile device .

Accordingly the notification library can determine based upon data from the various device sensors whether a notification rule specifying a particular notification level is associated with the ambient conditions associated with the mobile device . The ambient conditions can be related to any sensor data obtained from any of the device sensors of the mobile device . For example the ambient conditions that include ambient sound data captured by the microphone images or video captured by the camera ambient light data captured by the light sensor proximity data captured by the proximity sensor acceleration or movement data captured by the accelerometer and or position or orientation data captured by the gyroscope .

The notification library can also determine absent an applicable notification rule whether the notification level corresponding to a particular notification should be modified based upon the ambient conditions of the mobile device and or device sensor data. It should be appreciated that the ambient conditions detected by the notification library can correspond to instantaneous conditions that are detected at or near the moment that a request to activate a device notification is received. Additionally the ambient conditions can be based upon sensor data obtained from one or more device sensors over a period of time of any length prior to an including the moment at which a request to activate one or more device notifications is received.

The notification level can comprise one of many various levels of notification depending upon the ambient conditions associated with the mobile device . For example the notification levels associated with the notification library can be ranked according to a degree or amount of device notifications associated with the notification level. In this sense an escalated notification level can comprise any combination of user interface elements displayed by the notification library in an operating system user interface audible or tactile notification and or LED notifications. Conversely lower priority notifications can be associated with a de escalated notification level which can comprise for example a less intrusive form of notification generated by the notification library . For example a de escalated notification level may be characterized by fewer visual notification elements less intrusive audible notifications etc. The notification levels can also include a default notification level with which ambient conditions cannot be associated with an escalated or de escalated notification level can be associated.

Other solutions generate varying notification levels depending upon a notification type a sender and or originating application of a notification. In contrast the notification library can maintain one or more notification rules that relate ambient conditions of the mobile device to a notification level. In other words the notification library can analyze the ambient conditions from device sensor data captured by the various device sensors associated with the mobile device to determine a corresponding notification level. In one scenario a user application can submit a request to generate a device notification in the form of a notification user interface element that is a popup element and or one that is placed in a notification bar in an operating system or launcher user interface by submitting a notification data item containing the notification content to the notification library . In response the notification library can analyze the ambient conditions of the mobile device as reported by the various device sensors described above and determine whether a notification rule corresponds to the ambient conditions and specifies a notification level that varies from the notification requested by the user application . The notification library can then generate a notification according to the notification level corresponding to the notification rule.

As noted above the notification level can specify various types of notifications that are displayed by the operating system in a user interface on the display via visible indicators integrated within the mobile device and or audible alerts via a speaker integrated within the mobile device . For example a user application that is an email application may request a notification in the form of a ringtone activation of a vibration motor activation of a certain LED color and repeat pattern and or frequency as well as a notification displayed in a notification bar and or in a notification popup shown in the operating system user interface .

However the notification library may determine that based upon the ambient conditions of the mobile device as well as potentially a corresponding notification rule that a different notification level should be employed. Accordingly if a de escalated notification level is specified by the notification rule for the ambient conditions the notification library can generate a device notification that can vary from the type of notification requested by the user application . For example in the case of an email notification the notification rule can specify that for certain ambient conditions or combinations thereof that an audible tone should not be generated nor should the vibration motor be vibrated while the visible notifications in the user interface and LED should be generated.

In some embodiments selection of a notification level can comprise delaying one or more device notifications until a later point in time. For example if certain ambient conditions are detected by one or more of the device sensors the notification library can delay certain device notifications until a later point in time or until the ambient conditions change. As another example the notification library may suppress and or deactivate or suppress certain notifications already activated in the mobile device consistent with a de escalated notification level when certain ambient conditions are detected by one or more of the device sensors until a later point in time or until the ambient conditions change.

The notification rule can specify a notification level that varies from the requested notification in various ways and in various permutations such as in the form of various volumes or selections of ringtones a repeat frequency or repeat pattern of a ringtone vibration motor activation and or LED activation the intensity of the LED activation and in other combination and permutations as can be appreciated. For example the notification rule can specify a particular volume of a ringtone that varies from a default volume level. As another example the notification rule can specify a pattern with which the vibration motor is activated that varies relative to the default pattern. As yet another example the notification rule can specify a frequency with which the LED is activated that varies from the default frequency. Additionally the notification rule can specify varying levels of display brightness that can be employed in response to certain ambient conditions.

In some embodiments a notification rule maintained by the notification library can specify one or more device notifications associated with some characteristic of the ambient conditions of the mobile device that vary from the default notifications that correspond to those requested by the user application . For example an email application may ordinarily request from the notification library a particular combination of default device notifications. Accordingly a notification rule can specify certain device notifications that are employed in addition to the default notifications. For example an email application may request to generate device notifications that include the playing of a ringtone activation of an LED and vibration motor and or the display of a user interface element. Accordingly a notification rule can specify that the volume of a default ringtone should be elevated the frequency with which the LED and or vibration motor are repeated to be modified or specify other changes to a default device notification when certain ambient conditions are detected.

In one embodiment a user of a mobile device may set up various notification rules via a user interface provided by the notification library on the mobile device and or via a web based user interface. The notification rules can specify a notification level that includes a combination of device notifications that are associated with particular ambient conditions as detected by the one or more of the device sensors of the mobile device . In one embodiment a notification rule can specify that when the ambient audio data is associated with certain characteristics that notifications received during this time should be escalated or de escalated.

For example if ambient audio as captured by the microphone of the mobile device exceed a specified volume level an escalated notification level can be selected by the notification library for incoming device notifications from user applications or other sources. In one scenario if a notification request includes a request to play an audible tone the notification library can select an elevated volume level in such ambient noise conditions. As another example the notification library can select a de escalated notification level when ambient sound data captured by the microphone reflects a volume level that is beneath a specified threshold. In one scenario if a notification request includes a request to play an audible tone the notification library can select a lowered volume level in such ambient noise conditions. As another example the notification library can delay the playing of an audible notification tone until ambient sound levels are beneath a specified volume threshold.

As another example the notification library can also analyze the pitch or other characteristics of ambient sound data and select an escalated and or de escalated notification level based upon such an analysis. For example when a notification request is submitted to the notification library the notification library can examine the pitch of ambient noise data captured by the microphone and play an audible notification tone that has a pitch that varies from the pitch of ambient noise. For example the notification library can play an audible tone having a pitch such that the tone stands apart from the ambient noise conditions.

As another example the notification library can detect whether a musical track is present in the ambient noise data captured by the microphone . If so the notification library can select an audible notification tone as a part of a device notification that stands apart from the musical track based upon the tonal or other musical properties of the musical track. Additionally when the musical track can be identified the notification library can delay the playing of an audible notification tone until a point in the musical track where volume levels are expected to be low relative to other points in the musical track.

As another example the notification library can detect whether a an audio track corresponding to video content such as television programming advertising content movies or any other type of content is present in the ambient noise data captured by the microphone . In such a scenario the notification library can select an escalated notification level when the ambient audio data corresponds to advertising content and a de escalated notification level when the ambient audio data corresponds to a television program movies or non advertising content. Additionally when an audio track corresponding to video content can be identified the notification library can delay the playing of an audible notification tone until advertising content is detected or until a commercial starts. In one embodiment the beginning of advertising content can be detected via detection of commercial break control tones that may be embedded in the audio track accompanying the video content.

As another example the notification library can be configured to activate audible notification in a device at a volume level at a marginal level above ambient volume levels as detected by the microphone . For example the notification library can be configured to activate audible notifications at a volume level that is a certain constant level above the ambient volume levels of an environment in which the mobile device is located.

The notification library can also perform an analysis of ambient light data obtained from the light sensor of the mobile device and select varying notification levels depending upon the light data. In one embodiment the notification library can select an escalated notification level the ambient light data reflects a high degree of variation over a specified period of time. In other words if light levels indicate a high degree of change over a particular period of time such a condition can be associated with a chaotic environment in which an escalated notification level may be desired. Accordingly the notification library can employ an escalated volume for audible notifications activate the vibration motor increase the repeat frequency of the LED or employ any other form of elevated notification level as can be appreciated. As another example the notification library can select a de escalated notification level the ambient light data reflects a low degree of variation over a specified period of time.

The notification library can also vary the display brightness and or LED intensity in response to varying ambient light conditions. For example the notification library can select an elevated display brightness and or LED intensity corresponding to a device notification if ambient light data is indicative of a chaotic environment as well as a lowered display brightness if ambient light data is indicative of a lowered display brightness. As another example the notification library can vary display brightness and or LED intensity corresponding to a device notification depending upon the ambient light levels detected by the light sensor .

The notification library can also perform an analysis of proximity data obtained from the proximity sensor of the mobile device and select varying notification levels depending upon whether the proximity data reflects that the mobile device is within a specified distance of another object. As noted above the proximity sensor is often employed to determine whether the mobile device is close to the user s face such as when the user is engaged in a voice call. Accordingly the notification library can also exploit proximity data obtained from the proximity sensor to select escalated or de escalated notification levels. For example if the proximity data reflects that the mobile device is within a specified distance of another object de escalated notification levels can be employed as such a condition may reflect that the mobile device is close to the user. Conversely if the proximity data reflects that the mobile device is not within a specified distance of another object an escalated notification levels can be employed as such a condition may reflect that the mobile device is not near the user s face and or ears.

The notification library can also perform an analysis of devices to which the mobile device is paired as a part of a wireless personal area network such as a Bluetooth configuration. For example the notification library can determine whether the mobile device is paired to a wireless headset or any other type of peripheral. Accordingly if the mobile device is paired with a headset peripheral the notification library can determine whether the headset peripheral is connected or disconnected from the mobile device and vary the notification level for incoming notification. For example if a paired headset peripheral is currently disconnected from the mobile device the notification library can select an escalated notification level as such a condition may indicate that the user is less likely to notice notification ringtones or other forms of notifications. Conversely if the paired headset peripheral is currently connected to the mobile device the notification library can select a de escalated notification level as such a condition may indicate that the user is more likely to notice notification ringtones or other forms of notifications.

As an additional example the notification library can also select escalated and or de escalated notification levels based upon a signal strength between a peripheral and the mobile device. For example is the signal strength of a headset peripheral and a mobile device is low the notification library can escalate visual notifications because it is likely that the user is relatively far away from the mobile device relative to when the signal strength is strong.

The notification library can also perform an analysis of image data and or video data captured by the camera of the mobile device . In one embodiment the notification library can analyze camera data to assess the environment in which the mobile device is situated. For example the notification library can initiate an image analysis to determine whether image data captured by the mobile device is located indoors and or outdoors and select an escalated notification level if the mobile device is located outdoors in a potentially noisy environment. For example the notification library can initiate an image analysis to determine whether any objects and or textures can be identified in image data captured by the camera that correspond to typical indoor or outdoor elements. For example the surface of a desk and or table which is an indoor surface upon which a mobile device is often place can be identified in image data and associated with the mobile device being located in an indoor environment. As another example outdoor features such as the sky grass dirt roads etc. can be identified in the image data and associated with the mobile device being located in an outdoor environment.

The notification library can also determine a velocity acceleration or other movements of the mobile device from data obtained from the GNSS system . Accordingly the notification library can alter notification levels based upon the velocity of the mobile device at any given point in time. If the velocity of the mobile device exceeds a predefined threshold the notification library can employ escalated notification levels as an elevated velocity may be consistent with elevated ambient noise levels. Similarly if the velocity is beneath a threshold or indicates that the mobile device is stationary the notification library can employ de escalated notification levels as such a velocity may be consistent with decreased ambient noise levels. Additionally a user may specify via a user configured notification rule one or more velocity thresholds and various notification levels with each of the velocity thresholds. Additionally the notification library can also select escalated notification levels when location data obtained from the GNSS system indicates that the mobile device is located within or near a roadway airport or any other similar type of environment that can be associated with elevated noise levels.

The notification library can also generate notification rules by learning what types of notifications are of importance to the user of the mobile device . To accomplish this the notification library can identify a user input in response to a notification that is generated by the notification library and determine whether the user input represents a user interaction or a lack of a user interaction with the notification. If a user interaction with the notification is detected such as when a user opens a notification or a user application related to the notification the notification library can generate a notification rule that assigns an escalated notification level to the current ambient conditions of the mobile device . If a lack of a user interaction with the notification is detected such as when a user dismisses or cancels a notification generated by the notification library then the notification library can generate a notification rule that assigns a de escalated notification level to the current ambient conditions of the mobile device .

As another example the notification library can generate notification rules by determining based upon actions within a user application that the user may take. For example user interaction with the notification is detected such as when a user opens a notification related to an email message SMS message or any other type of message and the user subsequently deletes the associated message the notification library can assign a de escalated notification level to the ambient conditions of the mobile device . Additionally in this scenario the notification library can also detect whether the user reads replies to or otherwise interacts with the message and assign an escalated notification level to the ambient conditions of the mobile device .

Referring next to shown is an example of a mobile device displaying a user interface in which various types of notifications can be generated by the notification library . In the example of also shown is an example of an externally visible LED that can be activated by the notification library in response to a request to generate a notification from a user application . In the depicted example a user application such as an email application has requested to generate a notification in the mobile device . Accordingly in the scenario shown in the user application has requested that the notification include periodic activation of the LED as well as display of a notification badge in a notification area of the user interface and potentially playing of a ringtone associated with the email application. Therefore in this scenario the notification library can generate the requested notifications. For example in this scenario there may be no predefined notification rules corresponding to the ambient conditions of the device. Therefore if there are no predefined notification rules corresponding to the ambient conditions the notification library can generate notification according to a default behavior which can include generating the notifications requested by the user application .

Referring next to shown is an alternative example of a mobile device and user interface in which the notification library has generated a device notification corresponding to a notification rule. In the depicted example a notification rule specifying a de escalated notification level is identified that applies to the current ambient conditions of the mobile device . Accordingly the notification rule can specify that the notification library generates device notifications that vary from those requested by the user application . In this example the notification library can display the notification badge but can also suppress activation of the LED as well as potentially suppress playing of a ringtone.

Referring next to shown is an alternative example of a mobile device and user interface in which the notification library has generated a device notification corresponding to a notification rule. In the depicted example a notification rule specifying an escalated notification level is identified that applies to the ambient conditions of the mobile device . Accordingly the notification rule can specify that the notification library generates device notifications associated with an escalated notification level. In one embodiment the escalated notification level includes additional or alternative device notifications that can signal importance of the notification to the user of the mobile device . The escalated notification level can include device notifications that vary from those requested by the user application .

In this example the notification library can display the notification badge and activate the LED which may be the device notifications requested by the user application . The notification library in order to effectuate an escalated notification level can also display a popup notification in the user interface that includes user interface elements with which the user may interact. In this example the popup notification allows the user to dismiss the notification or view additional information related to the notification e.g. the email message . The notification library can also periodically activate a vibration motor associated with the mobile device until the user interacts with popup notification even though such a notification may not have been requested by the user application .

Additionally the notification library can also refine and or define notification rules that are related to the ambient conditions of the mobile device based upon user interaction with the popup notification . In the depicted example the notification library can detect user input that corresponds to user interaction with the notification such as activation of the View button. The notification library can also detect user input that corresponds to a lack of user interaction with the notification such as activation of the Cancel button. In the case of detection of user interaction with the notification the notification library can confirm a notification rule associated with the ambient conditions as well as other device sensor data associated with ambient conditions. The notification library can also adjust the notification rule applying to the ambient conditions to an even more escalated notification level. In the case of detection of a lack of user interaction with the notification the notification library can adjust the notification rule associated with the ambient conditions so that a de escalated notification level is applied.

Referring next to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of at least a portion of the notification library according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. Alternatively the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting steps of an example of a method implemented in a mobile device .

Beginning with box the notification library obtains a request from a user application executed by the mobile device to generate one or more device notifications. The request can include a notification data item that includes notification content that is related to the notification or that the user application is attempting to place in a visual notification user interface element. The notification data item also includes the requested types of notification such as whether to place a notification badge in a user interface a popup element LED activation vibration motor activation and or playing of audible alerts or ringtones. As noted above a user application can include any application executed by the mobile device that initiates notifications in the mobile device that are related to communications e.g. email SMS mobile application push notifications etc. obtain on behalf of a user as well as applications that generate notifications related to any other type of content e.g. calendar applications games electronic commerce applications etc. .

The notification library can then determine obtain device sensor data from one or more of the device sensors to assess the ambient conditions associated with the mobile device . As noted above the notification library can obtain data from one or more device sensors in the mobile device such as the GNSS system one or more of the wireless radios camera microphone light sensor accelerometer gyroscope proximity sensor and any other sensors within or accessible to the mobile device that can capture data associated with ambient conditions. The notification library can request the device sensor data from the various device sensors of the mobile device from an operating system executed by the mobile device which can obtain sensor data and provide the data to the notification library .

For example the notification library can obtain velocity movement and or position data associated with the mobile device from the GNSS system accelerometer and or gyroscope and determine whether movement of the mobile device reflects a likelihood that the mobile device is in a noisy environment. As another example the notification library can examine audio data captured by the microphone to assess ambient conditions related to ambient noise. The notification library can also examine ambient light data from the light sensor or image and or video data captured by the camera . The notification library can also analyze whether the mobile device is coupled to one or more peripherals via a wireless radio subsystem. As described above the notification library can analyze any one or any combination of inputs from the various device sensors to assess the ambient conditions of the mobile device .

In box the notification library determines whether a notification rule is defined that applies to the ambient conditions as captured by the device sensors. As noted above in one embodiment the notification library can determine based upon the ambient conditions whether the ambient conditions are likely associated with elevated volume levels. In such a scenario the notification library can employ an escalated notification level. Alternatively the notification library may also determine based upon the ambient conditions whether the conditions are likely to be associated with lowered volume levels relative to a baseline volume level. In such a scenario the notification library can employ de escalated notification levels.

In box the notification library can apply a default notification level if a notification rule is not defined that applies to the ambient conditions. In one embodiment the default notification level can include generating the notifications requested by the user application taking into account whether the mobile device is in a quiet mode silent mode loud mode or other type of operating system setting that affects the type and or degree of device notifications desired by the user. In box if a notification rule is identified that corresponds to the ambient conditions the notification library can then identify a notification level that corresponds to the notification rule. The notification level specified by the notification rule can define various types of device notifications that should be applied. Finally in box the notification library can cause the device notification specified by the notification level applied to be generated in the mobile device .

Referring next to shown is a schematic block diagram of one example of a mobile device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The mobile device includes a processor circuit for example having a processor and a memory both of which are coupled to a local interface . To this end the mobile device may comprise for example a portable device such as laptop personal digital assistant cellular telephone or other device. The local interface may comprise for example a data bus with an accompanying address control bus or other bus structure as can be appreciated. The mobile device includes the display coupled to the local interface to allow the processor to apply visual data to the display . In some embodiments the mobile device can include other elements that are coupled to the local interface such as a location system configured to obtain location or position data associated with the mobile device and other systems as can be appreciated. In addition the mobile device includes various input output devices such as a capacitive touchscreen toggles push buttons microphones speakers vibration motors LEDs GNSS system wireless radios camera microphone light sensor gyroscope accelerometer proximity sensor other types of wired and or wireless network interfaces and other devices that are coupled to the local interface .

Stored in the memory are several components that are executable by the processor . In particular stored in the memory are an operating system the notification library one or more user applications and other systems and applications. Also various data may be stored for example in the memory or some other memory accessible to the mobile device . It is understood that there may be other applications that are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor as can be appreciated. Where any component discussed herein is implemented in the form of software any one of a number of programming languages such as for example C C Java Java Script Perl Python Flash or other programming languages.

A number of software components are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor . In this respect the term executable means a program file that is in a form that can ultimately be run by the processor . Examples of executable programs may be for example a compiled program that can be translated into machine code in a format that can be loaded into a random access portion of the memory and run by a respective processor source code that may be expressed in proper format such as object code that is capable of being loaded into a random access portion of the memory and executed by a processor or source code that may be interpreted by another executable program to generate instructions in a random access portion of the memory to be executed by a processor etc. An executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memory including for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard drive solid state drive USB flash drive memory card optical disc such as compact disc CD or digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk magnetic tape or other memory components.

The memory is defined herein as both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components. Volatile components are those that do not retain data values upon loss of power. Nonvolatile components are those that retain data upon a loss of power. Thus the memory may comprise for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard disk drives solid state drives USB flash drives memory cards accessed via a memory card reader floppy disks accessed via an associated floppy disk drive optical discs accessed via an optical disc drive magnetic tapes accessed via an appropriate tape drive and or other memory components or a combination of any two or more of these memory components. In addition the RAM may comprise for example static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM and other such devices. The ROM may comprise for example a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other like memory device.

In addition the processor may represent multiple processors and the memory may represent multiple memories that operate in parallel. In such a case the local interface may be an appropriate network that facilitates communication between any two of the multiple processors between any processor and any one of the memories or between any two of the memories etc. The local interface may comprise additional systems designed to coordinate this communication including for example performing load balancing. The processor may be of electrical or of some other available construction.

Although various systems and applications such as the notification library and or other systems and applications mentioned above may be depicted as being embodied in software or code executed by general purpose hardware such as processor based systems as discussed above as an alternative the same may also be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software general purpose hardware and dedicated hardware. If embodied in dedicated hardware such systems and applications can be implemented as a circuit or state machine that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include but are not limited to discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of one or more data signals application specific integrated circuits having appropriate logic gates or other components etc.

The flowchart of shows the architecture functionality and operation of an implementation of the notification library . If embodied in software each block may represent a module segment or portion of code that comprises program instructions to implement the specified logical function s . The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that comprises human readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that comprises numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as a processor in a computer system or other system. The machine code may be converted from the source code etc. If embodied in hardware each block may represent a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement the specified logical function s .

Although the flowchart of shows a specific order of execution it is understood that the order of execution may differ from that which is depicted. For example the order of execution of two or more blocks may be scrambled relative to the order shown. Also two or more blocks shown in succession in may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. In addition any number of counters state variables warning semaphores or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement or providing troubleshooting aids etc. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present disclosure.

Also where various systems and applications described herein such as the notification library and or other systems and applications comprise software or code each can be embodied in any computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system such as for example a processor in a computer system or other system. In this sense such systems or applications may comprise for example statements including instructions and declarations that can be fetched from the computer readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. In the context of the present disclosure a computer readable medium can be any medium that can contain store or maintain the above described systems and applications for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system. The computer readable medium can comprise any one of many physical media such as for example electronic magnetic optical or semiconductor media. More specific examples of a suitable computer readable medium would include but are not limited to magnetic tapes magnetic floppy diskettes magnetic hard drives memory cards solid state drives Universal Serial Bus USB flash drives or optical discs. Also the computer readable medium may be a random access memory RAM including for example static random access memory SRAM and dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM . In addition the computer readable medium may be a read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other type of memory device.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

