---

title: Dynamically tuning server placement
abstract: An input is received relative to a user objective. An application placement consideration is established based upon, at least in part, the user objective. A best-fit application placement is dynamically determined for a plurality of applications relative to a plurality of servers based upon, at least in part, the application placement consideration.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09594596&OS=09594596&RS=09594596
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09594596
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120329
---
The subject application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 173 440 filed Jun. 30 2011 the entire content of which is herein incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure generally relates to server computing environments and more particularly relates to placing applications on servers.

Server installations may be utilized to provide data centers cloud computing resources and the like. Such server installation may include a multitude of servers that may each often host many separate applications. The manner in which the applications are distributed across the various servers is often directed at maximizing the utilization of the various servers and minimizing the costs associated with the operation of the server installation. The objectives of maximizing server utilization and minimizing operating costs can be based on many variables that may often be directed by various policies that may be established by the operator of the server installation.

In a first embodiment a method includes receiving by a computing device an input relative to a user objective. An application placement consideration may be established based upon at least in part the user objective. A best fit application placement may be dynamically determined for a plurality of applications relative to a plurality of servers based upon at least in part the application placement consideration.

One or more of the following features may be included. Establishing the application placement consideration may include establishing an application placement consideration priority based upon at least in part the user objective. Dynamically determining the best fit application placement may include resolving application placement consideration conflicts based upon at least in part the application placement consideration priority.

The application placement consideration may include one or more of a server capital expense consideration a server operational expense consideration an application collocation consideration and an application anti location consideration. One or more of the server capital expense consideration and the sever operation expense consideration may include one or more of a server capital cost a license cost a server setup cost a server AMC cost an energy cost a system administration cost and a server life cost.

The best fit application placement may include resources assignment optimization of the plurality of servers relative to the plurality of applications. Dynamically determining the best fit application placement may include evaluating a plurality of application placement considerations and determining a new placement for the plurality of applications relative to the plurality of servers.

According to another implementation a computer program product includes a computer readable medium having a plurality of instructions store on it. When executed by a processor the instructions may cause the processor to perform operations including receiving an input relative to a user objective. An application placement consideration may be established based upon at least in part the user objective. A best fit application placement may be dynamically determined for a plurality of applications relative to a plurality of servers based upon at least in part the application placement consideration.

One or more of the following features may be included. The instructions for establishing the application placement consideration may include instructions for establishing an application placement consideration priority based upon at least in part the user objective. The instructions for dynamically determining the best fit application placement may include instructions for resolving application placement consideration conflicts based upon at least in part the application placement consideration priority.

The application placement consideration may include one or more of a server capital expense consideration a server operational expense consideration an application collocation consideration and an application anti location consideration. One or more of the server capital expense consideration and the sever operation expense consideration may include one or more of a server capital cost a license cost a server setup cost a server AMC cost an energy cost a system administration cost and a server life cost.

The best fit application placement may include resources assignment optimization of the plurality of servers relative to the a plurality of applications. The instructions for dynamically determining the best fit application placement may include instructions for evaluating a plurality of application placement considerations and determining a new placement for the plurality of applications relative to the plurality of servers.

According to yet another implementation a system includes a processor and a memory architecture coupled with the processor. A first software module may be executable by the processor and the memory architecture. The first software module may be configured to receive an input relative to a user objective. A second software module may be executable by the processor and the memory architecture. The second software module may be configured to establish an application placement consideration based upon at least in part the user objective. A third software module may be executable by the processor and the memory architecture. The third software module configured to dynamically determine a best fit application placement for a plurality of applications relative to a plurality of servers based upon at least in part the application placement consideration.

One or more of the following features may be included. The second software module configured to establish the application placement consideration may be further configured to establish an application placement consideration priority based upon at least in part the user objective. The third software module configured to dynamically determine the best fit application placement may be further configured to resolve application placement consideration conflicts based upon at least in part the application placement consideration priority.

The application placement consideration may include one or more of a server capital expense consideration a server operational expense consideration an application collocation consideration and an application anti location consideration. One or more of the server capital expense consideration and the sever operation expense consideration include one or more of a server capital cost a license cost a server setup cost a server AMC cost an energy cost a system administration cost and a server life cost.

The best fit application placement may include resources assignment optimization of the plurality of servers relative to the a plurality of applications. The third software module configured to dynamically determine the best fit application placement is further configured to evaluate a plurality of application placement considerations and determining a new placement for the plurality of applications relative to the plurality of servers.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the present invention may be embodied as a method system or computer program product. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any suitable computer usable or computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer usable or computer readable storage medium including a storage device associated with a computing device or client electronic device may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program coded embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may be written in an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like. However the computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The present invention is described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Referring to there is shown tuning process that may determine at least in part application placement within server computing environment . Server computing environment may include but is not limited to for example a public or private cloud computing environment a data center or other environment including a plurality of server computers executing a plurality of applications. As shown server computing environment may include hardware resources and software resources . Hardware resources may include but are not limited to one or more server computers e.g. servers s through sn and one or more storage devices e.g. storage devices d through dn . Software resources may include one or more server based applications e.g. applications a through an . Applications a an may include at least in part virtual machines that may execute various additional applications. Further one or more of applications a through an may but is not required to include a multi tier application. As is understood a multi tier application may include a plurality of interacting modules and or components or may include a plurality of discrete interacting applications. For example a multi tier application may include a user interface component e.g. which may generate and output displays that may be viewed by clients C through Cn an application component e.g. which may control the application s functionality and a data component e.g. which may store and retrieve information that may be utilized by the application component . Other examples of multi tier applications may include components having differing functionality and as such the foregoing example should not be construed as a limitation of the present disclosure.

An example of servers s through sn e.g. which may include one or more processors and one or more memory architectures not shown may include but is not limited to a blade server such as an IBM BladeCenter PS704 Express or other server computer. Examples of storage devices d through dn may include but are not limited to a hard disk drive a solid state drive an optical drive random access memory read only memory and the like. Servers s through sn may each execute an appropriate operating system such as Red Hat Linux for example which may be stored on one or more of storage devices d through dn. Red Hat is a registered trademark of Red Hat Corporation in the United States other countries or both and Linux is a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the United States other countries or both. 

While not shown server computing environment may include additional hardware and software that may allow hardware resources and software resources to be accesses by one or more clients e.g. clients C through Cn . Such additional hardware and software may include but is not limited to e.g. switches bridges web servers and the like which may allow clients C through Cn to access hardware resources and or software resources . Additionally clients C through Cn may access server computing environment through one or more networks including but not limited to the Internet a local area network a wide area network or other computing network. Clients C through Cn may access server computing environment using any suitable computing devices including but not limited to desktop computers notebook computers mobile computing devices e.g. data enabled cellular telephones netbooks personal digital assistants etc. executing various software such as web browsers or application specific software.

Referring also to tuning process may receive an input relative to a user objective. Further tuning process may establish an application placement consideration based upon at least in part the user objective. Tuning process may also dynamically determine a best fit application placement for a plurality of applications relative to a plurality of servers based upon at least in part the application placement consideration.

In general tuning process may dynamically determine a best fit application placement for a plurality of applications e.g. applications a an on a plurality of servers e.g. servers s sn which may be physical hosts for the applications . The best fit application placement for the plurality of applications relative to the plurality of servers may include as one objective a reduction in the capital and operating costs of server computing environment while maintaining an acceptable level of performance of the applications e.g. applications a an executed on the plurality of servers e.g. servers sn s . As will be appreciated a server e.g. servers s sn which may include a physical host for applications a an may be capable of hosting e.g. running a plurality of applications e.g. applications a an which may include one or more virtual machines that may in turn each execute one or more other applications . However the manner in which applications a an are placed on servers s sn e.g. which applications are executed by which physical hosts which applications are executed by a common physical host and which applications are executed by a different physical host from another application may influence the capital expenses and operating expenses of server computing environment . A best fit application placement for a given group of applications e.g. applications a an relative to a given group of physical hosts e.g. servers s sn may include a variety of trade offs and or compromises between capital expenses associated with server computing environment operating expenses associated with server computing environment and performance of applications executing within server computing environment.

Consistent with an aspect of the present disclosure receiving an input relative to a user objective may influence the afore mentioned trade offs and or compromises that may occur in achieving a best fit application placement. As used herein the user may include the end user or customer entity e.g. an individual a corporate entity or the like having applications hosted by server computing environment . It will be appreciated that server computing environment may include a plurality of discrete users having a plurality of discrete applications hosted by server computing environment . In some instances the one or more users may be a discrete entity from the operator of server computing environment . For example the operator of server computing environment may include the owner of the physical resources e.g. servers s sn the administrator of the server computing environment.

Based upon at least in part the input received relative to the user objective tuning process may establish an application placement consideration e.g. which may in part influence the best fit application placement. The input relative to the user objective may be received e.g. via any suitable interface such as a REST API representational state transfer application programming interface webservice or the like. The objective of the user may include for example a business objective or business goal of the user e.g. with respect to the use and or management of the applications hosted by server computing environment . For example user objectives with respect to applications hosted by server computing environment may include but is not limited to optimized performance of the applications optimized availability of the applications reduced capital expense reduces operating expense etc.

Tuning process may establish an application placement consideration based upon at least in part the received input relative to the user objective. Establishing an application placement consideration may include mapping the objective of the user to a consideration that may be used as an input or may otherwise influence the best fit application placement. For example an application placement consideration may be established to optimize one or more of a server capital expense consideration a server operational expense consideration an application collocation consideration and an application anti location consideration. Further the received input may include user objectives related to one or more of a server capital cost a license cost a server setup cost a server annual maintenance contract cost AMC cost for maintenance of the system and or software an energy cost a system administration cost and a server life cost. The received input may also include a designation of each of the foregoing items being included as a capital expense or an operating expense.

Establishing the application placement consideration may include establishing an application placement consideration priority based upon at least in part the user objective. Further dynamically determining the best fit application placement may include resolving application placement consideration conflicts based upon at least in part the application placement consideration priority. For example tuning process may receive an input relative to a user objective that may indicate that a user objective of optimizing e.g. reducing capital expense. As such tuning process may establish an application placement consideration priority in favor of collocation of applications e.g. hosting applications a and a on common physical server s . Such collocation of applications a and a may optimize physical resources. However applications a and a may for example be bandwidth intensive applications that may exhibit greater performance when anti located e.g. each of applications a and a are hosted on separate physical servers . As such a conflict between collocation and therein optimized capital expense and optimized performance may be resolved in favor of collocation based upon at least in part the established application placement consideration priority for collocation. Accordingly a best fit application placement may include collocating applications a and a on the same server e.g. s . Similarly based upon at least in part a received input relative to a user objective for optimized performance of a particular application e.g. application a tuning process may establish a location priority with respect to a particular server e.g. server s which may for example include particular hardware resources that may provided improved performance of application a when hosted by server s as compared to being hosted by another server e.g. which may not include the particular hardware resources . In such a situation a conflict between the preference for performance e.g. which may indicate a desirability of application a being hosted by server s and capital expense e.g. which may result from hosting application a on server s as opposed to hosting application a on another server may be resolved based upon at least in part the established application placement consideration priority e.g. which may include the location priority .

Consistent with the foregoing tuning process may establish application placement considerations and may establish placement consideration priorities according to received inputs related to user objectives. Further tuning process may dynamically determine a best fit application placement for a plurality of applications relative to a plurality of servers based upon at least in part the application placement considerations. In this manner dynamically determining best fit application placement may include an at least partially stochastic process in which the application considerations and application consideration priorities are not fixed but may depend upon inputs received relating to user objectives. As such the user objectives may influence the placement of the plurality of applications relative to the plurality of servers.

As discussed above tuning process may establish one or more application placement considerations based upon at least in part received inputs related to user objectives. However it will be appreciated that user objectives may not influence all possible application placement considerations. As such default application placement considerations may be included. Such default application placement considerations may relate to but are not limited to optimizing capital expense optimizing operational expense rules relating to collocation and anti location of applications performance optimization and the like. Such default application placement considerations may include default priorities e.g. for the purpose of resolving conflicts with other application placement considerations . In the absence of being modified by received inputs related to user objectives default priorities of default application placement considerations may be based upon at least in part policies established by the server computer environment operator historical performance and cost data collected by monitoring various attributes of server computer environment over a course of time etc. However the default application placement considerations and default priorities thereof may be modified based upon at least in part received inputs related to user objectives e.g. via establishing application placement considerations by tuning process .

As generally described above the best fit application placement may include resources assignment optimization of the plurality of servers relative to the plurality of applications. That is the best fit application placement may create an application hosting map that may indicate which applications should be hosted by which servers in order to optimize capital expense operating expense performance and the like taking into consideration the application placement considerations and application placement consideration priorities established based upon the received inputs related to the user objectives. Referring to and continuing with the foregoing example an application map is diagrammatically depicted in which applications a and a may desirably be collocated on the same server e.g. server s and application a may be located on a specific server e.g. server s having particular hardware resources. Further server s may be unpopulated thereby saving operational expense. It should be noted that for the purpose of clarity or illustration and description while only three servers namely servers s s s and three applications namely applications a a a are depicted server computing environment may include any number of servers and applications depending upon user need and design criteria and should not be construed as a limitation of the present disclosure.

Dynamically determining the best fit application placement may include evaluating a plurality of application placement considerations e.g. which may include both default application placement considerations as well as application placement considerations established based upon at least in part received inputs related to user objectives and determine a new placement for the plurality of applications relative to the plurality of servers. For example as tuning process may dynamically determine a best fit application placement at any point in time either in real time or at time intervals that an application placement consideration may be established e.g. based upon a received input or an application consideration priority may be established or changed tuning process may evaluate the application placement considerations and determine a new placement of the plurality of applications relative to the plurality of servers which may be different than a prior placement. In this regard when dynamically determining best fit application placement tuning process may consider e.g. evaluate all application placement considerations and any application consideration priorities from all users of server computing environment . Further tuning process may ascertain all such application considerations and application consideration priorities prior to dynamically determining the best fit application placement thereby allowing the dynamically determined best fit application placement to be based upon at least in part such application placement considerations and application placement consideration priorities.

For example in an embodiment user may provide input and or priority indication with respect to various application placement considerations including but not limited to Capital Expense CapEx of the server 2 Operational Expense OpEx of the server 3 collocation of virtual machines or other applications and anti location of virtual machines or other applications . The expense related application placement considerations e.g. CapEx and OpEx may be further classified by the user and the user may provide input indicating what expense type e.g. CapEx or OpEx each further classification should be categorized as. Examples of further classifications of expense related application placement considerations may include but are not limited to capital cost of servers additional license cost of servers based upon at least in part processors setup cost of servers AMC cost of server per 12 months energy cost of servers per month system administration cost per server per month and useful life of servers e.g. in terms of the number of months or years .

In consideration of the foregoing application placement considerations the total cost of a server deployment e.g. server farm data center etc. may be calculated as the sum of CapEx and OpEx cost of each of the servers used for the server deployment. According to the instant illustrative embodiment the server cost Cof a given server may be defined as the sum of CapEx and OpEx of a given server for a period of time. For example to calculate server cost of a given server for a period of 12 months may be given by The total server cost for 12 months Capital cost of server additional processor license cost per 12 months One time setup cost AMC for 12 months energy per month 12 months sys admin cost per month 12 months

Continuing with the foregoing illustrative example the objective function of the solution may be to minimize the total cost of the server farm deployment using stochastic optimization technique while considering the priority of the application placement considerations. Accordingly the objective function may be to minimize the total cost to deploy all of the application subject to various constraints examples of which are provided below for illustrative purposes.

It may be noted that in some instances virtualization features may require resources and such resources may not be available for application usage.

This constraint may aid in addressing the SLA service level agreement during various application workloads on the server.

This constraint may also aid in addressing the SLA during various application workloads on the server.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

Having thus described the invention of the present application in detail and by reference to embodiments thereof it will be apparent that modifications and variations are possible without departing from the scope of the invention defined in the appended claims.

