---

title: Providing user authentication
abstract: In particular embodiments, a user associated with a user account wishes to utilize their computing device to facilitate authentication of their identity. The user may provide a device key to an online system hosting the user account, wherein the device key uniquely identifies their computing device. The device key may be based on a device identifier encoded in hardware of the computing device. The online system may then store the device key in association with the user account. Subsequently, if an action related to the online system requires authentication, the user may be asked to provide authentication using their computing device. The user generates an authentication code using their device, which can be entered by the user into a user interface for comparison against an authentication code generated using the device key stored by the online system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09444624&OS=09444624&RS=09444624
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09444624
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121102
---
This disclosure generally relates to user authentication in particular user authentication in association with an identified device.

A mobile computing device such as a smartphone tablet computer or laptop computer may include functionality for determining its location direction or orientation such as a GPS receiver compass or gyroscope. Such a device may also include functionality for wireless communication such as BLUETOOTH communication near field communication NFC or infrared IR communication or communication with a wireless local area networks WLANs or cellular telephone network. Such a device may also include one or more cameras scanners touchscreens microphones or speakers. Mobile computing devices may also execute software applications such as games web browsers or social networking applications. With social networking applications users may connect communicate and share information with other users in their social networks.

In particular embodiments users associated with a personal computing device can use the personal computing device to authenticate their identity in association with an online system where the user has a user account. A device identifier may be imprinted on to a chip in the personal computing device. The identifier is provided to the online system to be associated with the user account. After that point whenever the online system requires additional verification of the user s identity the user can use their personal computing device to generate a code based on the device identifier and enter the code into an interface provided by the online system. The online system can then generate its own comparable code based on the device identifier and then compare the code entered by the user to the generated code to see if they match. In particular embodiments a third party system may also be able to utilize this authentication functionality by requiring the user to enter the code and requesting a generated code from the online system. A disavowal process may also be provided in order to enable the user to disassociate their identity with the device identifier prior to selling giving away or otherwise disposing of the personal computing device.

In the example wireframe in a user of device has decided to utilize the Authentication Code Generator functionality so as to enable a higher level of security for actions taken with respect to an online system where the user has set up a user account. In order to use this functionality the user must first associate device with the user s account in the online system. Device displays an interface on display screen with instructions on how to do this. The device identifier shown on display screen may be the device identifier or it may be a derivative generated by device e.g. a cryptographic hash of the device identifier and the username and password associated with the user s user account.

In the example wireframe in a browser screen is illustrated. Browser screen may be displayed on another computing device e.g. a desktop computer of the user. Browser screen displays a GUI including entry fields where the user can type in the device identifier once it is displayed on the screen of device . In particular embodiments once the user has entered the device identifier and clicked on the Activate button the online system stores the device identifier in a user profile for the user account. In particular embodiments no display or entry of the device identifier by the user into a browser may be necessary all that may be required is to simply click a button or configure a setting in an interface displayed on device at which point device uploads the device identifier to the online system without further input by the user.

In the example wireframe in the user is attempting an action requiring heightened security in this case a password reset while using the other computing device e.g. a desktop computer of the user. In browser screen the Reset Password GUI is requiring the user to generate an authentication code on device and enter the authentication code into entry fields . While the user is generating and entering the authentication code online system uses the device identifier associated with the user to generate its own version of the authentication code e.g. a hash of the device identifier and a timestamp.

In the example wireframe in the user utilizes the Authentication Code Generator program on device to generate an authentication code that is then displayed on screen of device . Authentication code is generated based on the device identifier stored on device using the same method used by the online system. Once the user enters authentication code into entry fields and clicks the Authenticate button the online system compares the authentication code it generated with the authentication code entered by the user into entry fields . If the two codes match the user is deemed authenticated. In this manner the user is afforded extra security against those who might attempt to access the user s account and perform certain actions.

The steps involved in providing authentication functionality based on user association with an identified device as shown in are described in further detail in and related text in the specification.

In step a user account for the user is created in the online system. In particular embodiments the user account may be associated with user profile information. In particular embodiments the user may begin using a device on which authentication code generating functionality may be available.

In step the online system receives a device key this device key may be the device identifier or it may be a derivative generated by the device e.g. a cryptographic hash of the device identifier and the username and password associated with the user s user account. Any conventional technique for generating such a derivative of the device identifier may be utilized such as for example and without limitation using a cryptographic hash algorithm e.g. SHA 1 SHA 2 MD5 HAVAL RadioGat n RIPEMD 160 SWIFFT Tiger2 Whirlpool VSH . This device key may be entered by the user e.g. by typing it into a GUI provided in a browser or other application or otherwise entering it into a user interface or sent directly by the device associated with the user. In particular embodiments the device may first attempt to send the device key directly to the online system and only require the user to enter the device key manually if the device does not have sufficient network connectivity or if the online system fails to send back an acknowledgment that it was received. In particular embodiments when the user is entering the device key manually into an interface provided using a browser or other application the interface may have required the user to enter the authentication code twice as a safeguard against error. In particular embodiments the online system may require the user to wait until the device has sufficient network connectivity to send the device key directly to the online system.

In step the online system stores the device key in association with the user account of the user for use in future situations requiring additional authentication. The device key may be stored as a part of the user s profile information. In particular embodiments where the device key is based on the device identifier and also other elements such as the user s username password or other personal information whenever the user updates one or more of the other elements the user may be required to re generate the device key and update the version stored on the online system.

In step the online system receives a request via the user s browser or other application to take an action requiring authentication. In particular embodiments authentication may be required for such an action by default or based on a context of the action e.g. requesting a password reset after multiple recent unsuccessful attempts to log in or based on configuration settings configured by the user. In particular embodiments where third party access is provided for authentication functionality the request may have been received at a third party system.

In step the online server displays an interface in the user s browser or other application for the user to enter an authentication code generated by their device which is based on the device key. In the context of third party access either the third party system may provide the interface for the user to enter the authentication code or the third party system may enable display of an interface by the online server e.g. in a pop up window or in an iframe . At this point the device user uses their device to generate an authentication code and enters it into the interface. In particular embodiments the authentication code may be a derivative of the device key such as for example and without limitation a cryptographic hash of the device key and a truncated timestamp. In particular embodiments the interface provided by the online server may enable entry of the authentication code from the device in a more automated fashion such as scanning an image of a QR code displayed on the screen of the device and captured by a webcam.

In step the online server receives the authentication code entered by the device user using the interface. In particular embodiments rather than providing an interface for the user to enter the authentication code the online server may request that the user transmit the authentication code generated by the device to the online server directly from the device if sufficient network connectivity exists for the device. For example the online server may instruct the user to utilize an interface on the device which may enable to user to click a button or otherwise indicate that an authentication code should be sent directly to the online server. For example the user may open an authentication code generator application on the device from which the user can simply click a button to transmit an authentication code or in more secure versions of this interface in order to transmit the authentication code the user may be required to enter a password perform a swipe gesture in a particular pattern provide biometric identification etc.

In step the online server generates its own version of the authentication code based on the device key. In particular embodiments the method used by the online server is the same as the method used by the device to generate its version of the authentication code.

In step the online server compares the authentication code entered by the user with the authentication code generated by the online server. If the two codes match the user is deemed authenticated. If the two authentication codes fail to match the user may be asked to generate a new authentication code and the online server will generate a new authentication code and the two new authentication codes will be compared. In the example provided above where the authentication code is based on a hash incorporating a truncated timestamp this technique enables generation of authentication codes that expire within a set period of time corresponding to the truncated timestamp e.g. every one minute or every hour . For this reason it may be more common that the two authentication codes fail to match because either the user generated authentication code or the system generated authentication code expired prior to comparison.

A disavowal process may also be provided in order to enable the user to disassociate their identity with the device identifier prior to selling giving away or otherwise disposing of the computing device. When the user provides an indication that they wish to disavow their association with the computing device one example of the disavowal process may comprise deleting the device key and any authentication codes based on the device key from the online server as well as from the computing device itself. In particular embodiments the user may be required to enter a confirmation of such an action e.g. by entering their password . In particular embodiments the user may also log out of the computing device and thereby disavow their association with the computing device. In particular embodiments such a disavowal may be reversible for a predetermined period of time after taking such an action in order to prevent the scenario where such action was taken in error.

In the meantime online system generates its own version of the authentication code based on the device key stored in the online system in association with the user account. At this point the user may access the authentication code generator functionality on computing device to generate an authentication code and enter it into the interface. Once online system provides its generated authentication code to third party system and third party system receives then authentication code entered by the user third party system then compares the user entered authentication code with the system generated authentication code in order to determine whether the user can be deemed authenticated.

In particular embodiments an application programming interface API or other third party interface may be provided in order to enable third party system to access the authentication functionality.

In particular embodiments user may be an individual human user an entity e.g. an enterprise business or third party application or a group e.g. of individuals or entities that interacts or communicates with or over online system . In particular embodiments online system may be a network addressable computing system hosting applications. Online system may generate store receive and transmit user associated data such as for example user profile data concept profile data social graph information or other suitable data related to the online system. Online system may be accessed by the other components of network environment either directly or via network . In particular embodiments online system may include an authorization server that allows users to opt in or opt out of having their actions logged by online system or shared with other systems e.g. third party systems such as for example by setting appropriate privacy settings. In particular embodiments third party system may be a network addressable computing system that can host third party content objects and serve content and or provide a third party advertisement serving engine. Third party system may generate store receive and transmit third party content and or sponsored content such as for example advertisements incentive program notifications coupons etc. Third party system may be accessed by the other components of network environment either directly or via network . In particular embodiments one or more users may use one or more client systems to access send data to and receive data from online system or third party system . Client system may access online system or third party system directly via network or via a third party system. As an example and not by way of limitation client system may access third party system via online system . Client system may be any suitable computing device such as for example a personal computer a laptop computer a cellular telephone a smartphone or a tablet computer.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable network . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more portions of network may include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network or a combination of two or more of these. Network may include one or more networks .

Links may connect client system online system and third party system to communication network or to each other. This disclosure contemplates any suitable links . In particular embodiments one or more links include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH links. In particular embodiments one or more links each include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a WWAN a MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the PSTN a cellular technology based network a satellite communications technology based network another link or a combination of two or more such links . Links need not necessarily be the same throughout network environment . One or more first links may differ in one or more respects from one or more second links .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system another mobile computing device or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple data centers or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a hard disk drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCIe bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein a computer readable non transitory storage medium or media may include one or more semiconductor based or other integrated circuits ICs such as for example field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or application specific ICs ASICs hard disk drives HDDs hybrid hard drives HHDs optical discs optical disc drives ODDs magneto optical discs magneto optical drives floppy diskettes floppy disk drives FDDs magnetic tapes solid state drives SSDs RAM drives SECURE DIGITAL cards or drives any other suitable computer readable non transitory storage media or any suitable combination of two or more of these where appropriate. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

The scope of this disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. The scope of this disclosure is not limited to the example embodiments described or illustrated herein. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates respective embodiments herein as including particular components elements functions operations or steps any of these embodiments may include any combination or permutation of any of the components elements functions operations or steps described or illustrated anywhere herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Furthermore reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

