---

title: Systems and methods for intelligent call transcription
abstract: Intelligent call transcript systems and methods are disclosed. An intelligent call transcript system can create a transcript of a telephonic communication and supplement the transcript with additional information automatically or upon request. Additional information may be added when key words are detected, such as adding acronym expansion when an acronym is detected or adding identifying information to an important task when mention of the task is detected. Portions of the transcript may also be sent as messages, text-based or audio, upon detection of key words or at the instruction of a user or device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08611507&OS=08611507&RS=08611507
owner: AT&T Mobility II LLC
number: 08611507
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121130
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 340 297 filed Dec. 19 2008 entitled Systems and Methods for Intelligent Call Transcription the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

During telephone conversations including conference calls participants in the conversation may often find it useful to have a transcript of the conversation. Other interested parties who were not participants in the call may also find it useful to have a transcript. While transcription technology has advanced in recent years it can be difficult to get the complete meaning of words spoken without hearing the speaker s voice including characteristics such as the tone inflection emphasis and other qualities of the spoken words.

Often during a telephonic communication such as a conference call items will be discussed that need to be addressed or remembered at a later time. It can be difficult to identify these items at a later time even with a transcript of the communication especially if the conversation was over an extended period of time resulting in a lengthy transcript. This is even more of a problem if the person reviewing the transcript was not participating in the telephonic communication. In these and other situations there exists a need to improve to functionality and usefulness of transcription systems.

Systems and methods are provided herein for intelligent call transcript systems and methods. A telephonic or other audible communication may be transcribed into text by using the systems and methods described. Events may be detected that trigger actions taken by the system. Events may include the detection of key words phrases or other sounds. Events may also include the receipt of commands or instructions by the system. The action taken in response to the detections of an event may include adding supplemental information to the transcript. Such information may include translations expansion of acronyms links to other information links to audio recordings of the communication tags indicators of important portions of the transcript pictures emoticons video or any other information that may be of interest.

Other actions taken may include sending a message with a portion of the transcribed text to a user or device. Alternatively a voice message may be generated and transmitted containing an audio portion of the telephonic communication.

These and other features and advantages of various exemplary embodiments of systems and methods according to this disclosure are described in or are apparent from the following detailed description of various exemplary embodiments of the systems and methods of this subject matter.

The subject matter of the disclosed embodiments is described with specificity to meet statutory requirements. However the description itself is not intended to limit the scope of this patent. Rather the inventors have contemplated that the claimed subject matter might also be embodied in other ways to include different steps or elements similar to the ones described in this document in conjunction with other present or future technologies. Moreover although the term step may be used herein to connote different aspects of methods employed the term should not be interpreted as implying any particular order among or between various steps herein disclosed unless and except when the order of individual steps is explicitly described.

In the discussion that follows details relating to telephony devices and networks are assumed to be known to those skilled in the art. Accordingly such details are largely omitted herein for the sake of clarity and explanation. In addition any references herein to an example embodiment involving a cellular wireless or mobile telephone are used solely for purposes of explanation and are not intended to limit the invention to any such embodiment. For example a wireless device as contemplated by various embodiments of the invention may include but is not limited to cellular telephones personal digital assistants PDAs email devices portable and non portable computers and the like. The wireless device may operate in a cellular SMR PCS cordless unlicensed AWS 700 MHz or other spectrums. Furthermore embodiments are not limited by the network servicing the device. Accordingly embodiments may be applicable to any network type including for example TDMA CDMA WCDMA GSM WiFi WiMAX OFDM UMTS EV DO HSDPA HSUPA and other standards now known or to be developed in the future.

User may be operating mobile communications device as a means to participate in the telephonic communication. Mobile communications device may be any type of mobile communications device as described herein or any device capable of wirelessly facilitating telephonic communications. For example mobile communications device may be a mobile wireless and or cellular telephone of any type a personal data assistant PDA a laptop or other mobile computer or any other mobile telephony capable device.

Similarly user may be using mobile communications device to participate in the telephonic communication. Mobile communications device may also be any type of mobile communications device as described herein or any device capable of wirelessly facilitating telephonic communications. For example mobile communications device may be a cellular telephone a mobile telephone of any type a personal data assistant PDA a laptop or other mobile computer or any other mobile telephony capable device.

User may be using wired communications device to participate in the telephonic communication. Wired communications device may be any type of wired communications device capable of facilitating telephonic communications including a traditional telephone an internet protocol IP telephone a digital telephone a computer of any type configured to facilitate telephonic communications or any other wired telephony capable device.

Users and through the operation of devices and may be communicating through network . Network may be one or more wired and or wireless network of any type non limiting examples of which are described herein or any combinations thereof. Any form of telecommunications voice or data network or any combination of such networks may be present in network .

Network device may be communicatively connected to network may be a subsystem of network and may be operated owned and or maintained by the operator of network or by a third party. Network device may or may not be geographically located in the same room building region or area as other devices that make up network . Network device may facilitate the telephonic communication between user and . Network device may provide telephony services as known to those skilled in the art. For example network device may function as a private branch exchange PBX . In one embodiment network device provides intelligent call transcription services as described herein.

Network device may be configured to transcribe the telephonic communication between users and . Network device may use any transcription method or means that can convert the spoken words or other sounds detected in the telephonic communication into text. Any automated or computerized speech recognition system means or methods may be employed to transcribe the telephonic communication. Network device may also be configured to perform other network tasks or may be configured only for intelligent transcription of telephonic communications. Transcription may be performed using any means known to those skilled in the art and may be performed by default for example when used in conjunction with a conference call system or may be perform at the instruction of a user or device. The transcribed telephonic communication may be provided in any form of transcript including electronic documents and other electronic forms of text presentation. Such electronic transcripts may include software and data that allow a user device or software to manipulate alter and or perform further processing on the transcript. Electronic versions of the transcript may also integrate software and or data such that the transcript itself is an executable software application.

In addition to transcribing the telephonic communication network device may record and or store the communication on one or more computer storage devices such as a hard disk drive or random access memory and or on magnetic or digital tape disks or other media or any other effective recording or storage means. If the telephonic communication is stored in some manner transcription may be performed before during or after the telephonic communication is stored.

Network device may also be configured to accept instructions and or commands from users and or other network devices directly and or through network . Such instructions may be received through one or more interfaces such as a web page an application or an application programming interface. These interfaces may be used in conjunction with other devices and or software that allow a user and or another device to issue instructions to network device . Instructions may also be transmitted to network device through the use of tone generated by a telephone such as dual tone multi frequency DTMF tones. Instructions may also be detected by network device through voice or speech recognition. Instructions may also be detected or received by one or more other devices that responsive to receiving or detecting the instruction transmit one or more instructions to network device . In some embodiments network device may only accept or recognize instructions from approved or designated users or devices. For example a designated chairperson in a conference call may be the only user permitted to instruct network device to begin transcribing a telephonic communication. All other means and methods of issuing and receiving instructions on a device and all other methods and means of restricting the ability of users and devices to issue instructions to a device are contemplated as within the scope of the present disclosure.

In one embodiment network device transcribes the entire telephonic communication. In an alternative embodiment network device may transcribe only a portion of the telephonic communication. Network device may receive a command or instruction from a user or device instructing network device when to begin and or when to stop transcribing a telephonic communication. For example user may operate mobile communications device by pressing a key on a key pad of mobile communications device sending a tone to network . Network may transmit this tone to network device which may be configured to recognize such tones and perform actions in response to such tones. Alternatively network and or one or more devices within network may be configured to detect such tones and in response to detecting the tone transmit an instruction or command to network device .

In another alternative network device may be configured to detect certain voice commands or speech that network device may interpret as a command or instructions. For example user may say begin transcription during the telephonic communication which network device may recognize as a command and begin transcription. Alternatively network and or one or more devices within network may be configured to detect such voice commands and in response to detecting the voice command transmit an instruction or command to network device .

In one embodiment a command may be received or detected that instructs network device to stream the transcript as it is created to one or more designated or default devices or users. Such a feature may be helpful to those users who are in an area where listening to a conversation is difficult such as an area with loud noise present or where absolute silence is requires. In such an embodiment the transcript may be streamed as it is created or the transcript may be streamed at a point in the future for later reference. Other embodiments of streaming transcripts are contemplated.

In still another alternative network device may receive instructions to begin and or end transcription through an interface. For example user may operate a web browser on mobile communications device or on a separate device which displays a web interface to network device or to another device that is communicatively connected to network device . This interface may allow user to instruct network device to begin transcribing the telephonic communication. In another embodiment network device may receive an instruction to enter a mode in which instructions are received regarding transcription commands. For example a user may send a tone command to network device by pressing the key. Network device may recognize this as an instruction to enter transcription command mode. Thereafter network device may begin recognizing command or instructions such as voice commands that affect call transcription. All other means or methods of instructing network device to begin and or end transcription of a telephonic communication and all other means and methods of instructing network device when and if to accept transcription commands are contemplated as within the scope of the present disclosure.

In one embodiment network device may record or store the telephonic communication during before or after the transcription. In another embodiment network device may maintain a temporary recording of the telephonic communication as it is ongoing in a buffer or similar storage means and move the temporarily stored telephonic communication to permanent storage upon instruction received from a user administrator or device. In some embodiments network device may maintain the entire telephonic communication in a buffer. In other embodiments network device may maintain only a preconfigured amount of the telephonic communication in a buffer for example the most recent ten minutes allowing a user to direct network device to move the buffered amount of the telephonic communication to permanent storage as desired. Other means and methods of selecting or directing portions or the entirety of a telephonic communication to be stored permanently are contemplated as within the scope of the present disclosure.

Network device may correlate the transcribed text with the recording time of the recorded telephonic communication and insert one or more tags into the transcript based on the recording time. Such tags may be links hyperlinks data metadata or any other indicator or software construct that connects or references the audio recording of the telephonic communication. For example as described in more detail below network device may include in the transcript a tag associated with each or selected words in the transcript. Alternatively network device may label sentences words or portions of the transcript and associate a tag with each label. For example network device may identify each speaker in the telephonic communication and add the speaker s name or other identifier to the transcript. Network device may create and associate a tag with each name or identifier. Other items within a transcript may have tags associated with them and all such items are contemplated as within the scope of the present disclosure.

The tag associated with a word name identifier etc. may serve as a connector to an audio recording of the telephonic communication. The audio recording may be a separate file apart from the transcript or it may be embedded integrated or otherwise included within the transcript. When such a tag is activated it may initiate the playing of the audio recording. Such playing may include the launching of an application to play audio files. Activation of the tag may instruct the audio recording or a related application to start playing the recording at the time that the word with which the tag is associated was spoken in the telephonic communication. Alternatively the recording or its associated application may be instructed to begin playing the recording at a predetermined amount of time before or after the time that the word with which the tag is associated was spoken in the telephonic communication. For example if a user of the transcript clicks on a tag associated with the word budget the audio recording or its associated application may be instructed to play the audio recording starting ten seconds before that instance of the word budget was said in the telephonic communication. The timing of when to start playing the audio recording of a telephonic communication in relation to when the selected word was said may be configured by a user or another device and may be adjustable at any point during the telephonic communication or during the use of the transcript.

Alternatively the recording or its associated application may be instructed to begin playing the recording at a predetermined point before or after the time that the word with which the tag is associated was spoken in the telephonic communication. For example if a user of the transcript clicks on a tag associated with the word budget the audio recording or its associated application may be instructed to play the audio recording starting at the sentence in which that instance of the word budget was said in the telephonic communication. In yet another alternative the audio recording or its associated application may be instructed to play the audio recording at the point when the speaker who said that instance of the word budget most recently started speaking in the telephonic communication. For example if a user of the transcript clicks on a tag associated with the word budget the audio recording or its associated application may be instructed to play the audio recording starting at the point where the speaker of that instance of the word budget began talking before the speaker spoke that particular instance of the word budget in the telephonic communication.

In some embodiments network device may detect specific words or commands and take actions based on the detection. In one embodiment a command may be sent to network device during the telephonic communication that instructs network device to insert an indicator into the transcript. User may send a tone to network device or to an intermediate device that translates the tone into a command that instructs network device to mark a portion of the text in a certain manner. Network device may be instructed to add highlighting to a portion of the transcript. Alternatively network device may be instructed to add text markings or other indicators to the transcript. For example user may be given an action item during a conference call and may press 1 to generate an instruction to network device to mark the action item in the transcript. Network device may then mark a portion of the transcript such as highlighting the text associated with the last 30 seconds of the telephonic communication before receiving the instruction. Alternatively network device may insert the words ACTION ITEM into the transcript in a manner that makes locating the action item within the transcript easier.

In another embodiment network device may detect certain words or sounds within the telephonic communication and responsive to detecting the certain words or sounds insert an indicator into the transcript. For example network device may detect the words action item when said by a participant in the telephonic communication and mark the text associated with a period of time before and or after the detection of the words action item . In yet another alternative network device may be instructed through an interface such as a software application or a web page to mark certain portions of the transcribed telephonic communication. All other means and methods of instructing network device to mark a portion of a transcript and any markings indicia highlighting or any other means or methods of identifying a portion of a transcript may be used. All such means and methods are contemplated as within the scope of the present disclosure.

In other embodiments actions may be taken to communicate a portion or the entirety of the transcript to one or more users or devices. In one embodiment network device may detect specific words or commands and create a text message or email message and transmit the message to a user. Network device may include in the message a portion of the transcribed telephonic communication. For example after detecting a voice tone or other form of command or after receiving a command through an interface network device may include in a message the transcribed portions of the telephonic communication that correspond to time periods of the telephonic communication before during and or after the command was detected or received. The time periods may be predetermined and configured by an administrator user or device. Alternatively a specification of the time period to be captured in the transcript portion included in the message may be specified by the user or device issuing the command.

In another embodiment actions may be taken to communicate an audio portion or the entirety of the recorded telephonic communication to one or more users or devices as a voice message. Such a voice message may be sent to a participant in the telephonic communication or to another party who may be interested in the substance of the communication. Such a voice message may be sent to a telephony device such as a phone or voicemail box or may be attached to or otherwise included with a message such as an email or text message. In one embodiment network device may detect specific words or commands and create a clip of a recording of the telephonic transcript and transmit the clip to a user. Network device may include with the clip a description of telephonic communication such as a time date user names or other identifying information. For example after detecting a voice tone or other form of command or after receiving a command through an interface network device may transmit one more portions of the recorded telephonic communication that correspond to time periods of the telephonic communication before during and or after the command was detected or received. The time periods may be predetermined and configured by an administrator user or device. Alternatively a specification of the time period of the recorded telephonic communication to be captured may be specified by the user or device issuing the command. Other means and methods of determining the portion of the telephonic communication to be sent in a voice message are contemplated as within the scope of the present disclosure.

In another embodiment actions may be taken to add information to the transcript. In one alternative words may be detected by network device using voice or speech recognition technology and additional information may be added based on the detection of the words. In another embodiment a command may be received or detected by network device instructing network device collect and or provide additional information in the transcript about the word or words detected. For example an acronym may be detected such as IP and network device may integrate the meaning of the acronym into the transcript such as adding internet protocol following the transcription of IP . Alternatively after a user hears the acronym IP during the telephonic communication the user may issue a command through any of the means described herein instructing network device to provide the meaning of the acronym IP in the transcript.

Alternatively network device may add other information or links to information about detected words. For example if network device detects the word BigCo or is instructed to provide information about the word BigCo after it is detected in the telephonic communication network device may insert into the transcript in one embodiment at or near the word BigCo a hyperlink to BigCo s website a hyperlink to recent news stories about BigCo a listing of BigCo s most recent stock price a report generated by a participant about BigCo and or any other information that may be available. Any type of information or connection or link to such information may be provided.

In another embodiment network device may detect foreign language words and automatically provide a translation for such words. Alternatively network device may be instructed to provide a translation of such words by a user using any of the command methods and means described herein. For example network device may detect the words merci beaucoup or may be instructed to provide a translation of the words merci beaucoup after it is detected in the telephonic communication. Network device may insert into the transcript in one embodiment at or near the words merci beaucoup thank you very much .

In yet another embodiment the tone or emotional content of the words spoken may be detected and actions taken based on the detection. For example if a speaker is particularly happy sounding which may be determined using voice and or speech recognition technology network device may insert into the transcript in one embodiment at or near the happy sounding words an emoticon or other indicator of the happy emotion associated with the words. This additional information may be helpful to a reader of the transcript who was not present during the telephonic communication to get the full meaning of the words spoken.

In still another embodiment a picture or video of the speaker may be included in the transcript. Speakers may be identified in any number of ways including by a log in used to enter into the telephonic communication voice detection and identification or any other effective means. Network device may after identifying the speaker insert a picture of the speaker obtained from any available source. Alternatively as is more common the telephonic communication may also be a video communication with video available of one or more of the participants. Video clips of the speakers as they spoke the words in the transcript may be included with the transcript in one embodiment at or near the words spoken. Alternatively video of other participants in the telephonic communication may be included with the words spoken by a participant in one embodiment at or near the words spoken so that a user of transcript can see the reactions of the other participants as the words are spoken. The types of information and or the method of presenting the information may be configured by a user administrator or device and or may be specified in a command instructing network device to provide the information. All such means and methods are contemplated as within the scope of the present disclosure.

Transcript includes lines of text that represent a transcribed portion of a telephonic communication. Transcript may set out each speaker s words separately. Each speaker may be identified by a label such as label that identifies Speaker . The labels identifying speakers may also contain tags or links to audio portions of the telephonic communication as described above. Each word or selected words within the transcript may also contain links or tags to audio portions of the telephonic communication as described above.

Words within the telephonic communication may be detected and actions taken in response. Alternatively commands may be issued to an intelligent call transcript system instructing the system to take actions based on detected words. For example key words in this example comprising action item may be detected by an intelligent call transcript system. The intelligent call transcript system may responsive to this detection highlight lines that are proximate to key words . Key words may themselves be highlighted or otherwise identified. In addition to or instead of the highlighting the intelligent call transcript system may add a tag identifier or other indicator such as identifier to the transcript to identify the key words and or the words or content proximate to the key words. Any type of identifier tag or other means of making a portion of transcript stand out are contemplated as within the scope of the present disclosure.

In one embodiment an abridged version of a transcript may be generated with only selected text versions of portions of the telephonic communication present along with in one embodiment tags or other additional information. For example transcript may only contain the text associated with the portions of the telephonic communication that are associated with a key word or words such as action item . Other means and methods of producing an abridged transcript are contemplated as within the scope of the present disclosure.

In another embodiment other information may be included based on detected words or at the instruction of a user or device. Key word in this example comprising the word BigCo may be associated with a link that when activated connects the user to a web site news source or other construct that provides more information about key word or other subjects. Alternatively when key words are detected a link may be created that when activated generates a message such as an email or text message transmitting the portion of the transcript such as lines to a user or device. The detection of key words such as key word may also instruct intelligent call transcript system to insert additional information into the transcript such as additional information in this example comprising the stock price of BigCo stock. Any other useful information such as a translation of a detected foreign word may be provided.

In another embodiment acronyms may be expanded to provide their full meanings within the transcript. For example acronym in this example comprising the acronym DRM may be detected and additional information in this example comprising Digital Rights Management may be added to the transcript in one embodiment at or proximate to detected acronym or in another embodiment compiled with other acronyms to form a glossary of acronyms. Any other methods and means of detecting words or receiving instructions to take actions based on detected or transcribed words may be used as may any other means or methods of taking actions. All such means and methods are contemplated as within the scope of the present disclosure.

In some embodiments an intelligent call transcript system may transmit portions of a transcript to users upon instruction by a user or device or upon detection of one or more words or sounds. For example when key words are detected the intelligent call transcript system may generate message shown in . User may receive the message on mobile communications device and may view the message on display of mobile communications device . Message may be an email a text message or any other form of text content. Message may also include the name of the recipient an identifier of the sender and or requestor of the message a subject line and or any other information that may be available. Message may also include additional information provided by an intelligent call transcript system such as linked words . Linked words may include a link that when activated by user plays an audio clip of the portion of the telephonic communication captured in message plays video of one or more of the speakers connects user to a web page or other software construct that may contain additional information or provide any other information or connections. All such embodiments are contemplated as within the scope of the present disclosure.

If at block no event is detected at block it is determined whether the telephonic communication is ongoing. If so transcription is continued at block . The determination made at block may also include determining if an instruction command or event has been detected or received that instructs the intelligent call transcript system to stop transcribing the telephonic communication. If an event indicating that the intelligent call transcript system should stop transcribing is detected or if it is determined at block that the telephonic communication is not ongoing then the method is exited.

Returning to block if an event is detected that indicates to the intelligent call transcript system that an action should be taken the action is taken or initiated at block . The action may be any type of action as described herein such as translating a word or words expanding on an acronym adding identifiers links tags highlighting pictures emoticon and or video to the transcript transmitting an audio video or text portion of the transcript to a user terminating the telephonic communication and or any other type of action. All such actions are contemplated as within the scope of the present disclosure.

After initiating the action at block at block the determination is made as to whether the telephonic communication is ongoing. If so at block the transcription continues. If the telephonic communication has been terminated the method is exited.

In one embodiment the intelligent call transcript systems methods and features described above may be implemented on a user device such as mobile communications device or or wired communications device rather than or in addition to a network device such as network device . Alternatively network device may be a component or subsystem of a communications device such as mobile communications devices or or wired communications device . Thus the functions and features described herein may be performed on a communications device such as transcribing and or recording telephonic communications receiving commands and or instructions affecting the configuration and control of an intelligent call transcript system and transmitting and or receiving transcribed and or recorded telephonic communication data. All such embodiments and any embodiments combining wired and or mobile communications devices and network devices are contemplated as within the scope of the present disclosure.

Note also that any of the methods systems and means described herein may be used for any type of audible or audio data and with any technology. For example rather than telephonic communications the methods and means recited herein may be applied to any type of conversation such as those in a recorded medium or those recorded without the participation of the user requesting the recording. Note also that the intelligent call transcript system as described herein may be integrated into other telephony or communications related systems and devices such as a conference call system a wireless or wireline communications system or any other type of communications system or device. All such embodiments are contemplated as within the scope of the present disclosure.

Processor may be any type of circuitry that performs operations on behalf of wireless device . In one embodiment processor executes software i.e. computer readable instructions stored in a computer readable medium that may include functionality related to intelligent transcription of telephonic communications communicating with operating or interfacing with an intelligent call transcript system and or running software configured to operate communicate or interface with an intelligent call transcript system for example. User interface module may be any type or combination of hardware and or software that enables a user to operate and interact with wireless device and in one embodiment to interact with an intelligent call transcript system. For example user interface module may include a display physical and soft keys voice and or speech recognition software microphone speaker and the like. Wireless communication module may be any type or combination of hardware and or software that enables wireless device to communicate with for example network or any other type of wireless communications network. Memory enables wireless device to store information recorded and or transcribed telephonic communication and additional related data voice and or speech recognition software transcription software a web browser or the like. Memory may take any form such as internal random access memory RAM an SD card a microSD card and the like. Power supply may be a battery or other type of power input e.g. a charging cable that is connected to an electrical outlet etc. that is capable of powering wireless device .

Transcription module may be any type or combination of hardware and or software that enables wireless device to intelligently transcribe telephonic communications. In one embodiment processor may perform the functions of transcription module . In an alternative embodiment transcription module may be separate from processor .

The processor comprises a processing portion a memory portion and an input output portion . The processing portion memory portion and input output portion are coupled together coupling not shown in to allow communications between these portions. The input output portion is capable of providing and or receiving components commands and or instructions utilized to for example operate an intelligent call transcript system or any subsystem or component thereof.

The processor can be implemented as a client processor and or a server processor. In a basic configuration the processor may include at least one processing portion and memory portion . The memory portion can store any information utilized in conjunction with transmitting receiving and or processing intelligent transcription instructions or commands intelligent transcription applications telephonic communications transcripts of telephonic communication recorded telephonic communications etc. For example as described above the memory portion is capable of storing transcripts recorded telephonic communications and or software capable of operating an intelligent call transcript system. Depending upon the exact configuration and type of processor the memory portion can be volatile such as RAM non volatile such as ROM flash memory etc. or a combination thereof. The processor can have additional features functionality. For example the processor can include additional storage removable storage and or non removable storage including but not limited to magnetic or optical disks tape flash smart cards or a combination thereof. Computer storage media such as memory and storage elements and include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices universal serial bus USB compatible memory smart cards or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the processor . Any such computer storage media may be part of the processor .

The processor can also contain the communications connection s that allow the processor to communicate with other devices for example through network . Communications connection s is an example of communication media. Communication media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection as might be used with a land line telephone and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared cellular and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein includes both storage media and communication media. The processor also can have input device s such as keyboard keypad mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers printer etc. also can be included.

Network may comprise any appropriate telephony radio network or any other type of communications network wireline or wireless or any combination thereof. The following description sets forth some exemplary telephony radio networks such as the global system for mobile communications GSM and non limiting operating environments. The below described operating environments should be considered non exhaustive however and thus the below described network architectures merely show how IP cellular broadcast may be used with stationary and non stationary network structures and architectures. It can be appreciated however that intelligent call transcript systems such as those described herein can be incorporated with existing and or future alternative architectures for communication networks as well.

The GSM is one of the most widely utilized wireless access systems in today s fast growing communication environment. The GSM provides circuit switched data services to subscribers such as mobile telephone or computer users. The General Packet Radio Service GPRS which is an extension to GSM technology introduces packet switching to GSM networks. The GPRS uses a packet based wireless communication technology to transfer high and low speed data and signaling in an efficient manner. The GPRS attempts to optimize the use of network and radio resources thus enabling the cost effective and efficient use of GSM network resources for packet mode applications.

As one of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate the exemplary GSM GPRS environment and services described herein also can be extended to 3G services such as Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS Frequency Division Duplexing FDD and Time Division Duplexing TDD High Speed Packet Data Access HSPDA cdma2000 1x Evolution Data Optimized EVDO Code Division Multiple Access 2000 cdma2000 3x Time Division Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access TD SCDMA Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE International Mobile Telecommunications 2000 IMT 2000 Digital Enhanced Cordless Telecommunications DECT 4G Services such as Long Term Evolution LTE etc. as well as to other network services that become available in time. In this regard the systems and methods of an intelligent call transcript system can be applied independently of the method of data transport and do not depend on any particular network architecture or underlying protocols.

Generally there can be four different cell sizes in a GSM network referred to as macro micro pico and umbrella cells. The coverage area of each cell is different in different environments. Macro cells may be regarded as cells in which the base station antenna is installed in a mast or a building above average roof top level. Micro cells are cells whose antenna height is under average roof top level. Micro cells may be typically used in urban areas. Pico cells are small cells having a diameter of a few dozen meters. Pico cells may be used mainly indoors. On the other hand umbrella cells may be used to cover shadowed regions of smaller cells and fill in gaps in coverage between those cells.

A mobile switching center may be connected to a large number of base station controllers. At MSC for instance depending on the type of traffic the traffic may be separated in that voice may be sent to Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN through Gateway MSC GMSC and or data may be sent to SGSN which then sends the data traffic to GGSN for further forwarding.

When MSC receives call traffic for example from BSC it may send a query to a database hosted by SCP . The SCP may process the request and may issue a response to MSC so that it may continue call processing as appropriate.

The HLR may be a centralized database for users to register to the GPRS network. HLR may store static information about the subscribers such as the International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI subscribed services and a key for authenticating the subscriber. HLR may also store dynamic subscriber information such as the current location of the mobile subscriber. HLR may also serve to intercept and determine the validity of destination numbers in messages sent from a device such as mobile subscriber as described herein. Associated with HLR may be AuC . AuC may be a database that contains the algorithms for authenticating subscribers and may include the associated keys for encryption to safeguard the user input for authentication.

In the following depending on context the term mobile subscriber sometimes refers to the end user and sometimes to the actual portable device such as mobile communications devices or used by an end user of the mobile cellular service. When a mobile subscriber turns on his or her mobile device the mobile device may go through an attach process by which the mobile device attaches to an SGSN of the GPRS network. In when mobile subscriber initiates the attach process by turning on the network capabilities of the mobile device an attach request may be sent by mobile subscriber to SGSN . The SGSN queries another SGSN to which mobile subscriber was attached before for the identity of mobile subscriber . Upon receiving the identity of mobile subscriber from the other SGSN SGSN may request more information from mobile subscriber . This information may be used to authenticate mobile subscriber to SGSN by HLR . Once verified SGSN sends a location update to HLR indicating the change of location to a new SGSN in this case SGSN . HLR may notify the old SGSN to which mobile subscriber was attached before to cancel the location process for mobile subscriber . HLR may then notify SGSN that the location update has been performed. At this time SGSN sends an Attach Accept message to mobile subscriber which in turn sends an Attach Complete message to SGSN .

After attaching itself with the network mobile subscriber may then go through the authentication process. In the authentication process SGSN may send the authentication information to HLR which may send information back to SGSN based on the user profile that was part of the user s initial setup. The SGSN may then send a request for authentication and ciphering to mobile subscriber . The mobile subscriber may use an algorithm to send the user identification ID and password to SGSN . The SGSN may use the same algorithm and compares the result. If a match occurs SGSN authenticates mobile subscriber .

Next the mobile subscriber may establish a user session with the destination network corporate network by going through a Packet Data Protocol PDP activation process. Briefly in the process mobile subscriber may request access to the Access Point Name APN for example UPS.com and SGSN may receive the activation request from mobile subscriber . SGSN may then initiate a Domain Name Service DNS query to learn which GGSN node has access to the UPS.com APN. The DNS query may be sent to the DNS server within the core network such as DNS which may be provisioned to map to one or more GGSN nodes in the core network . Based on the APN the mapped GGSN can access the requested corporate network . The SGSN may then send to GGSN a Create Packet Data Protocol PDP Context Request message that contains necessary information. The GGSN may send a Create PDP Context Response message to SGSN which may then send an Activate PDP Context Accept message to mobile subscriber .

Once activated data packets of the call made by mobile subscriber may then go through radio access network core network and interconnect network in a particular fixed end system or Internet and firewall to reach corporate network .

Thus network elements that can invoke the functionality of intelligent call transcript systems and methods such as those described herein can include but are not limited to Gateway GPRS Support Node tables Fixed End System router tables firewall systems VPN tunnels and any number of other network elements as required by the particular digital network.

The GSM core network may also include a Mobile Switching Center MSC a Gateway Mobile Switching Center GMSC a Home Location Register HLR Visitor Location Register VLR an Authentication Center AuC and an Equipment Identity Register EIR . The MSC may perform a switching function for the network. The MSC may also perform other functions such as registration authentication location updating handovers and call routing. The GMSC may provide a gateway between the GSM network and other networks such as an Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN or Public Switched Telephone Networks PSTNs . Thus the GMSC provides interworking functionality with external networks.

The HLR is a database that may contain administrative information regarding each subscriber registered in a corresponding GSM network. Such information may also include call replay preferences for each subscriber. The HLR may also contain the current location of each MS. The VLR may be a database that contains selected administrative information from the HLR . The VLR may contain information necessary for call control and provision of subscribed services for each MS currently located in a geographical area controlled by the VLR. The VLR may also contain intelligent call transcription preferences for each subscriber. The HLR and the VLR together with the MSC may provide the call routing and roaming capabilities of GSM as well as intelligent call transcription functionality. The AuC may provide the parameters needed for authentication and encryption functions. Such parameters allow verification of a subscriber s identity. The EIR may store security sensitive information about the mobile equipment.

A Short Message Service Center SMSC allows one to one short message service SMS or multimedia message service MMS messages to be sent to from the MS . A Push Proxy Gateway PPG is used to push i.e. send without a synchronous request content to the MS . The PPG acts as a proxy between wired and wireless networks to facilitate pushing of data to the MS . A Short Message Peer to Peer SMPP protocol router may be provided to convert SMS based SMPP messages to cell broadcast messages. SMPP is a protocol for exchanging SMS messages between SMS peer entities such as short message service centers. The SMPP protocol is often used to allow third parties e.g. content suppliers such as news organizations to submit bulk messages.

To gain access to GSM services such as voice data short message service SMS and multimedia message service MMS the MS may first register with the network to indicate its current location by performing a location update and IMSI attach procedure. The MS may send a location update including its current location information to the MSC VLR via the BTS and the BSC . The location information may then be sent to the MS s HLR. The HLR may be updated with the location information received from the MSC VLR. The location update may also be performed when the MS moves to a new location area. Typically the location update may be periodically performed to update the database as location updating events occur.

The GPRS network may be logically implemented on the GSM core network architecture by introducing two packet switching network nodes a serving GPRS support node SGSN a cell broadcast and a Gateway GPRS support node GGSN . The SGSN may be at the same hierarchical level as the MSC in the GSM network. The SGSN may control the connection between the GPRS network and the MS . The SGSN may also keep track of individual MS s locations and security functions and access controls.

A Cell Broadcast Center CBC may communicate cell broadcast messages that are typically delivered to multiple users in a specified area. Cell Broadcast is one to many geographically focused service. It enables messages to be communicated to multiple mobile telephone customers who are located within a given part of its network coverage area at the time the message is broadcast.

The GGSN may provide a gateway between the GPRS network and a public packet network PDN or other IP networks . That is the GGSN may provide interworking functionality with external networks and set up a logical link to the MS through the SGSN. When packet switched data leaves the GPRS network it may be transferred to an external TCP IP network such as an X.25 network or the Internet. In order to access GPRS services the MS first attaches itself to the GPRS network by performing an attach procedure. The MS then activates a packet data protocol PDP context thus activating a packet communication session between the MS the SGSN and the GGSN.

In a GSM GPRS network GPRS services and GSM services may be used in parallel. The MS may operate in one three classes class A class B and class C. A class A MS may attach to the network for both GPRS services and GSM services simultaneously. A class A MS may also support simultaneous operation of GPRS services and GSM services. For example class A mobiles may receive GSM voice data SMS calls and GPRS data calls at the same time.

A class B MS may attach to the network for both GPRS services and GSM services simultaneously. However a class B MS does not support simultaneous operation of the GPRS services and GSM services. That is a class B MS can only use one of the two services at a given time.

A class C MS can attach for only one of the GPRS services and GSM services at a time. Simultaneous attachment and operation of GPRS services and GSM services is not possible with a class C MS.

A GPRS network may be designed to operate in three network operation modes NOM1 NOM2 and NOM3 . A network operation mode of a GPRS network may be indicated by a parameter in system information messages transmitted within a cell. The system information messages may direct a MS where to listen for paging messages and how to signal towards the network. The network operation mode represents the capabilities of the GPRS network. In a NOM1 network a MS can receive pages from a circuit switched domain voice call when engaged in a data call. The MS can suspend the data call or take both simultaneously depending on the ability of the MS. In a NOM2 network a MS may not receive pages from a circuit switched domain when engaged in a data call since the MS is receiving data and is not listening to a paging channel. In a NOM3 network a MS can monitor pages for a circuit switched network while receiving data and vice versa.

IP multimedia network was introduced with 3GPP Release 5 and may include an IP multimedia subsystem IMS to provide rich multimedia services to end users. IP multimedia network may be a component of network or may connect to network . A representative set of the network entities within the IMS are a call session control function CSCF a media gateway control function MGCF a media gateway MGW and a master subscriber database called a home subscriber server HSS . The HSS may be common to the GSM core network the GPRS network as well as the IP multimedia network .

The IP multimedia system may be built around the call session control function of which there are three types an interrogating CSCF I CSCF a proxy CSCF P CSCF and a serving CSCF S CSCF . The P CSCF is the MS s first point of contact with the IMS . The P CSCF may forward session initiation protocol SIP messages received from the MS to an SIP server in a home network and vice versa of the MS. The P CSCF may also modify an outgoing request according to a set of rules defined by the network operator for example address analysis and potential modification .

The I CSCF forms an entrance to a home network and hides the inner topology of the home network from other networks and provides flexibility for selecting an S CSCF. The I CSCF may contact a subscriber location function SLF to determine which HSS to use for the particular subscriber if multiple HSSs are present. The S CSCF may perform the session control services for the MS . This includes routing originating sessions to external networks and routing terminating sessions to visited networks. The S CSCF may also decide whether an application server AS is required to receive information on an incoming SIP session request to ensure appropriate service handling. This decision is based on information received from the HSS or other sources such as an application server . The AS may also communicate to a location server e.g. a Gateway Mobile Location Center GMLC that provides a position e.g. latitude longitude coordinates of the MS .

The HSS may contain a subscriber profile including intelligent call transcription preferences and keep track of which core network node is currently handling the subscriber. It may also support subscriber authentication and authorization functions AAA . In networks with more than one HSS a subscriber location function provides information on the HSS that contains the profile of a given subscriber.

The MGCF may provide interworking functionality between SIP session control signaling from the IMS and ISUP BICC call control signaling from the external GSTN networks not shown. It may also control the media gateway MGW that provides user plane interworking functionality e.g. converting between AMR and PCM coded voice. The MGW may also communicate with other IP multimedia networks .

Push to Talk over Cellular PoC capable mobile telephones may register with the wireless network when the telephones are in a predefined area e.g. job site etc. When the mobile telephones leave the area they may register with the network in their new location as being outside the predefined area. This registration however does not indicate the actual physical location of the mobile telephones outside the pre defined area.

While example embodiments of intelligent call transcript systems and methods such as those described herein have been described in connection with various communications devices and computing devices processors the underlying concepts can be applied to any communications or computing device processor or system capable of implementing intelligent call transcript systems and methods described. The various techniques described herein can be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatuses for intelligent call transcript systems and methods or certain aspects or portions thereof can take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for an intelligent call transcript system. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device will generally include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. The program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. The language can be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

The methods and systems for intelligent call transcription as described herein can also be practiced via communications embodied in the form of program code that is transmitted over some transmission medium such as over electrical wiring or cabling through fiber optics or via any other form of transmission wherein when the program code is received and loaded into and executed by a machine such as an EPROM a gate array a programmable logic device PLD a client computer or the like the machine becomes an apparatus for an intelligent call transcript system. When implemented on a general purpose processor the program code combines with the processor to provide a unique apparatus that operates to invoke the functionality of an intelligent call transcript system. Additionally any storage techniques used in connection with an intelligent call transcript system can invariably be a combination of hardware and software.

While the intelligent call transcript systems and methods have been described in connection with the various embodiments of the various figures it is to be understood that other similar embodiments can be used or modifications and additions can be made to the described embodiments for performing the same functions of an intelligent call transcript system without deviating from the described systems and methods. For example one skilled in the art will recognize that an intelligent call transcript system as described in the present application may apply to any environment whether wired or wireless and may be applied to any number of such devices connected via one or more communications networks and interacting across such networks. Therefore intelligent call transcript systems such as those described herein should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

