---

title: Selective ligands for the dopamine 3 (D) receptor and methods of using the same
abstract: 

substituted with one or two halogen(s) or OCalkyl.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08486981&OS=08486981&RS=08486981
owner: University of Kansas
number: 08486981
owner_city: Lawrence
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120228
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 450 885 filed Mar. 9 2011 incorporated herein in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. R01DA020669 awarded by the National Institute of Drug Abuse National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to ligands for the dopamine 3 D receptor and to therapeutic methods of treating conditions and diseases wherein modulation of the Dreceptor provides a benefit.

Dopamine DA is a neurotransmitter that plays an essential role in normal brain functions. As a chemical messenger dopamine is similar to adrenaline. In the brain dopamine is synthesized in the pre synaptic neurons and released into the space between the pre synaptic and post synaptic neurons.

Dopamine affects brain processes that control movement emotional response and ability to experience pleasure and pain. Therefore the regulation of dopamine plays an important role in mental and physical health. Neurons containing dopamine are clustered in the midbrain area called the substantia nigra. Abnormal dopamine signaling in the brain has been implicated in a substantial number of pathological conditions including drug e.g. cocaine abuse depression anxiety schizophrenia Tourette s syndrome eating disorders alcoholism chronic pain obsessive compulsive disorders restless leg syndrome Parkinson s Disease and the like.

Dopamine molecules bind to and activate dopamine receptors on the post synaptic neurons. Dopamine molecules then are transported through the dopamine transporter protein DAT back into the pre synaptic neurons where they are metabolized by monoamine oxidase MAO . In conditions such as cocaine abuse cocaine binds to the dopamine transporter and blocks the normal flow of dopamine molecules. Excess concentrations of dopamine cause over activation of dopamine receptors. In other conditions such as Parkinson s Disease lack of sufficient dopamine receptors in the brain causes insufficient activation of dopamine receptors.

Dopaminergic neurotransmission is mediated by five dopamine receptors D D which can be grouped into the D like Dand D and D like D D and D receptor subtypes. The dopamine 3 D subtype receptor has been implicated as an important target for agents currently used clinically for the treatment of schizophrenia Parkinson s disease depression and other neurological diseases.Studies have also provided strong evidence that potent and selective Dligands may have a therapeutic potential as pharmacotherapies for the treatment of drug abuse.Therefore considerable effort has been devoted to the discovery and development of potent and selective Dligands.

A number of representative potent and selective Dligands antagonists partial agonists and full agonists are shown in . These Dligands bind to the Dreceptor with a very high affinity Kvalues of 1.0 nM and display a selectivity of 100 500 times over the Dreceptor and greater than 1 000 over the D like receptors when evaluated in in vitro binding assays either using cloned human dopamine receptors or rat brain.

SB 277011A 1 is a potent and selective Dantagonistand has been used extensively in animals to investigate the role of the Dreceptor in drug abuse.One disadvantage of SB 277011A is that relatively high doses are needed to produce an in vivo effect suggesting a moderate central nervous system CNS penetration. SB 414796 2 is a potent and selective Dantagonist and has an excellent bioavailability in the rat and a good CNS penetration.However compound 2 did not advance into clinical development because of its inhibition of p450 and its potential cardiotoxicity due to a strong binding to hERG potassium channel.Very recently compound 3 was designed as a highly potent and selective Dantagonist.Compound 3 has an excellent oral bioavailability and good CNS penetration. Importantly compound 3 only shows weak inhibition on all the P450 isoforms and a large selectivity window with respect to their affinity at the hERG channel overcoming the major issues associated with compound 2. BP 897 4 initially was described as a potent Dpartial agonist with a modest selectivity of less than 100 times over D but subsequent studies have shown that compound 4 may behave as an Dantagonist.NGB 2904 5 is a potent and selective Dantagonistand has been extensively used in vivo evaluations despite its poor aqueous solubility.In order to improve Dselectivity and water solubility a large number of new analogues have been designed and synthesized including compounds 6 7and 8. Compound 8 is a potent Dantagonist and displays a selectivity of greater than 400 fold over Din in vitro binding assays.Compound 8 has a much improved solubility compared to compound 5.

One challenge in the design and development of Dligands has been a lack of the correlation between the intrinsic in vitro activity and in vivo activity for many reported Dligands. This was due in part to a lack of well validated in vivo functional assays for the Dand Dreceptors. To this end yawning and hypothermia functional assays for the Dand Dreceptors in the rat have been validated.Data clearly show that while Dagonist activity induces yawning in the rat Dagonist activity inhibits yawning induced by the Dagonist activity.Furthermore while Dagonist activity decreases the body core temperature in the rat Dagonist activity has no effect on the body core temperature.

A number of known Dligands were evaluated in the yawning and hypothermia assays. It was found that many of the potent and selective Dligands based upon in vitro data such as compounds 1 4 5 and 9 have a narrow range of selectivity in vivo at the Dreceptor over the Dreceptor typically less than 10 fold.This narrow range of in vivo selectivity for the Dreceptor over the Dreceptor makes the interpretation of in vivo behavioral data for many known Dligands complicated and highlights the need for highly potent Dligands with a large in vivo selectivity for Dover D.

Many reported potent and selective Dligands based upon their in vitro data have very poor aqueous solubility which contributes to their low in vivo activity and selectivity.To address the solubility issue a series of new compounds based upon the core structure of pramipexole compound 9 a highly potent Dfull agonist with excellent aqueous solubility but a modest selectivity for the Dreceptor over the Dreceptor were designed and synthesized.Another consideration for using pramipexole as the basic core structure is that pramipexole is an FDA approved drug for the treatment of Parkinson s disease and restless leg syndrome and has an excellent safety and pharmacological properties in the human.

Accordingly a need still exists in the art for potent and selective Dligands having physical and pharmacological properties that permit use of the ligands in therapeutic applications. The present invention provides ligands designed not only to selectively bind to the Dreceptor subtype in in vitro binding assays but also modulate e.g. agonism and or antagonism the Dreceptor with high selectivity in vivo functional assays in the rat.

The present invention is directed to potent and selective ligands for Dreceptors and to methods of using the ligands in a therapeutic treatment of conditions and diseases wherein modulation of the Dreceptors provides a benefit. More particularly the present invention is directed to compounds having a structural formula I and II 

In one embodiment the present invention provides a method of treating a condition or disease by administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of structural formula I or II to an individual in need thereof. The disease or condition of interest is treatable by modulation of Dreceptors such as for example drug abuse Parkinson s disease restless leg syndrome schizophrenia and depression.

Another embodiment of the present invention is to provide a composition comprising a Dreceptor ligand of structural formula I or II and an excipient and or pharmaceutically acceptable carrier useful in treating diseases or conditions wherein modulation of Dreceptors provides a benefit i.e. a disease or condition of interest.

Another embodiment of the present invention is to utilize a composition comprising a compound of structural formula I or II and a second therapeutically active agent in a method of treating an individual for a disease or condition wherein modulation of Dreceptors provides a benefit.

In a further embodiment the invention provides for use of a composition comprising a Dligand of structural formula I or II and an optional second therapeutic agent for the manufacture of a medicament for treating a disease or condition of interest e.g. drug abuse Parkinson s disease restless leg syndrome schizophrenia and depression.

Still another embodiment of the present invention is to provide a kit for human pharmaceutical use comprising a a container b1 a packaged composition comprising a Dligand of structural formula I or II and optionally b2 a packaged composition comprising a second therapeutic agent useful in the treatment of a disease or condition of interest and c a package insert containing directions for use of the composition or compositions administered simultaneously or sequentially in the treatment of the disease or condition.

The Dligand of structural formula I or II and the second therapeutic agent can be administered together as a single unit dose or separately as multi unit doses wherein the Dligand of structural formula I or II is administered before the second therapeutic agent or vice versa. It is envisioned that one or more dose of the Dligand of structural formula I or II or one and or more dose of the second therapeutic agent can be administered.

In one embodiment the Dligand of structural formula I or II and second therapeutic agent are administered simultaneously. In related embodiments the Dligand of structural formula I or II and second therapeutic agent are administered from a single composition or from separate compositions. In a further embodiment the Dligand of structural formula I or II and second therapeutic agent are administered sequentially. The Dligand of structural formula I or II as used in the present invention can be administered in an amount of about 0.005 to about 500 milligrams per dose about 0.05 to about 250 milligrams per dose or about 0.5 to about 100 milligrams per dose.

In one preferred embodiment the present invention provides a method of treating a subject having a disease addiction or other pathological condition e.g. cocaine abuse depression anxiety an eating disorder alcoholism chronic pain obsessive compulsive disorder schizophrenia restless leg syndrome RLS Parkinson s disease and the like comprising administering to the subject a therapeutic dose of a compound of structural formula I or II or a composition containing the compound.

These and other aspects and features of the present invention will become apparent from the following drawings and detailed description of the preferred embodiments.

The present invention is described in connection with preferred embodiments. However it should be appreciated that the invention is not limited to the disclosed embodiments. It is understood that given the description of the embodiments of the invention herein various modifications can be made by a person skilled in the art. Such modifications are encompassed by the claims below.

As used herein the terms treat treating treatment and the like refer to eliminating reducing or ameliorating a disease or condition and or symptoms associated therewith. Although not precluded treating a disease or condition does not require that the disease condition or symptoms associated therewith be completely eliminated. As used herein the terms treat treating treatment and the like may include prophylactic treatment which refers to reducing the probability of redeveloping a disease or condition or of a recurrence of a previously controlled disease or condition in a subject who does not have but is at risk of or is susceptible to redeveloping a disease or condition or a recurrence of the disease or condition. The term treat and synonyms contemplate administering a compound of the invention to an individual in need of such treatment.

Within the meaning of the invention treatment also includes relapse prophylaxis or phase prophylaxis as well as the treatment of acute or chronic signs symptoms and or malfunctions. The treatment can be orientated symptomatically for example to suppress symptoms. It can be effected over a short period be oriented over a medium term or can be a long term treatment for example within the context of a maintenance therapy.

The term therapeutically effective amount or effective dose as used herein refers to an amount of the active ingredient s that is are sufficient when administered by a method of the invention to efficaciously deliver the agents for the treatment of condition or disease of interest to an individual in need thereof.

The term container means any receptacle and closure therefor suitable for storing shipping dispensing and or handling a pharmaceutical product.

The term insert means information accompanying a pharmaceutical product that provides a description of how to administer the product along with the safety and efficacy data required to allow the physician pharmacist and patient to make an informed decision regarding use of the product. The package insert generally is regarded as the label for a pharmaceutical product.

 Concurrent administration administered in combination simultaneous administration and similar phrases mean that a composition comprising two or more agents are administered concurrently to the subject being treated. By concurrently it is meant that each agent is administered simultaneously or sequentially in any order at different points in time. However if not administered simultaneously they are in one aspect administered sufficiently closely in time so as to provide the desired treatment effect of the combination of agents. Suitable dosing intervals and dosing order of the agents will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art. It also is contemplated that two or more agents are administered from separate compositions and in one aspect one composition is administered prior to administration of the other composition. Prior administration refers to administration of the agents within one day 24 hours . It is further contemplated that one agent is administered subsequent to administration of the other agent. Subsequent administration is meant to describe administration from 30 minutes of the second agent up to one day 24 hours after administration of the first agent. Within 24 hours may include administration after 30 minutes 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 16 20 or 24 hours.

The use of the terms a an the and similar referents in the context of describing the invention especially in the context of the claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated. Recitation of ranges of values herein merely are intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illustrate the invention and is not a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

The present invention is directed to potent and selective ligands for the Dreceptor ligand having a structural formula I or II 

A compound of structural formula II can contain one or two halogen one or two OCalkyl or one halogen and one OCalkyl.

In particular the compounds of structural formula I and II are used in methods of treating a disease or condition wherein modulation of the Dreceptor provides a benefit for example drug e.g. cocaine abuse depression anxiety schizophrenia Tourette s syndrome eating disorders alcoholism restless leg syndrome Parkinson s disease obsessive compulsive disorder and chronic pain. The method comprises administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of structural formula I or II to an individual in need thereof. The present methods also encompass administering a second therapeutic agent to the individual in addition to the compound of structural formula I or II . The second therapeutic agent is selected from drugs known as useful in treating the disease or condition afflicting the individual in need thereof.

As used herein the term alkyl refers to straight chained and branched saturated hydrocarbon groups nonlimiting examples of which include methyl ethyl and straight chain and branched propyl butyl pentyl and hexyl groups.

As used herein the term Ccycloalkyl means a monocyclic aliphatic ring containing three to six carbon atoms.

Additionally salts hydrates and solvates of the compounds disclosed herein also are included in the present disclosure and can be used in the methods disclosed herein. For example an acid salt of a compound of structural formula I or II can be obtained by reacting the compound with a suitable organic or inorganic acid such as hydrogen chloride hydrogen bromide acetic acid perchloric acid and the like. Examples of such salts include but are not limited to hydrochlorides hydrobromides sulfates methanesulfonates nitrates maleates acetates citrates fumarates tartrates bisulfates phosphates besylates malates gluconates saccharates pamoates succinates benzoates and salts of amino acids such as glutamic acid.

In one embodiment the present invention discloses a method of treating an individual suffering from a disease or condition wherein modulation of the Dreceptor provides a benefit comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of structural formula I or II to an individual in need thereof.

The methods described herein relate to the use of a compound of structural formula I or II and an optional second therapeutic agent useful in the treatment of diseases and conditions wherein modulation of the Dreceptor provides a benefit. The method of the present invention can be accomplished by administering a compound of structural formula I or II as the neat compound or as a pharmaceutical composition. Administration of the pharmaceutical composition or neat compound of structural formula I or II can be performed during or after the onset of the disease or condition of interest. Typically the pharmaceutical compositions are sterile and contain no toxic carcinogenic or mutagenic compounds that would cause an adverse reaction when administered.

A compound of structural formula I or II also can be administered in conjunction with a second therapeutic agent useful in the treatment of a disease or condition wherein modulation of the Dreceptor provides a benefit. The second therapeutic agent is different from the compound of structural formula I and II . A compound of structural formula I or II and the second therapeutic agent can be administered simultaneously or sequentially. In addition the compound of structural formula I or II and second therapeutic agent can be administered from a single composition or two separate compositions. A compound of structural formula I or II and the optional second therapeutic agent can be administered simultaneously or sequentially to achieve the desired effect.

The second therapeutic agent is administered in an amount to provide its desired therapeutic effect. The effective dosage range for each second therapeutic agent is known in the art and the second therapeutic agent is administered to an individual in need thereof within such established ranges.

The present invention therefore is directed to compositions and methods of treating diseases or conditions wherein modulation of the Dreceptor provides a benefit. The present invention also is directed to pharmaceutical compositions comprising a compound of structural formula I and or II and a second therapeutic agent useful in the treatment of diseases and conditions wherein modulation of the Dreceptor provides a benefit. Further provided are kits comprising a compound of structural formula I or II and optionally a second therapeutic agent useful in the treatment of diseases and conditions wherein modulation of the Dreceptor provides a benefit packaged separately or together and an insert having instructions for using these active agents.

As demonstrated below compounds of structural formula I and II are a potent and selective ligands for the Dreceptor and can be used in treating diseases and conditions like drug abuse and restless leg syndrome where modulation of the Dreceptor provides a benefit.

A compound of structural formula I or II used in a method of the present invention can be administered in an amount of about 0.005 to about 500 milligrams per dose about 0.05 to about 250 milligrams per dose or about 0.5 to about 100 milligrams per dose. For example a compound of structural formula I or II can be administered per dose in an amount of about 0.005 0.05 0.5 5 10 20 30 40 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 or 500 milligrams including all doses between 0.005 and 500 milligrams.

A compound of structural formula I or II can be formulated in suitable excipients for oral administration or for parenteral administration. Such excipients are well known in the art. A compound of structural formula I or II typically is present in such a composition in an amount of about 0.1 to about 75 by weight of the composition.

A compound of structural formula I or II and the second therapeutic agent can be administered together as a single unit dose or separately as multi unit doses wherein the compound of structural formula I or II is administered before the second therapeutic agent or vice versa. One or more dose of the compound of structural formula I or II and or one or more dose of the second therapeutic agent can be administered.

The compounds of structural formula I or II therefore can be used in conjunction with one or more second therapeutic agents for example but not limited to antipsychotic agents e.g. clozapine olanzapine quetiapine risperidone ziprasidone haloperidol and aripiprazole antidepressant agents such as tricyclic antidepressants e.g. amitriptyline dothiepin doxepin trimipramine butriptyline clomipramine desipramine imipramine iprindole lofepramine nortriptyline and protriptyline monoamine oxidase inhibitors e.g. isocarboxazid phenelzine and tranylcyclopramine 5 HT reuptake inhibitors e.g. fluvoxamine sertraline fluoxetine and paroxetine serotonin 1 B antagonists e.g. elzasonan serotonin 2A antagonists e.g. eplivanserin and MDL 100907 histamine 3 antagonists or agonists e.g. cipralisant ABT239 TISQ and GSK 189254A and or with antiparkinsonian agents such as dopaminergic antiparkinsonian agents e.g. levodopa preferably in combination with a peripheral decarboxylase inhibitor e.g. benserazide or carbidopa or with a dopamine agonist e.g. bromocriptine lysuride and pergolide .

The compounds of structural formula I and II are highly selective dopamine Dreceptor ligands which because of their low affinity for other receptors such as dopamine Dand D give rise to fewer side effects than compounds that are non selective D Dligands agonists partial agonists antagonists or inverse agonists . Compounds of the present invention can be selective agonists partial agonists antagonists or inverse agonists for the Dreceptor over other dopamine receptors.

The present invention provides a selective Dligand as exemplified by compounds of structural formula I and II for the treatment of a variety of diseases and conditions in which selective modulation of the Dreceptor has a beneficial effect. Preferably a compound of structural formula I or II is selective for the Dreceptor over the Dreceptor by a factor of at least 250 and over the Dreceptor by a factor of at least 10 000.

Conditions and diseases of the central nervous system CNS are understood as meaning disorders which affect the spinal cord and in particular the brain. Within the meaning of the present invention the term disease or condition denote disturbances and or anomalies that as a rule are regarded as being pathological conditions or functions and that can manifest themselves in the form of particular signs symptoms and or malfunctions. The treatment methods according to the invention can be directed toward individual disorders i.e. anomalies or pathological conditions but it also is possible to treat several anomalies that may be causatively linked to each other to be combined into patterns i.e. syndromes.

The diseases and conditions that can be treated in accordance to the invention include for example psychiatric and neurological disturbances. These diseases and conditions include for example organic disturbances including symptomatic disturbances such as psychoses of the acute exogenous reaction type or attendant psychoses or organic or exogenous cause e.g. in association with metabolic disturbances infections and endocrinopathologies endogenous psychoses such as schizophrenia and schizotype and delusional disturbances affective disturbances such as depressions mania and or manic depressive conditions and also mixed forms of the above described diseases and conditions neurotic and somatoform disturbances and disturbances in association with stress dissociative disturbances e.g. loss of consciousness clouding of consciousness double consciousness and personality disturbances disturbances in attention and waking and or sleeping behavior such as behavioral disturbances and emotional disturbances whose onset lies in childhood and youth e.g. hyperactivity in children intellectual deficits in particular attention disturbances attention deficit disorders memory disturbances and cognitive disturbances e.g. impaired learning and memory impaired cognitive function dementia narcolepsy and sleep disturbances e.g. restless leg syndrome developmental disturbances anxiety states delirium sex life disturbances e.g. impotence in men eating disturbances e.g. anorexia or bulimia addiction and other unspecified disturbances.

The disorders which can be treated in accordance with the invention also include Parkinson s disease and epilepsy and in particular affective disturbances connected thereto.

The addiction diseases include psychic disorders and behavioral disturbances which are caused by the abuse of psychotropic substances such as pharmaceuticals or narcotics and also other addiction diseases such as addiction to gaming impulse control disorders not elsewhere classified . Examples of addictive substances are opioids e.g. morphine heroin and codeine cocaine nicotine alcohol substances which interact with GABA chloride channel complex sedatives hypnotics and tranquilizers for example benzodiazepines LSD cannabinoids psychomotor stimulants such as 3 4 methylenedioxy N methylamphetamine i.e. ecstasy amphetamine and amphetamine like substances such as methylphenidate and other stimulants including caffeine. Addictive substances of particular consideration are opioids cocaine amphetamine or amphetamine like substances nicotine and alcohol.

With regard to the treatment of addiction diseases particular preference is given to compounds of structural formula I and II that do not possess a psychotropic effect. This can be observed in a test using rats which after having been administered a compound of the invention reduce their self administration of a psychotropic substance for example cocaine.

According to another embodiment of the present invention the compounds of structural formula I and II are suitable for treating conditions and diseases whose cause can be at least partially attributed to an anomalous activity of dopamine Dreceptors.

According to another embodiment of the present invention the treatment is directed toward conditions and diseases that can be influenced by the binding of exogenously administered ligands to dopamine Dreceptors.

The diseases and conditions that can be treated with a compounds of the present invention frequently are characterized by progressive development i.e. the above described conditions change over the course of time and as a rule the severity increases and conditions possibly can merge into one another or other conditions appear in addition to those which already exist can appear.

The compounds according to the invention can be used to treat a large number of signs symptoms and or malfunctions that are connected to disease and condition of the central nervous system and in particular the abovementioned diseases and conditions. These signs symptoms and or malfunctions include for example a disturbed relationship to reality lack of insight and ability to meet customary social norms or the demands made by life changes in temperament changes in individual drives such as hunger sleep and thirst for example and mood disturbances in the ability to observe and combine changes in personality in particular emotional lability hallucinations ego disturbances distractedness ambivalence autism depersonalization and false perceptions delusional ideas chanting speech lack of synkinesia short step gait flexed posture of trunk and limbs tremor poverty of facial expression monotonous speech depressions apathy impeded spontaneity and decisiveness impoverished association ability anxiety nervous agitation stammering social phobia panic disturbances withdrawal symptoms in association with dependency maniform syndromes states of excitation and confusion dysphoria dyskinetic syndromes and tic disorders e.g. Huntington s chorea and Gilles de la Tourette s syndrome vertigo syndromes e.g. peripheral positional rotational and oscillatory vertigo melancholia hysteria hypochondria and the like.

Therefore compounds of the present invention are suitable for treatment of diseases of the central nervous system in particular for treating affective disorders neurotic disturbances stress disturbances and somatoform disturbances and psychoses and in particular for treating schizophrenia and depression. Because of their high selectivity with regard to the Dreceptor the compounds of structural formula I and II also are suitable for treating disturbances of kidney function which are caused by diabetes mellitus see WO 00 67847 incorporated herein by reference and especially diabetic nephropathy.

In the present method a therapeutically effective amount of one or more compound I or II as a rule formulated in accordance with pharmaceutical practice is administered to a human being in need thereof. Whether such a treatment is indicated depends on the individual case and is subject to medical assessment diagnosis that takes into consideration signs symptoms and or malfunctions which are present the risks of developing particular signs symptoms and or malfunctions and other factors.

A compound of structural formula I or II can be administered by any suitable route for example by oral buccal inhalation sublingual rectal vaginal intracisternal or intrathecal through lumbar puncture transurethral nasal percutaneous i.e. transdermal or parenteral including intravenous intramuscular subcutaneous intracoronary intradermal intramammary intraperitoneal intraarticular intrathecal retrobulbar intrapulmonary injection and or surgical implantation at a particular site administration. Parenteral administration can be accomplished using a needle and syringe or using a high pressure technique.

The pharmaceutical compositions include those wherein a compound of structural formula I or II is administered in an effective amount to achieve its intended purpose. Determination of a therapeutically effective amount is well within the capability of those skilled in the art especially in light of the detailed disclosure provided herein.

The exact formulation route of administration and dosage is determined by an individual physician in view of the diagnosed condition or disease. Dosage amount and interval can be adjusted individually to provide levels of a compound of structural formula I or II that is sufficient to maintain therapeutic effects. The amount of pharmaceutical composition administered is dependent on the subject being treated on the subject s weight the severity of the affliction the manner of administration and the judgment of the prescribing physician.

Specifically for administration to a human in the treatment of a disease or condition oral dosages of a compound of structural formula I or II individually generally are about 0.005 to about 500 milligrams daily for an average adult patient 70 kg typically one dose per day or divided into two to three doses per day. Thus for a typical adult patient individual doses contain about 0.005 to about 500 milligrams of compound I or II in a suitable pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle or carrier for administration in single or multiple doses once or several times per day. Dosages for intravenous buccal or sublingual administration typically are about 0.005 to about 250 milligrams kg per single dose as required. In practice the physician determines the actual dosing regimen that is most suitable for an individual patient and the dosage varies with the age weight and response of the particular patient. The above dosages are exemplary of the average case but there can be individual instances in which higher or lower dosages are merited and such are within the scope of this invention.

The compounds of the present invention can be administered alone or in admixture with a pharmaceutical carrier selected with regard to the intended route of administration and standard pharmaceutical practice. Pharmaceutical compositions for use in accordance with the present invention thus can be formulated in a conventional manner using one or more physiologically acceptable carriers comprising excipients and auxiliaries that facilitate processing of the compounds of structural formula I and II into preparations that can be used pharmaceutically.

These pharmaceutical compositions can be manufactured in a conventional manner e.g. by conventional mixing dissolving granulating dragee making emulsifying encapsulating entrapping or lyophilizing processes. Proper formulation is dependent upon the route of administration chosen. When a therapeutically effective amount of the compound of structural formula I or II is administered orally the composition typically is in the form of a tablet capsule powder solution or elixir. When administered in tablet form the composition additionally can contain a solid carrier such as a gelatin or an adjuvant. The tablet capsule and powder contain about 0.1 to about 95 and preferably from about 1 to about 50 of a compound of structural formula I or II . When administered in liquid form a liquid carrier such as water petroleum or oils of animal or plant origin can be added. The liquid form of the composition can further contain physiological saline solution dextrose or other saccharide solutions or glycols. When administered in liquid form the composition contains about 0.1 to about 90 and preferably about 1 to about 50 by weight of a compound of structural formula I or II .

When a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of structural formula I or II is administered by intravenous cutaneous or subcutaneous injection the composition is in the form of a pyrogen free parenterally acceptable aqueous solution. The preparation of such parenterally acceptable solutions having due regard to pH isotonicity stability and the like is within the skill in the art. A preferred composition for intravenous cutaneous or subcutaneous injection typically contains an isotonic vehicle. A compound of structural formula I or II can be infused with other fluids over a 10 30 minute span or over several hours.

Compounds of structural formula I and II can be readily combined with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers well known in the art. Such carriers enable the active agents to be formulated as tablets pills dragees capsules liquids gels syrups slurries suspensions and the like for oral ingestion by a patient to be treated. Pharmaceutical preparations for oral use can be obtained by adding the compound of structural formula I or II to a solid excipient optionally grinding the resulting mixture and processing the mixture of granules after adding suitable auxiliaries if desired to obtain tablets or dragee cores. Suitable excipients include for example fillers and cellulose preparations. If desired disintegrating agents can be added.

A compound of structural formula I or II can be formulated for parenteral administration by injection e.g. by bolus injection or continuous infusion. Formulations for injection can be presented in unit dosage form e.g. in ampules or in multidose containers with an added preservative. The compositions can take such forms as suspensions solutions or emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles and can contain formulatory agents such as suspending stabilizing and or dispersing agents.

Pharmaceutical compositions for parenteral administration include aqueous solutions of the active agent in water soluble form. Additionally suspensions of a compound of structural formula I or II can be prepared as appropriate oily injection suspensions. Suitable lipophilic solvents or vehicles include fatty oils or synthetic fatty acid esters. Aqueous injection suspensions can contain substances which increase the viscosity of the suspension. Optionally the suspension also can contain suitable stabilizers or agents that increase the solubility of the compounds and allow for the preparation of highly concentrated solutions. Alternatively a present composition can be in powder form for constitution with a suitable vehicle e.g. sterile pyrogen free water before use.

A compound of structural formula I or II also can be formulated in rectal compositions such as suppositories or retention enemas e.g. containing conventional suppository bases. In addition to the formulations described previously a compound of structural formula I or II also can be formulated as a depot preparation. Such long acting formulations can be administered by implantation for example subcutaneously or intramuscularly or by intramuscular injection. Thus for example the compounds of structural formula I and II can be formulated with suitable polymeric or hydrophobic materials for example as an emulsion in an acceptable oil or ion exchange resins.

In particular the compounds of structural formula I and II can be administered orally buccally or sublingually in the form of tablets containing excipients such as starch or lactose or in capsules or ovules either alone or in admixture with excipients or in the form of elixirs or suspensions containing flavoring or coloring agents. Such liquid preparations can be prepared with pharmaceutically acceptable additives such as suspending agents. The compounds of structural formula I and II also can be injected parenterally for example intravenously intramuscularly subcutaneously or intracoronarily. For parenteral administration the endothelin antagonists are best used in the form of a sterile aqueous solution which can contain other substances for example salts or monosaccharides such as mannitol or glucose to make the solution isotonic with blood.

As an additional embodiment the present invention includes kits which comprise one or more compounds or compositions packaged in a manner that facilitates their use to practice methods of the invention. In one embodiment the kit includes a compound or composition described herein as useful for practice of a method e.g. a composition comprising a compound of structural formula I or II and an optional second therapeutic agent packaged in a container such as a sealed bottle or vessel with a label affixed to the container or included in the kit that describes use of the compound or composition to practice the method of the invention. Preferably the compound or composition is packaged in a unit dosage form. The kit further can include a device suitable for administering the composition according to the intended route of administration.

As discussed above although potent and selective dopamine Dreceptor ligands based upon in vitro binding data have been reported ligands that are highly active and selective in vivo at the Dreceptor are still lacking Several prior Dligands also possessed physical properties e.g. a low water solubility that hindered development as therapeutic agents.

In accordance with an important feature of the present invention compounds of structural formula I and II were synthesized and evaluated as ligands for the dopamine 3 D receptor. For example compound 38 described below has a Kvalue of 0.73 nM to Dand a selectivity of about 13 700 and about 500 fold over the D like and Dreceptors respectively. Compound 52 described below has a Kvalue of 0.38 nM to Dand a selectivity of about 46 000 and about 450 over the D like and Dreceptors respectively.

Solvents and reagents were obtained commercially and used without further purification. Reactions were monitored by TLC carried performed on 250 m E. Merck silica gel plates 60F 254 using UV light as a visualizing agent. E. Merck silica gel 60 particle size 15 40 m was used for flash column chromatography. NMR spectra were recorded on a Bruker Avance300 spectrometer 300 MHz . Chemical shifts 6 are reported as 6 values ppm downfield relative to TMS as an internal standard with multiplicities reported in the usual manner. Low resolution mass spectra were obtained from high resolution electrospray ionization mass spectra MS were run on a Micromass AutoSpec Ultima mass spectrometer. Elemental analysis EA was performed using a Perkin Elmer 2400 Series II Analyzer. HPLC analysis was performed on a Waters 2795 using a Waters SunFire C18 150 mm 4.6 mm column mobile phase flow 1.0 mL min gradient water with 0.1 TFA acetonitrile with 0.1 TFA 0 to about 50 and UV detection at 254 nm.

The synthesis of the present compounds is provided in Schemes 1 3. Basically pramipexole 9 was reacted with commercially available tert butyl trans 4 2 oxoethyl cyclohexylcarbamate to give intermediate 13. Intermediate 13 was treated with trifluoroacetic acid TFA to afford amine 14.

The synthesis of compounds 33 38 is straightforward and is provided in Scheme 2. Briefly compound 14 was condensed with the appropriate carboxylic acid RCOH to give compounds 33 38.

The synthesis of compounds 43 47 and 51 53 is straightforward and is provided in Scheme 3. Compound 14 was reacted with the appropriate sulfonyl chloride RSOCl in the presence of diisopropylethylamine DIPEA to give compounds 43 47 and 51 53.

Tert butyl trans 4 2 oxoethyl cyclohexylcarbamate 114 mg 0.47 mmol acetic acid HAc 57 mg 0.95 mmol and sodium triacetoxyborohydride NaBH OAc 200 mg 0.95 mmol were added to a solution of pramipexole 100 mg 0.47 mmol in dichloroethane 20 mL and the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature RT for 6 hr. The reaction was quenched with water and the pH was adjusted to 9 10 by addition of aqueous sodium carbonate solution. Then the mixture was extracted with dichloromethane DCM for 3 times. The organic lawyer was separated combined and evaporated. The residue was chromatographed SiO ethyl acetate methanol 95 5 to give compound 13 as a colorless oil 155 mg 75 .

TFA 2 mL was added to a solution of compound 13 in dichloromethane 10 mL and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 12 hr. Solvent and TFA were removed under vacuum and the residue was used directly for the next step without further purification.

Appropriate carboxylic acid 0.1 mmol EDCI 1 3 dimethylaminopropyl 3 ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride 19 mg 0.1 mmol HOBt 1 hydroxybenzotriazole 14 mg 0.1 mmol and diisopropylethylamine 52 mg 0.4 mmol were added to a suspension of 14 68 mg 0.1 mmol in dichloromethane 10 mL and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 6 hr. The reaction was quenched with water and the pH was adjusted to 9 10 by addition of aqueous sodium carbonate. The mixture was extracted with dichloromethane for 3 times. The organic lawyer was separated combined and evaporated. The residue was chromatographed SiO ethyl acetate methanol 95 5 to give compounds 33 38.

Trans N 4 2 s 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydrobenzo d thiazol 6 yl propyl amino ethylcyclohexyl 4 5 ethyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl benzamide 34 H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.09 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.84 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 6.27 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 5.29 s 2H 3.96 3.83 m 1H 3.04 2.94 m 3H 2.78 2.40 m 8H 2.18 1.62 m 6H 1.50 1.02 m 12H 0.86 t J 8.0 Hz 3H C NMR CDCl 100 MHz 181.07 167.59 166.06 144.77 137.23 129.51 127.49 127.44 117.01 57.40 52.63 49.39 48.50 35.98 35.17 33.07 31.94 26.47 25.79 24.86 22.19 20.31 11.87 10.79 MS m z M H 537.8 purity HPLC 98.7 tR 3.43 min. 98.0 t 3.87 min.

Trans N 4 2 s 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydrobenzo d thiazol 6 yl propyl amino ethylcyclohexyl 3 5 methyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl benzamide 38 H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 8.33 s 1H 8.1

5 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.97 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.53 t J 8.0 Hz 1H 6.29 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 5.36 s 2H 3.98 3.84 m 1H 3.09 2.98 m 1H 2.78 2.40 m 8H 2.66 s 3H 2.17 1.60 m 6H 1.54 1.02 m 9H 0.86 t J 8.0 Hz 3H C NMR CDCl 100 MHz 176.91 167.81 166.74 165.87 144.05 135.74 130.37 129.96 129.32 126.93 125.03 116.36 57.44 52.57 49.36 48.52 35.63 35.23 33.02 31.95 26.12 25.57 24.78 21.90 12.39 11.86 MS m z M H 523.7 purity HPLC 95.1 t 4.18 min.

Diisopropylethylamine 52 mg 0.4 mmol and appropriate sulfonyl chloride 0.12 mmol were added to a suspension of compound 14 68 mg 0.1 mmol in dichloromethane 10 mL and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hr. The reaction was quenched with water and the pH was adjusted to 9 10 by addition of aqueous sodium carbonate. The mixture was extracted with dichloromethane for 3 times. The organic lawyer was separated combined and evaporated. The residue was chromatographed SiO ethyl acetate methanol 95 5 to give compounds 43 47 and 51 53.

Trans N 4 2 s 2 amino 4 5 6 7 tetrahydrobenzo d thiazol 6 yl propyl amino ethylcyclohexyl 4 methoxybenzenesulfonamide 44 H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 7.82 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 6.95 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 5.21 d J 6.0 Hz 1H 5.13 s 2H 3.89 s 3H 3.05 2.96 m 2H 2.78 2.35 m 8H 1.97 1.61 m 6H 1.57 0.85 m 9H 0.86 t J 7.6 Hz 3H C NMR CDCl 100 MHz 166.02 162.63 144.85 133.24 129.01 117.04 114.15 57.38 55.59 53.11 52.58 48.38 35.74 34.61 33.91 31.99 26.62 25.91 24.71 22.11 11.83 MS m z M H 507.7 purity HPLC 95.6 t 4.40 min.

Compounds having an affinity for the dopamine Dreceptor have been disclosed for example in WO 95 04713 WO 96 23760 WO 97 45503 WO 98 27081 WO 99 58499 WO 05 118588 WO 06 040182 WO 06 082456 WO 06 066885 and WO 08 026 046. Some of these compounds possess moderate affinities and or selectivities for the dopamine Dreceptor and therefore have been proposed as suitable for treating diseases of the central nervous system. Unfortunately the affinity and selectivity of these compounds towards the Dreceptor and or their pharmacological profile are not satisfactory. In addition although several promising Dligands showed excellent in vitro potency and selectivity the compounds did not perform well in in vivo functional assays. Consequently there is an ongoing need to provide new compounds that have a high affinity for the Dreceptor and an improved selectivity. The compounds also should have a good pharmacological profile e.g. a high brain plasma ratio a high bioavailability a good metabolic stability and or a decreased inhibition of the mitochondrial respiration.

Through extensive chemical modifications to previously reported Dligands Dligands with high binding affinities to the Dreceptor and an excellent selectivity over the Dand Dreceptors based upon in vitro binding data have been discovered. Compounds 38 and 52 are potent and selective Dligands. Both compounds bind to Dwith a Kvalue of less than 1 nM and display a selectivity of 450 494 times over Dand a greater than 10 000 selectivity over D. Most importantly in vivo functional experiments demonstrate that compounds 38 and 52 function as highly active Dpartial agonists and display an outstanding selectivity at the Dreceptor over the Dreceptor.

While both compounds are active as Dpartial agonists at doses as low as 0.0032 mg kg in the yawning assay in rats the compounds show no activity at the Dreceptors at concentrations as high as 3.2 mg kg thereby displaying over 1000 fold selectivity for Dover D. Evaluations of their interactions with pramipexole a known Dand Dfull agonist with a narrow range of Dselectivity confirm Dpartial agonist activity of compounds 38 and 52 and a devoid Dactivity at 3.2 mg kg. Compounds 38 and 52 are the most active and selective Dpartial agonists reported to date based upon in vivo functional assays. Compounds 38 and 50 also are very soluble in water greater than 100 mg ml making them ideal pharmacological tools to further investigate the role of the Dreceptor in drug abuse and other neurological conditions in animal models. Compounds of the present invention therefore have therapeutic potential for the treatment of drug abuse and other neurological conditions in which the Dreceptor plays a role.

Compounds 10 and 11 were previously reported.Due to discontinuation of Dradioligand H PD128907 compounds 10 and 11 were re evaluated in both the Dand Dassays using Dradioligand H R 7 hydroxy N N di n propyl 2 aminotetralin H R 7 OH DPAT . Compounds 10 and 11 were found to bind to Dwith Kvalues of 1.0 0.04 nM and 1.1 0.3 nM respectively compared to 0.41 0.031 nM and 0.40 0.057 nM respectively as previously reported.Compounds 10 and 11 bind to Dwith Kvalues of 239 60 nM and 185 61 nM respectively compared to 330 69 nM and 307 38 nM respectively as previously reported.Due to primarily the 2.5 fold increase in Kvalues in the Dreceptor binding assay the selectivity of compounds 10 and 11 for Dover Dhas decreased to 239 and 168 times respectively compared to 800 and 763 times respectively as previously reported.

The binding affinities at the D like D like and Dreceptors of compounds of structural formula I were tested. The results are summarized in Table 1.

Compound 33 contains a 4 5 methyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl phenyl group Table 1 . Compound 33 binds to Dwith the same high affinity K 1.3 nM as compound 11 but its selectivity over the Dreceptor is improved to 345 fold due to decreased binding affinity to D. Compounds 34 38 contain different 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl phenyl groups Table 1 . Replacement of the methyl group in compound 33 with ethyl 34 isopropyl 35 or cyclopropyl 36 decreases the binding affinity to Dby 2 3 times and also the selectivity for Dover Dby 2 3 times as compared to compound 33. Compounds 37 and 38 in which the 4 5 methyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl phenyl group in compound 33 is replaced by a 3 5 ethyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl phenyl or a 3 5 methyl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl phenyl bind to Dwith Kvalues of 1.5 nM and 0.73 nM respectively. Their selectivity for Dover Dis 339 and 494 respectively.

The binding affinities at the D like D like and Dreceptors of compounds of structural formula II also were tested. The results are summarized in Table 2. Compounds 43 47 and 51 53 each contain a sulfonamide group in place of the amide group in the linker region Table 2 .

Present compounds 43 47 and 51 53 illustrate the effect of different substituents on the phenyl ring of the Rgroup of structural formula II on binding and selectivity. Compound 43 which has a meta fluoro substituent has a high binding affinity to D 0.72 nM and displays 190 fold selectivity over D. Compound 44 which has a methoxy group at the para position of the phenyl ring also binds to Dwith a high affinity K 0.78 nM but its selectivity over Dis decreased to 49 fold due to its increased binding affinity to D. Compounds 45 47 with a chloro substituent at three different positions on the phenyl ring have high binding affinities 0.68 1.1 nM to Dand also approximately 100 fold selectivity over D.

Table 2 illustrates the effect of replacing one carbon atom in the phenyl ring with a nitrogen atom. Compound 51 in which a nitrogen atom is at the meta position of the phenyl ring in compound 46 binds to Dwith the same affinity as compound 46 but is slightly less selective than Compound 46 over D. Compound 52 in which a nitrogen atom was inserted into the ortho position with respect to the chloro substituent in the phenyl ring in compound 47 binds to Dwith a Kvalue of 0.38 nM and has a selectivity of 451 times over D. Compound 53 in which a nitrogen atom was inserted into the para position with respect to the chloro substituent in the phenyl ring in 47 binds to Dwith a Kvalue of 0.93 nM and has a selectivity of 229 times over D.

The present compounds therefore have very high affinities to Dand an excellent selectivity over D. Among them compound 38 UM 206 and compound 52 UM 226 bind to Dwith Kvalues of 0.73 nM and 0.38 nM respectively and have a selectivity of 494 and 451 times respectively over D. These two compounds also display a selectivity of greater than 10 000 times for Dover the D like receptors.

Despite very high affinities to D compounds 10 and 11 were found to be only active at very high doses in in vivo functional assays in rats thereby suggesting a potentially low bioavailability in the brain. Compounds 38 and 52 therefore were evaluated for in vivo activity and selectivity at the Dreceptor.

Considerable evidence suggests that yawning provides a sensitive measure of agonist activity of a ligand at the dopamine Dreceptor whereas the hypothermic effects are mediated by the agonist activity at the Dreceptor.Accordingly compounds 38 and 52 were evaluated for the effect in the induction of yawning and hypothermia in rats respectively. Pramipexole a full agonist at both the Dand Dreceptors was included in the test as the control compound. Similar to previous reports pramipexole produced dose dependent increases in yawning over low doses 0.032 and 0.1 mg kg with decreased yawning at 0.32 and 1 mg kg and the induction of hypothermia at 1 mg kg consistent with its full agonist activity at the Dand Dreceptors and its narrow in vivo selectivity for Dover D.

In contrast to pramipexole which produced large increase in yawning over a relatively narrow range of doses compounds 38 and 52 induced low levels of yawning over a wide range of doses with significant increases observed at doses as low as 0.0032 mg kg that persisted until a dose of at least 3.2 mg kg. The increases in yawning induced by both compound 38 and compound 52 at doses between 0.0032 and 3.2 mg kg are at 25 of the maximum effect achieved by pramipexole at 0.1 mg kg.

Significantly both compounds 38 and 52 produced no significant decreases in body temperature at a dose of 3.2 mg kg. Although both compound 38 and compound 52 had a significant effect in induction of hypothermia at 10.0 mg kg these changes were much smaller in magnitude than those observed with pramipexole. Together the data suggests that 38 and 52 are a highly bioavailable b readily cross the blood brain barrier c function as low efficacy agonists at doses of 0.0032 3.2 mg kg at the Dreceptor and d have no activity at the Dreceptors at concentrations as high as 3.2 mg kg. These data also indicate that both compounds 38 and 52 are highly selective for the Dreceptor over the Dreceptor in vivo.

To further assess in vivo functional activity at the Dand Dreceptors compounds 38 and 52 were evaluated for their interactions with pramipexole in yawning and hypothermia assays in rats and compared them to known Dantagonist L 741 626 and Dantagonist SB 277011A. Similar to previous reports the Dantagonist SB 277011A at 32 mg kg inhibited the induction of yawning induced by both 0.1 mg kg and 0.32 mg kg of pramipexole.The Dantagonist L 741 626 reversed the inhibition of yawning observed at 0.32 mg kg of pramipexole but failed to alter the induction of yawning by 0.1 mg of pramipexole. These data are consistent with previous findings that pramipexole functions as a full agonist at the Dreceptor at 0.1 mg kg but acts as an agonist at both the Dand Dreceptors at 0.32 mg kg.

Similar to the effects of Dantagonist SB 277011A achieved at 32 mg kg compounds 38 and 52 at 3.2 mg kg effectively inhibited the induction of yawing by 0.1 mg kg of pramipexole and both compounds also reduced the amount of yawning produced by 0.32 mg kg of pramipexole. Importantly there were no significant differences between the amount of yawing produced by 3.2 mg kg of compound 38 or compound 52 and the amount of yawning observed when 3.2 mg kg compound 38 or compound 52 was administered as a 30 min pretreatment to a fully effective dose of pramipexole consistent with the receptor theory on partial agonists.

In addition unlike the increases in yawning observed when L 741 626 was administered before an inhibitory dose of pramipexole administration of compound 38 or compound 52 at a dose of 3.2 mg kg failed to increase the amount of yawning induced by a high dose of pramipexole illustrating that they are devoid of Dantagonist activity at 3.2 mg kg. Taken together these interaction data provide further evidence that compounds 38 and 52 are functioning as partial agonists at the Dreceptor in vivo. Interestingly compounds 38 and 52 also were capable of producing slight but significant reductions in the hypothermic effects of pramipexole suggesting that both compounds acted at the Dreceptor when administered at a dose of 10.0 mg kg . When taken together with the capacity of compounds 38 and 52 to induce slight decreases in body temperature on their own and their inability to reverse the inhibitory effects of high doses of pramipexole on yawning these findings suggest that compounds 38 and 52 are also functioning as partial agonists at the Dreceptor in vivo at 10 mg kg. Collectively the in vivo profiles provided by the yawning and hypothermia assays clearly show that compounds 38 and 52 function as highly active partial agonists at the Dreceptor and display a superb selectivity over the Dreceptor.

In summary a series of enantiomerically pure compounds of structural formula I and II have been synthesized and their binding and selectivity to the D D like and D like receptors has been evaluated. The present invention therefore identifies several potent and highly selective Dligands with excellent aqueous solubility. In vivo functional evaluations show that compounds 38 and 52 function as Dpartial agonists are active at doses as low as 0.0032 mg kg and are devoid of any Dactivity at 3.2 mg kg thus showing over 1000 fold selectivity at the Dreceptor over the Dreceptor.

The present invention therefore is directed to a class of potent and selective Dligands that are highly potent and selective for the Dreceptor over the other dopamine receptor subtypes and that have a unique of pharmacological and behaviorial profile. The present ligands have the therapeutic potential for the treatment of for example drug abuse Parkinson s diseases restless leg syndrome and other conditions in which modulation of the Dreceptor is desirable.

All the synthesized compounds were determined for the binding affinities at the D D like and D like receptors in membranes prepared from the brains of adult male Sprague Dawley rats Pel Freez Rogers Ark. . All compounds were dissolved in 100 EtOH at a concentration of 5 mM.

 H R 7 OH DPAT binding assays for the Ddopamine receptors were performed as previously described in detail.Rat ventral striatum nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercles was prepared in assay buffer 50 mM Tris 1 mM EDTA pH 7.4 at 23 C. to yield a final concentration of 10 mg original wet weight o.w.w. ml. Membranes were incubated with H R 7 OH DPAT 0.15 nM SA 143 Ci mmol GE Healthcare and various concentrations of competing compounds 10to 10M . Nonspecific binding was defined by 1 M spiperone. Assay tubes were incubated at 23 C. for 90 min. The reaction was terminated by rapid vacuum filtration. Data were analyzed using SigmaPlot 8.0.2. using the Kvalue for H 7 OH DPAT of 0.15 nM.Kvalues are expressed at the mean SEM of 3 6 independent determinations.

 H spiperone binding assays for D like receptors were performed as previously described in detailand as described for H 7 OH DPAT except for the following. Assays were performed using membranes prepared from rat caudate putamen which expresses Dreceptors in high density but very low levels of Dreceptors and the final membrane homogenate concentration was 1.5 mg o.w.w. ml. The assay buffer was 50 mM Tris HCl 5 mM KCl 2 mM MgCl and 2 mM CaCl pH 7.4 at 23 C. the concentration of H spiperone 24 Ci mmol GE Healthcare was 0.2 nM and the incubation time was 90 min at 23 C. Nonspecific binding was defined in the presence of 1 M butaclamol. Kvalues were calculated using the experimentally determined Kvalue for H spiperone of 0.4 nM.

 H SCH 23390 binding assays for D like dopamine receptors were performed as previously described in detailand as described for H spiperone binding except the concentration of H SCH 23390 73 Ci mmol GE Healthcare was 0.3 nM. Kvalues were calculated using the Kvalue for H SCH 23390 of 0.3 nM.

Male Sprague Dawley rats Harlan Indianapolis Ind. weighing 250 300 g were housed three to a cage for yawning studies and one to a cage for hypothermia studies and maintained on a 12 h dark light cycle with lights on at 7 00 AM in a temperature 21 23 C. and humidity controlled environment with free access to standard Purina rodent chow and water. Pramipexole compounds 38 and 52 were dissolved in sterile water whereas SB 277011A was dissolved in 20 cyclodextrin and L 741 626 was dissolved in 5 ethanol and water. All drugs were administered subcutaneously s.c. in a volume of 1 ml kg.

All studies were performed in accordance with the Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals as adopted and promulgated by the National Institutes of Health and all experimental procedures were approved by the University of Michigan Committee on the Use and Care of Animals.

Yawning behavior was defined as a prolonged 1 sec. wide opening of the mouth followed by a rapid closure. On the day of testing rats were transferred from their home cage to a test chamber 48 cm 23 cm 20 cm clear rodent cage with standard cob bedding and allowed to habituate to the chamber for a period of 30 min prior to a sterile water injection which was administered 30 min prior to the injection of the compound of interest. Yawns were scored for a period of 60 min thereafter. Each compound was assessed in groups of 6 rats with each rat receiving a single dose of one compound. Food and water were unavailable during test sessions and all experiments were conducted between the hours of 12 00 PM and 6 00 PM with at least 72 hrs between test sessions to allow for drug washout.

Rats were anesthetized with ketamine xylazine 100 10 mg kg i.p. and their abdominal area was shaved and cleaned with alternating betadine and alcohol swabs prior to surgical implantation of radio telemetric probes E 4000 E Mitter Mini Mitter Bend Oreg. USA . A small rostral caudal incision was made in the abdominal wall to allow for insertion of the probe and the abdominal wall was closed using absorbable 5 0 chromic gut suture and the skin was closed using 5 0 Ethilon suture. A 7 day recover period was provided prior to experimentation.

On the day of testing rats were weighed and returned to their home cages which were placed onto a receiving pad ER 4000 Receiver Mini mitter Bend Oreg. to allow for the collection of core body temperature. Temperature measurements were taken every min with at least 30 min of baseline temperature data recorded prior to the administration of antagonist or vehicle. Agonist or vehicle injections were administered 30 min thereafter and core body temperature was recorded for a period of at least the next 60 min. Rats were removed from the receivers for a period of 5 min to allow for injections to be administered but were otherwise uninterrupted. Each rat was tested at each dose condition with at least a 72 hrs between test sessions. All experiments were carried out between the hours of 12 00 PM and 6 00 PM.

Measures of yawning behavior and core body temperature were performed as described above with the exception that compound 38 compound 52 SB 277011A or L 741 626 were administered 30 min prior to doses of 0.1 or 0.32 mg kg pramipexole in yawning studies and 1.0 mg kg pramipexole for hypothermia studies. Compound 38 or compound 52 was administered at doses of 3.2 mg kg for yawning studies and 10.0 mg kg for hypothermia studies whereas SB 277011A and L 741 626 were administered at 32.0 mg kg and 1.0 mg kg respectively for both yawning and hypothermia studies. Briefly following a 30 min habituation period rats were administered either vehicle or one dose of compound 16 30 min prior to a dose of pramipexole. Observation of yawning behavior began immediately after each injection and the total number of yawns was recorded for 60 min thereafter. Core body temperature was continuously measured for at least 60 min after pramipexole administration.

Dose response curves for the induction of yawning and hypothermia were determined with 6 rats per group and results expressed as the mean number of yawns or change in body temperature 60 min post agonist injection compared to the body temperature 1 min prior to the agonist injection standard error of the mean SEM . The effects experimental compounds on pramipexole induced yawning and hypothermia are expressed as the mean number of yawns or change in body temperature observed during the 60 min period immediately following pramipexole administration. One way repeated measures ANOVA with post hoc Newman Keuls tests were used to determine if compounds induced significantly more yawning or hypothermia as compared to vehicle as well as to determine if pretreatments significantly altered pramiepxole induced yawning or hypothermia GraphPad Prism GraphPad Software Inc. San Diego Calif. .

