---

title: Inkjet ink with non-swellable latex particles
abstract: An inkjet ink includes a non-polar carrier, a colorant dispersed in the non-polar carrier, a dispersant, and non-swellable latex particles of a cross-linked polymer dispersed in the non-polar carrier. The colorant is chosen from a pigment, a dye, or a combination of a pigment and a dye. The cross-linked polymer consists of: an acrylic monomer having a molecular weight less than 1000, a vinylic monomer having a molecular weight of less than 1000, or combinations thereof.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08939569&OS=08939569&RS=08939569
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08939569
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20121004
---
The global print market is in the process of transforming from analog printing to digital printing. Digital printing involves printing from a digital based image to a variety of media. Inkjet printing and electrophotographic printing are examples of digital printing techniques. These printing techniques have become increasingly popular for printing photographs and or decorative art items.

The present disclosure relates generally to inkjet inks including non swellable latex particles. Each non swellable latex particle is a cross linked polymer of an acrylic monomer and or a vinylic monomer. Each acrylic and or vinylic monomer used to form the cross linked polymer has a molecular weight less than 1000. Larger monomers and or resins e.g. random copolymers that are soluble in the non polar carrier are not copolymerized with the acrylic and or vinylic monomer having the molecular weight less than 1000. The particular monomers disclosed herein are capable of polymerizing and cross linking to form the non swellable latex particles which are dispersible and substantially insoluble i.e. solubility of less than 1 in the selected non polar carrier. In an example the non swellable latex particles are completely non soluble in the selected non polar carrier. Cross linked latex particles are generally more rigid than latex particles formed with linear non cross linked polymers. Rigid particles facilitate good jettability and long term dispersion stabilization.

By non swellable it is meant that the latex particles experience uptake of the non polar carrier to an extent that the viscosity of the inkjet ink and the size of the latex particles are not substantially affected when the latex particles are added to the non polar carrier. In other words the cross linked polymer matrix traps an amount of the non polar carrier therein that is insufficient to swell the latex particles to the point of rendering them part of the non polar carrier. In some instances the non swellable latex particles do not take on any of the non polar carrier and thus the viscosity and the particle size do not change. In other instances the amount of non polar carrier uptake is so small that the viscosity and or particle size changes by equal to or less than 5 i.e. change in viscosity and or particle size is from 0 to 5 . As such the addition of the non swellable latex particles to the inkjet ink does not result in the formation of a soft gel and thus the inkjet ink is readily jettable via a piezoelectric pen or printhead. The non swellable latex particles disclosed herein are in contrast for example to polyethylene based particles which may swell in the non polar carrier to the point of becoming part of the non polar carrier. The swelling of polyethylene based particles may be due at least in part to the molecular structure similarity between the polyethylene based particles and the non polar carrier.

The non swellable latex particles disclosed herein do not agglomerate or aggregate over time which reduces sedimentation in the inkjet inks. As a result the inkjet inks formed with the non swellable latex particles disclosed herein are stable. The lack of agglomeration or aggregation is achieved without the addition of a copolymer resin to the latex particle that is soluble or even partially soluble in the non polar carrier.

Additionally it is believed that images produced by the examples of the inkjet ink exhibit desirable image quality. This may be due at least in part to the small particle size e.g. from about 50 nm to about 500 nm of the non swellable latex particles in the inkjet ink. The smaller particles improve edge acuity as well as resolution of the printed image. In the final printed image the latex particles also hold the colorants in place and close to the outermost surface of the substrate. It is also believed that the printed images formed from the inkjet ink disclosed herein exhibit enhanced durability and scratch resistance due at least in part to the acrylic and or vinylic monomer used to form the cross linked polymer latex particles and to the fusing utilized in an example of the printing method.

As mentioned above the inkjet ink disclosed herein is printable via a piezoelectric pen or printhead. As such any digital printer utilizing piezoelectric technology may be used to print the inkjet ink. In an example the inkjet ink is printed using a hybrid printing technique which incorporates some aspects of inkjet printing and some aspects of transfer printing. This example will be described further hereinbelow in reference to .

Examples of the inkjet ink disclosed herein include the previously mentioned non polar carrier the previously mentioned non swellable latex particles a colorant and a dispersant. The composition of the inkjet ink will be described further in reference to which illustrates an example of a method for forming the inkjet ink. As shown in the inkjet ink may be formed by preparing a latex particle dispersion reference numeral and then incorporating the latex particle dispersion into a colorant dispersion reference numeral .

Preparation of the latex particle dispersion may be accomplished in a variety of ways. In some examples commercially available latex particles that have been removed from water are added to the non polar carrier and a dispersant to form the latex particle dispersion e.g. reference numeral in and in other examples the latex particles are prepared in water and removed from water and then are added to the non polar carrier and a dispersant to form the latex particle dispersion e.g. reference numeral in .

Whether the non swellable latex particles are commercially available or are prepared using the method s disclosed herein the latex particles are cross linked polymer particles formed from polymerized and cross linked monomers. These monomers consist of an acrylic monomer having a molecular weight of less than 1000 a vinylic monomer having a molecular weight of less than 1000 or combinations of the acrylic monomer and the vinylic monomer. Examples of suitable acrylic monomers include alkyl acrylates alkyl methacrylates and monomers including more than one polymerizable acrylic group. Some specific examples of acrylic monomers are methyl methacrylate butyl acrylate butyl methacrylate hexyl acrylate hexyl methacrylate 2 ethylhexyl acrylate 2 ethylhexyl methacrylate lauryl acrylate lauryl methacrylate stearyl methacrylate acrylic acid methacrylic acid ethylene glycol dimethacrylate pentaerythritol tri acrylate pentaerythritol tetra acrylate pentaaerylthritol tri methacrylate pentaerythritol tetra methacrylate acrylonitrile methacrylonitrile or combinations thereof. Some of the listed acrylic monomers e.g. alkyl acrylates and alkyl methacrylates also include vinyl groups. Examples of vinylic monomers include styrene substituted styrene and monomers including more than one polymerizable vinylic group. Some specific examples of suitable vinylic monomers are divinylbenzene chloromethyl styrene and methylstyrene.

The resulting latex particles each have a molecular weight ranging from about 50 000 to about 1 000 000.

The non swellable latex particles are relatively rigid having a glass transition temperature T ranging from greater than 45 C. to about 120 C. In an example the Tranges from about 60 C. to about 120 C. The high Tminimizes inter particle interaction and thus discrete non agglomerated aggregated latex particles may be maintained during printing which enhances printability. In contrast it is believed that at a lower T e.g. at 45 C. or lower such as at 20 C. printability is deleteriously affected at least because of inter particle interaction.

The Tof the non swellable latex particles may be adjusted by altering the monomers used to form the latex particles. If more than one monomer e.g. multiple acrylic or vinylic monomers or a mixture of the acrylic monomer and the vinylic monomer is used to produce the latex particles then the Tof the polymerized and cross linked latex particles may be estimated using the Fox equation Equation 1 below . The Fox equation may be used to relate the weight fractions of a polymer system to the glass transition temperature 

As mentioned above one example of the latex particle dispersion includes commercially available latex particles. Some examples of commercially available latex particles that have the desirable cross linked polymer matrix include styrene acrylic latex particles of the RAYREZ family e.g. RAYREZ 182A RAYREZ 182D and RAYREZ 200 and of the RAYKOTE family e.g. RAYKOTE 1589 all of which are available from Specialty Polymers Inc. Chester S.C.

Reference numeral in illustrates an example of a method for forming the latex particle dispersion using commercially available latex particles. These particles are often available in the form of an aqueous dispersion. In this example the method includes removing the water of the aqueous dispersion to retrieve the non swellable latex particles reference numeral . Any suitable technique may be used to remove the water including forced air circulation freeze drying or the like.

Once the non swellable latex particles are retrieved the non swellable latex particles are dispersed into the non polar carrier as shown at reference numeral . This may be accomplished by adding the retrieved non swellable latex particles and a suitable amount of a dispersant to the selected non polar carrier and mixing the various components.

In the examples disclosed herein the non polar carrier exhibits properties such as low odor lack of color selective solvency oxidation stability low electrical conductivity low surface tension desirable wetting spreadability low viscosity narrow boiling point range non corrosive to metals low freezing point high electrical resistivity high interfacial tension low latent heat of vaporization and low photochemical reactivity. Further the carrier is selected to have a low field conductivity e.g. less than 200 pS cm so that it does not increase the final conductivity of the inkjet ink.

In an example the non polar carrier may be chosen from hydrocarbon based carriers such as aliphatic linear acyclic or cyclic hydrocarbons branched chain aliphatic hydrocarbons etc. Examples of suitable hydrocarbon carriers include isoparaffinic hydrocarbons such as ISOPAR L or ISOPAR V available from Exxon Mobile Houston Tex. In another example the non polar carrier is an oil such as silicone oil soy bean oil vegetable oil plant extracts and or the like. It is to be understood that a single hydrocarbon carrier or a combination of hydrocarbon carriers may be used that a single oil or a combination of oils may be used or that a combination of hydrocarbon s and oil s may be used.

The dispersant selected for the latex particle dispersion is at least partially soluble in the non polar carrier. In some instances the dispersant itself may include from about 20 wt to about 80 wt of the non polar carrier or another heavy oil . In an example the dispersant s may be selected from anionic dispersants cationic dispersants amphoteric dispersants non ionic dispersants polymeric dispersants oligomeric dispersants crosslinking dispersants or combinations thereof. Examples of anionic dispersants include sulfosuccinic acid and derivatives thereof such as for instance alkyl sulfosuccinates e.g. GEROPON SBFA 30 and GEROPON SSO 75 both of which are manufactured by Rhodia Boulogne Billancourt France and dioctyl sodium sulfosuccinate i.e. docusate sodium DSS Aerosol OT . Examples of cationic dispersants include quaternary amine polymers protonated amine polymers or polymers containing ammonium such as those that are available from Lubrizol Corp. Wickliffe Ohio . Further examples of cationic dispersants include SOLSPERSE 2155 9000 13650 13940 and 19000 Lubrizol Corp. and other like cationic dispersants. Amphoteric dispersants include those containing compounds having protonizable groups and or ionizable acid groups. An example of a suitable amphoteric dispersant is lecithin. Examples of non ionic dispersants include oil soluble polyesters polyamines polyacrylates polymethacrylates such as e.g. SOLSPERSE 3000 Lubrizol Corp. SOLSPERSE 21000 Lubrizol Corp. or the like . Examples of oligomeric dispersants include low average molecular weight i.e. less than 1000 non ionic dispersants. Examples of cross linking dispersants include but are not limited to polymers or oligomers containing two or more carbon double bonds C C and free amine groups such as e.g. polyamines crosslinkable polyurethanes and divinyl benzene. Other suitable dispersants include OS 13309AP OS 13309AQ 14179BL and 45479AB from Lubrizol Corp which are dispersants based on polyisobutylene succinic acid with polyethyleneimines. These dispersants are combination polymers that are cationic in nature. Still other suitable dispersants include biodegradable polymer dispersants such as CERAFLOUR 1000 BYK Gardner USA Columbia Md. or inorganic dispersants such as NANOBYK 3605 BYK Gardner .

Still referring to reference numeral in the retrieved non swellable latex particles the dispersant and the non polar carrier may be mixed using ball milling which involves shaking or milling the components in the presence of beads jar milling microfluidization or high shear mixing without grinding. When ball milling is utilized and after mixing is accomplished for a suitable amount of time the beads are removed and the latex particle dispersion is prepared.

Reference numeral in illustrates an example of a method for forming the latex particle dispersion which includes first preparing i.e. making synthesizing etc. the non swellable latex particles as shown at reference numeral . The latex particles may be prepared by forming an emulsion of the previously described acrylic monomer and or the vinylic monomer in water or in a combination of water and surfactant. The surfactant may be an anionic surfactant such as MAXEMUL 6106 available from Croda Inc. Edison N.J. or the like. Emulsification of the monomers in water or in water and surfactant to form the latex particles may be accomplished using any emulsion based process. Examples of the emulsion based process include a mini emulsion process and a reduction oxidation i.e. redox polymerization process.

When preparing the latex particles any of the previously mentioned monomers may be used alone or in combination. Two specific examples of monomer combinations include i styrene butyl acrylate methacrylonitrile ethylene glycol dimethacrylate and methacrylic acid and ii styrene butyl acrylate ethylene glycol dimethacrylate and methacrylic acid.

During the preparation of the non swellable latex particles an initiator solution is utilized in combination with the emulsion. The initiator solution includes an initiator dissolved in water. The initiator may be a free radical initiator such as azo compounds and organic peroxides or a reduction oxidation i.e. redox initiator such as a persulfate salt e.g. potassium persulfate and ammonium persulfate . In an example about 2.5 g of initiator is added for about every 130 ml of water. It is to be understood however that the amount of initiator may vary depending at least in part on the monomer composition in the emulsion. In an example the amount of initiator in the initiator solution ranges from about 0.2 wt to about 2.5 wt with respect to the total amount of monomers in the emulsion.

The initiator solution and the emulsion are added to water to form a reaction mixture. The water may be used alone or in combination with a small amount of the initiator used in the initiator solution. In an example about 0.6 g of the initiator is added to about 1160 ml of water. The water that receives the initiator solution and the emulsion may be at a temperature ranging from about 20 C. to about 95 C. In an example the water is heated to about 90 C.

In an example the reaction mixture is formed by simultaneously adding the initiator solution and the emulsion to the water. The simultaneous addition may be accomplished over a period of time while mixing at a constant or varying speed occurs. This may contribute to obtaining a more homogeneous reaction mixture.

The reaction mixture is maintained at a predetermined temperature for a predetermined time in order to achieve polymerization and cross linking of the monomer s in the emulsion. The predetermined temperature may be anywhere from ambient temperature e.g. about 20 C. to about 95 C. and will depend at least in part upon the monomer s utilized. The reaction mixture may also be continuously mixed while polymerization and cross linking are allowed to occur. After polymerization and cross linking are complete which may occur e.g. after about 2 hours from when the emulsion is added to the water the final reaction product is cooled e.g. to ambient temperature. The final reaction product includes at least water and the cross linked polymer latex particles i.e. the non swellable latex particles .

The pH of the final reaction product may be adjusted to a value ranging from about 5 to about 9 utilizing a suitable pH adjuster. In some examples the pH is adjusted to a value ranging from 5 to 8.5. If for instance the final reaction product is acidic then a 50 potassium hydroxide solution may be used to adjust the pH to about 7.

The final reaction product may be filtered using e.g. a mesh filter to obtain the non swellable latex particles in water having about 20 solids content. Thereafter the non swellable latex particles are separated from the water by forced air circulation freeze drying or another like technique. The resulting non swellable latex particles have an individual particle size in terms of effective diameter assuming that each particle may not be perfectly spherical ranging from about 50 nm to about 500 nm and thus are jettable from a piezoelectric inkjet pen.

As shown at reference numeral of the method the prepared non swellable latex particles are then dispersed into the non polar carrier to form the latex particle dispersion. This may be accomplished by adding the prepared non swellable latex particles and a suitable amount of a dispersant to the selected non polar carrier and mixing the various components. It is to be understood that any of the previously described dispersants non polar carriers and mixing method s previously described may be used to form this example of the latex particle dispersion.

The preparation of the latex particles in water as described in the method may be particularly desirable at least in part because retrieval of the latex particles from the water and dispersal of the latex particles into the desirable non polar carrier may be readily achieved. The method i avoids challenges that may otherwise be associated with the preparation of the latex particles directly in the non polar carrier and ii results in an inkjet ink including the latex particles which improve print quality e.g. durability scratch resistance etc. and print performance e.g. reduced puddling and decap and jetting consistency in terms of jetting velocity trajectory and drop weight and the non polar carrier which is readily removable during the printing process.

It is to be understood that whether the preparation method of reference numeral or reference numeral is utilized the amount of dispersant added to the non polar carrier to form the latex particle dispersion may depend at least in part on the amount of retrieved or prepared non swellable latex particles to be dispersed. For example the dispersant concentration in the latex particle dispersion may range from about 1 wt to about 30 wt with respect to the latex particle content. The balance of the latex particle dispersion may be the non polar carrier. In a specific example about 30 g of the non swellable latex particles are added to about 113 g of non polar carrier and about 8 g of dispersant.

As shown at reference numeral in the method for forming the inkjet ink includes incorporating the latex particle dispersion into a colorant dispersion. Prior to adding the two dispersions together the colorant dispersion may be formed by mixing the same type of non polar carrier used in the latex particle dispersion and a dye and or a pigment with or without a dispersant. The total wt of the colorant dispersion may include from about 3 wt to about 20 wt of the colorant from about 1 wt to about 30 wt of the dispersant when used and a balance of the non polar carrier.

In an example the colorant may be pigment particles that are self dispersible in the non polar carrier or may be a combination of a self dispersible pigment and a dye. In these examples the colorant dispersion includes the non polar carrier and the colorant alone i.e. without the dispersant . In another example the colorant may be pigment particles that are non self dispersible in the non polar carrier or may be a combination of a non self dispersible pigment and a dye. In this example the colorant dispersion may include one or more dispersants in addition to the non polar carrier and the colorant. In still another example the colorant is a dye alone and in this example the colorant dispersion includes the non polar carrier and the dye without pigment s . It is to be understood that the dispersant may be used when a dye alone is incorporated into the colorant dispersion.

When a dispersant is included in the colorant dispersion any of the previously listed dispersants may be used. Generally the dispersant selected for the colorant dispersion is compatible with the non swellable latex particles in the latex particle dispersion. In some instances the same dispersant is used in both the latex particle dispersion and the colorant dispersion so that the inkjet ink includes one dispersant. In other instances different dispersions may be used in the latex particle dispersion and the colorant dispersion. In these other instances the respective dispersants are selected so that they do not induce precipitation of components in the other dispersion and thus in the final inkjet ink.

In any of the examples disclosed herein the pigment particles may be of the same type or may be a combination of two or more different types e.g. primary and secondary pigments .

The pigment may be organic pigment particles or inorganic pigment particles and each pigment particle may have any particle size i.e. effective diameter that allows the inkjet ink including the colorant dispersion to be printed from a piezoelectric inkjet pen. In an example the size of the pigment particles ranges from about 50 nm to about 500 nm and thus may be the same as or different from the size of the non swellable latex particles.

The organic or inorganic pigment particles may be black yellow magenta red cyan blue green orange brown or white. In some instances the organic or inorganic pigment particles may include spot color or specialty pigment particles. Spot color pigments are formed from a combination of a predefined ratio of two or more primary color pigment particles. Specialty pigments may e.g. be metallic fluorescent and or opalescent pigments.

An example of a suitable inorganic black pigment includes carbon black. Examples of carbon black pigments include those manufactured by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation Japan such as e.g. carbon black No. 2300 No. 900 MCF88 No. 33 No. 40 No. 45 No. 52 MA7 MA8 MA100 and No. 2200B various carbon black pigments of the RAVEN series manufactured by Columbian Chemicals Company Marietta Ga. such as e.g. RAVEN 5750 RAVEN 5250 RAVEN 5000 RAVEN 3500 RAVEN 1255 and RAVEN 700 various carbon black pigments of the REGAL series the MOGUL series or the MONARCH series manufactured by Cabot Corporation Boston Mass. such as e.g. REGAL 400R REGAL 330R and REGAL 660R and various black pigments manufactured by Evonik Degussa Corporation Parsippany N.J. such as e.g. Color Black FW1 Color Black FW2 Color Black FW2V Color Black FW18 Color Black FW200 Color Black S150 Color Black S160 Color Black S170 PRINTEX 35 PRINTEX U PRINTEX V PRINTEX 140U Special Black 5 Special Black 4A and Special Black 4 . An example of an organic black pigment includes aniline black such as C.I. Pigment Black 1.

Some examples of suitable yellow pigments include C.I. Pigment Yellow 1 C.I. Pigment Yellow 2 C.I. Pigment Yellow 3 C.I. Pigment Yellow 4 C.I. Pigment Yellow 5 C.I. Pigment Yellow 6 C.I. Pigment Yellow 7 C.I. Pigment Yellow 10 C.I. Pigment Yellow 11 C.I. Pigment Yellow 12 C.I. Pigment Yellow 13 C.I. Pigment Yellow 14 C.I. Pigment Yellow 16 C.I. Pigment Yellow 17 C.I. Pigment Yellow 24 C.I. Pigment Yellow 34 C.I. Pigment Yellow 35 C.I. Pigment Yellow 37 C.I. Pigment Yellow 53 C.I. Pigment Yellow 55 C.I. Pigment Yellow 65 C.I. Pigment Yellow 73 C.I. Pigment Yellow 74 C.I. Pigment Yellow 75 C.I. Pigment Yellow 81 C.I. Pigment Yellow 83 C.I. Pigment Yellow 93 C.I. Pigment Yellow 94 C.I. Pigment Yellow 95 C.I. Pigment Yellow 97 C.I. Pigment Yellow 98 C.I. Pigment Yellow 99 C.I. Pigment Yellow 108 C.I. Pigment Yellow 109 C.I. Pigment Yellow 110 C.I. Pigment Yellow 113 C.I. Pigment Yellow 114 C.I. Pigment Yellow 117 C.I. Pigment Yellow 120 C.I. Pigment Yellow 124 C.I. Pigment Yellow 128 C.I. Pigment Yellow 129 C.I. Pigment Yellow 133 C.I. Pigment Yellow 138 C.I. Pigment Yellow 139 C.I. Pigment Yellow 147 C.I. Pigment Yellow 151 C.I. Pigment Yellow 153 C.I. Pigment Yellow 154 C.I. Pigment Yellow 167 C.I. Pigment Yellow 172 C.I. Pigment Yellow 180 and C.I. Pigment Yellow 185.

Examples of suitable magenta or red organic pigments include C.I. Pigment Red 1 C.I. Pigment Red 2 C.I. Pigment Red 3 C.I. Pigment Red 4 C.I. Pigment Red 5 C.I. Pigment Red 6 C.I. Pigment Red 7 C.I. Pigment Red 8 C.I. Pigment Red 9 C.I. Pigment Red 10 C.I. Pigment Red 11 C.I. Pigment Red 12 C.I. Pigment Red 14 C.I. Pigment Red 15 C.I. Pigment Red 16 C.I. Pigment Red 17 C.I. Pigment Red 18 C.I. Pigment Red 19 C.I. Pigment Red 21 C.I. Pigment Red 22 C.I. Pigment Red 23 C.I. Pigment Red 30 C.I. Pigment Red 31 C.I. Pigment Red 32 C.I. Pigment Red 37 C.I. Pigment Red 38 C.I. Pigment Red 40 C.I. Pigment Red 41 C.I. Pigment Red 42 C.I. Pigment Red 48 Ca C.I. Pigment Red 48 Mn C.I. Pigment Red 57 Ca C.I. Pigment Red 57 1 C.I. Pigment Red 88 C.I. Pigment Red 112 C.I. Pigment Red 114 C.I. Pigment Red 122 C.I. Pigment Red 123 C.I. Pigment Red 144 C.I. Pigment Red 146 C.I. Pigment Red 149 C.I. Pigment Red 150 C.I. Pigment Red 166 C.I. Pigment Red 168 C.I. Pigment Red 170 C.I. Pigment Red 171 C.I. Pigment Red 175 C.I. Pigment Red 176 C.I. Pigment Red 177 C.I. Pigment Red 178 C.I. Pigment Red 179 C.I. Pigment Red 184 C.I. Pigment Red 185 C.I. Pigment Red 187 C.I. Pigment Red 202 C.I. Pigment Red 209 C.I. Pigment Red 219 C.I. Pigment Red 224 C.I. Pigment Red 245 C.I. Pigment Violet 19 C.I. Pigment Violet 23 C.I. Pigment Violet 32 C.I. Pigment Violet 33 C.I. Pigment Violet 36 C.I. Pigment Violet 38 C.I. Pigment Violet 43 and C.I. Pigment Violet 50.

Examples of blue or cyan organic pigments include C.I. Pigment Blue 1 C.I. Pigment Blue 2 C.I. Pigment Blue 3 C.I. Pigment Blue 15 C.I. Pigment Blue 15 3 C.I. Pigment Blue 15 34 C.I. Pigment Blue 15 4 C.I. Pigment Blue 16 C.I. Pigment Blue 18 C.I. Pigment Blue 22 C.I. Pigment Blue 25 C.I. Pigment Blue 60 C.I. Pigment Blue 65 C.I. Pigment Blue 66 C.I. Vat Blue 4 and C.I. Vat Blue 60.

Examples of green organic pigments include C.I. Pigment Green 1 C.I. Pigment Green 2 C.I. Pigment Green 4 C.I. Pigment Green 7 C.I. Pigment Green 8 C.I. Pigment Green 10 C.I. Pigment Green 36 and C.I. Pigment Green 45.

Suitable examples of orange organic pigments include C.I. Pigment Orange 1 C.I. Pigment Orange 2 C.I. Pigment Orange 5 C.I. Pigment Orange 7 C.I. Pigment Orange 13 C.I. Pigment Orange 15 C.I. Pigment Orange 16 C.I. Pigment Orange 17 C.I. Pigment Orange 19 C.I. Pigment Orange 24 C.I. Pigment Orange 34 C.I. Pigment Orange 36 C.I. Pigment Orange 38 C.I. Pigment Orange 40 C.I. Pigment Orange 43 and C.I. Pigment Orange 66.

Some examples of brown organic pigments include C.I. Pigment Brown 1 C.I. Pigment Brown 5 C.I. Pigment Brown 22 C.I. Pigment Brown 23 C.I. Pigment Brown 25 and C.I. Pigment Brown C.I. Pigment Brown 41 and C.I. Pigment Brown 42.

Suitable white pigments include titanium dioxide zinc oxide calcium carbonate calcium oxide clay mica and alumina hydrate C.I. Pigment White 24 .

Suitable metallic pigments include but are not limited to a metal selected from gold silver platinum nickel chromium tin zinc indium titanium copper aluminum and alloys of any of these metals. These metals may be used alone or in combinations with two or more metals or metal alloys. Examples of metallic pigments include Standard RO100 Standard RO200 and DORADO PX 4001 available from Eckart Effect Pigments Wesel Germany .

In yet another example the pigment may be a pearlescent pigment also known as an opalescent pigment . It is to be understood that suitable pearlescent pigments are those that tend to exhibit various colors depending on the angle of illumination and or of viewing. Examples of pearlescent pigments include those of the PRESTIGE series and of the DORADO PX series both of which are available from Eckart Effect Pigments.

Some of the pigments disclosed herein include polymer additives as they are received from the manufacturer. These polymer additives may be included in the colorant dispersion. Additionally some of the pigments may be polymer encapsulated pigment particles. In particular it is desirable that the metallic pigments or any other conductive pigments be encapsulated with a non conducting polymer coating so that they do not contribute to the conductivity of the final inkjet ink.

Some examples of dyes that may be used as the colorant or one of many colorants in the colorant dispersion include fluorescein rhodamine nigrosine and napthol green.

Incorporating the latex particle dispersion and the colorant dispersion together may be accomplished by adding one of the dispersions to the other dispersion or adding both dispersions to a separate container.

The amount of the latex particle dispersion and the amount of colorant dispersion used to form the inkjet ink will depend at least in part on the desirable composition for the inkjet ink. In an example the inkjet ink includes the non polar carrier in an amount ranging from about 1 wt to about 98 wt of the total wt of the inkjet ink. In other examples the amount of liquid carrier may range from about 50 wt to about 98 wt of the total wt of the inkjet ink or from about 50 wt to about 96 wt of the total wt of inkjet ink. In an example the inkjet ink includes the non swellable latex particles in an amount ranging from about 0.5 wt to about 50 wt of the total wt of inkjet ink. In other examples the amount of the latex particles present in the inkjet ink ranges from about 1 wt to about 10 wt of the total wt of inkjet ink or from about 2 wt to about 5 wt of the total wt of inkjet ink. The total amount of dispersant in the inkjet ink may be up to about 50 wt of the total wt of inkjet ink. In an example the amount of colorant present in the inkjet ink whether it be the pigment the dye or the combination of pigment and dye may be up to about 20 wt of the total wt of inkjet ink. In other examples the amount of the colorant ranges from about 0.5 wt to about 15 wt and in yet another example ranges from about 1 wt to about 5 wt .

The inkjet ink has a relatively low field conductivity which ranges from about 90 pS cm to about 500 pS cm. In an example the field conductivity of the inkjet ink ranges from about 100 pS cm to about 300 pS cm. In another example the field conductivity of the inkjet ink is less than 200 pS cm. The non polar carrier and any dispersant used may contribute to the low field conductivity. The inkjet ink does not include a charge director or a charge adjuvant to increase the conductivity as the relatively low field conductivity is particularly suitable for the hybrid printing technique disclosed herein.

While the preparation of the inkjet ink has been described in reference to it is to be understood that the non swellable latex particles disclosed herein may also be included in a fixing agent or a gloss enhancer that includes the non polar carrier and dispersant but does not include the colorant.

The inkjet ink disclosed herein may be used in any digital inkjet printing system that utilizes a piezoelectric pen including a hybrid printing system which as mentioned above combines aspects of inkjet printing and transfer printing. An example of the hybrid printing system is shown schematically in .

In the example shown in the hybrid printing system includes an intermediate transfer medium ITM that is configured to rotate in a first direction as denoted by the left pointing arrow near the intermediate transfer medium . The intermediate transfer medium has a surface that may be exposed to various elements of the system when the intermediate transfer medium is rotated.

The intermediate transfer medium may be a dielectric drum formed of an elastomeric material such as polydimethylsiloxane PDMS low surface energy polytetrafluoroethylene etc. The ITM should have surface energy properties such that it facilitates desired dot size control avoids ink drop coalescence and facilitates efficient transfer of marking materials to substrates such as paper and plastics.

The surface of the intermediate transfer medium may be uncoated or may be coated with a polymer receiving layer . The polymer receiving layer may be deposited by any suitable mechanism onto the surface of the intermediate transfer medium prior to jetting the ink thereon or the coated intermediate transfer medium may be replaceable within the system . The polymer receiving layer is a thermoplastic polymer having a thickness ranging from about 0.5 m to about 1 m. Examples of suitable thermoplastics include polyethylene polypropylene copolymers of methylene and ethylene and acrylic acid etc. The polymer receiving layer may protect the surface of the intermediate transfer medium may facilitate efficient transfer of the colorant and latex particles from the ITM to the substrate and may also enhance the fusing of the latex particles and the colorants during the printing process. Both the coated and the uncoated surface of the intermediate transfer medium exhibit some elastomeric properties which enable the inkjet ink disclosed herein to initially stick to the coated or uncoated surface when printed thereon and facilitate transfer to the desirable substrate.

The system further includes a piezoelectric pen printhead for dispensing jetting examples of the inkjet ink directly onto the coated or uncoated surface of the intermediate transfer medium to form an image thereon. The piezoelectric pen printhead may dispense the inkjet ink therefrom at a firing frequency up to 50 kHz with controlled dot size and accurate dot placement onto the intermediate transfer medium . The system may include a single piezoelectric pen printhead or multiple piezoelectric pens printheads . The piezoelectric pens printheads may each dispense a differently colored inkjet ink and in some instances a piezoelectric pen printhead may be included to dispense a fixing agent or gloss enhancer.

After the ink s is are printed to form a desirable image on the intermediate transfer medium the intermediate transfer medium rotates so that the printed image is adjacent to a charger . The charger is operable to expose the printed image to an electric field in order to pin the colorant and the non swellable latex particles in the image to the coated or uncoated surface of the intermediate transfer medium . The electrical conductivity of the inkjet ink disclosed herein enables the colorant and the latex particles to be pinned. More particularly electrophoretic action enables the colorant and the latex particles to stick to the coated or uncoated surface of the intermediate transfer medium during the charging process. Examples of suitable chargers include a charge roller or a corona charger. In an example the electric field used to pin the colorants and the non swellable latex particles ranges from about 0.05 V m to about 5 V m.

Once the colorant and latex particles are pinned the intermediate transfer medium is rotated adjacent to a removal mechanism which is operable to remove the non polar carrier and the dispersant from the printed image. The removal mechanism may be a contact roller a doctor blade or an air flow dispenser. The removal mechanism leaves the pinned colorant and latex particles on the coated or uncoated intermediate transfer medium while removing nearly all of the non polar carrier and the dispersant. In an example up to 95 of the non polar carrier is removed and up to 70 of the dispersant is removed.

The intermediate transfer medium is rotated so that the pinned colorant and latex particles in the printed image may be fused to form an ink layer. The system includes a heat source to perform the fusing. Examples of the heat source include an array of ion lenses infrared IR lamps halogen heating lamps hot air blades etc. The heat causes the colorant particles and the latex particles to fuse together to form the ink layer. When the polymer receiving layer is present the colorant particles and the latex particles may fuse together and may also fuse to the layer to form the ink layer. Suitable fusing temperatures may range from about 80 C. to about 150 C. and suitable exposure time to fusing ranges from about 10 msec to about 500 msec.

As the intermediate transfer medium continues to rotate the ink layer is transferred from the intermediate transfer medium to the substrate which is guided by an impression cylinder IC . The impression cylinder guides the substrate such that a surface of the substrate contacts the ink layer on the rotating intermediate transfer medium . When in contact the ink layer transfers to the substrate .

A processor not shown operatively connected to the piezoelectric pen printhead commands the piezoelectric pen printhead to deposit ink in a suitable manner to form an image on the intermediate transfer medium . The processor may also be operatively connected to the charger the removal mechanism and the heat source to perform pinning removal and fusing in a desirable manner. The processor is capable of running suitable software routines or programs for receiving desirable digital images and generating commands for the various components to reproduce digital images using the system .

The system may be operated to deposit and pin multiple colored inkjet inks before performing removal fusing and ink layer transfer. For example one color may be deposited and pinned and then another color may be deposited and pinned and then both of the inks in the image may be exposed to removal fusing and ink layer transfer. The system may also be operated to perform depositing pinning and removal for multiple colored inks before performing fusing and ink layer transfer. For example one color may be deposited pinned and exposed to carrier and dispersant removal and then another color may be deposited pinned and exposed to carrier and dispersant removal and then both of the inks in the image may be exposed to fusing and ink layer transfer. The system may also be operated to deposit multiple colored inkjet inks before performing pinning removal fusing and ink layer transfer. For example multiple colors may be deposited simultaneously or sequentially and then all of the deposited inks may be exposed to pinning removal fusing and ink layer transfer.

The system leverages the effectiveness of digital inkjet printing and the reliability of transfer printing. Examples of the inkjet inks disclosed herein are readily printable via the system . Furthermore the examples of the inkjet inks include the latex particles disclosed herein which are believed to enable a variety of ink printing and print attributes including ink stability jetting reliability controlled drop coalescence controlled dot gain ink coverage rub scratch resistance substrate adhesion and ink layer cohesiveness.

To further illustrate the present disclosure an example is given herein. It is to be understood that this example is provided for illustrative purposes and is not to be construed as limiting the scope of the present disclosure.

Latex particles according to the examples disclosed herein were prepared by emulsifying styrene 57.4 parts butyl acrylate 20 parts methacrylonitrile 20 parts ethylene glycol dimethacrylate 0.6 parts and methacrylic acid 2 parts in water containing MAXEMUL 6106.

An initiator solution was prepared by dissolving potassium persulfate KPS in water. Water with a small amount of KPS was heated to a temperature of 90 C. The above initiator solution was added to the reaction flask containing the hot water over a 50 minute period. The emulsion was simultaneously added to the reaction flask containing the hot water over the 50 minute period. The reaction mixture was maintained at a temperature of about 90 C. for an extended period of 2.5 hours and then cooled to ambient temperature. The pH of final dispersion was adjusted to 7.2 with 50 potassium hydroxide solution. The product was filtered with 200 mesh filter to obtain latex particles in water with about 20 solid content. The water was removed to obtain the latex particles.

A latex particle dispersion was prepared by mixing the latex particles 30 g with ISOPAR L 112.5 g . A dispersant 7.5 g of 40 Lubrizol OS 13308AQ was added. This dispersion was jar milled with 500 g of 2 mm zirconia beads for 17 hours and then the beads were removed.

The latex particle dispersion was mixed with an ISOPAR L based pigment dispersion to form the inkjet ink having 5 of the pigment and 2.5 of the latex particles.

An ISOPAR L based pigment dispersion including 5 of the pigment and none of the latex particles was used as a comparative ink. The comparative ink also included 1 dispersant from Lubrizol and 1.5 heavy oil in addition to the ISOPAR L making up the balance of the comparative ink .

The inkjet ink including the latex particles and the comparative inkjet ink were each printed with a Dimatix Materials Printer DMP from Fujifilm USA and a 10 pL printhead. illustrates the drop velocity versus firing voltage data that was obtained. As illustrated at the same firing voltage the drop velocity was higher for the inkjet ink including the latex particles than for the comparative inkjet ink. The higher drop velocity results in higher speed printing which is desirable for many digital printers.

It is to be understood that the ranges provided herein include the stated range and any value or sub range within the stated range. For example a range from about 50 nm to about 500 nm should be interpreted to include not only the explicitly recited limits of about 50 nm to about 500 nm but also to include individual values such as 50 nm 100 nm 320 nm etc. and sub ranges such as from about 100 nm to about 380 nm from about 200 nm to about 250 nm etc. Furthermore when about is utilized to describe a value this is meant to encompass minor variations up to 1 5 from the stated value.

While several examples have been described in detail it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the disclosed examples may be modified. Therefore the foregoing description is to be considered non limiting.

