---

title: Restricting access of a wireless communication device to a communication channel
abstract: Devices, systems, articles of manufacture, and methods for restricting access to a communication channel are described. According to some embodiments, a message with access restriction data addressed to at least one wireless communication device is generated. The access restriction data indicates that a group of wireless communication devices is associated with a priority value and that the group of wireless communication devices has restricted access to a communication channel. The message is transmitted to the at least one wireless communication device. Other aspects, embodiments and features are also claimed and described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08792875&OS=08792875&RS=08792875
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08792875
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120405
---
This application is related to and claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 473 667 filed Apr. 8 2011 for APPARATUS AND METHODS FOR RESTRICTING ACCESS TO A COMMUNICATION CHANNEL BY WIRELESS TERMINALS OF A WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM and from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 473 674 filed Apr. 8 2011 for APPARATUS AND METHODS FOR RESTRICTING ACCESS TO A COMMUNICATION CHANNEL BY WIRELESS TERMINALS OF A WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM. All of said applications are hereby incorporated herein by reference for all purposes and as if fully set forth below in their entireties.

The present disclosure relates generally to communication systems. More specifically the present disclosure relates to restricting access of a wireless communication device to a communication channel.

Wireless communication systems have become an important means by which many people worldwide have come to communicate. A wireless communication system may provide communication for a number of subscriber stations each of which may be serviced by a base station.

Wireless communication systems typically include a network and multiple wireless communication devices. Wireless communication devices require access to communication channels to communicate with the network. However as the number of wireless communication devices increase the available network resources may decrease. Therefore benefits may be realized by reducing network congestion and by managing access to the network by wireless communication devices.

Devices systems articles of manufacture and methods for restricting access to a communication channel are described. According to one embodiment a method for restricting access to a communication channel is described. A message with access restriction data addressed to at least one wireless communication device is generated. The access restriction data indicates that a group of wireless communication devices is associated with a priority value and that the group of wireless communication devices has restricted access to a communication channel. The message is transmitted to the at least one wireless communication device.

Methods may also have additional features. For example a method may be performed by a base station. The access restriction data may be suitable for both packet processing and circuit switched processing. The priority value may include a set of priority values and the generating the access restriction data may generate the set of priority values.

A portion of the message may be a rest octets information element that may include access restriction data. The message may also indicate whether access may be granted to a specified communication channel by a specified wireless communication device. The rest octets information element may be one an immediate assignment reject message an immediate assignment extended message an immediate assignment message a paging request type 1 message a paging request type 2 message or a paging request type 3 message.

The access restriction data may indicate a time interval during which wireless communication devices associated with the priority value have restricted access. The time interval may include one time interval of a set of time intervals. Generating the access restriction data may indicate the one time interval. The one time interval may be a time interval range that may be a range of 1 to 120 seconds a range of 1 to 60 minutes a range of 1 to 24 hours or a range of 1 to 15 days. The communication channel may include a plurality of dedicated channels that is available for use by wireless communication devices in a wireless communication system. The wireless communication devices that have the priority value associated with them may have no access to any of the plurality of dedicated channels during the time interval. The priority value may be obtained from a receiver.

The message may be a paging message addressed to the at least one wireless communication device. Transmitting the message may include transmitting the paging message on a paging channel. A portion of the paging message may include a rest octets information element.

The message may include an access message addressed to the at least one wireless communication device. Transmitting the message may include transmitting the access message on an access channel. A portion of the access message may include a rest octets information element.

According to another embodiment a method for restricting access to a communication channel by a wireless communication device is described. A message including access restriction data is received. The access restriction data indicates that a group of wireless communication devices is associated with a priority value and that the group of wireless communication devices has restricted access to a communication channel. Access to the communication channel is restricted based on the indication provided by the access restriction data.

A portion of the message may be a rest octets information element that may include access restriction data. Restricting access may also be based on the rest octets information element. The rest octets information element may be an immediate assignment reject message an immediate assignment extended message an immediate assignment message a paging request type 1 message a paging request type 2 message or a paging request type 3 message.

The priority value may include a set of priority values. Generating the access restriction data may generate the set of priority values. The wireless communication device may include a stored priority value. Restricting access may occur when the priority value includes the stored priority value.

The communication channel may include an uplink communication channel. The uplink data via the uplink communication channel may be transmitted. Uplink data may include a request for access to the communication channel.

The access restriction data may indicate a time interval during which wireless communication devices associated with the priority value have restricted access. Restricting access may be further based on a value of time within the time interval. Access restriction to the communication channel may be removed when the value of time has elapsed. The time interval may include one time interval of a set of time intervals. Generating the access restriction data may also indicate the one time interval. The one time interval may be a time interval range that may be a range of 1 to 120 seconds a range of 1 to 60 minutes a range of 1 to 24 hours or a range of 1 to 15 days. The communication channel may include a plurality of dedicated channels that is available for use by wireless communication devices in a wireless communication system. Wireless communication devices that have the priority value associated with them may have no access to any of the plurality of dedicated channels during the time interval. The message may also indicate whether access may be granted to a specified communication channel by a specified wireless communication device.

The message may be a paging message and may be received on a paging channel. The message may be an access message and may be received on an access channel.

According to yet another embodiment an apparatus for restricting access to a communication channel is described. The apparatus includes a processor and executable instructions stored in memory that is in electronic communication with the processor. The apparatus generates a message including access restriction data addressed to at least one wireless communication device. The access restriction data indicates that a group of wireless communication devices is associated with a priority value and that the group of wireless communication devices has restricted access to a communication channel. The apparatus also transmits the message to the at least one wireless communication device.

According to still another embodiment a wireless communication device for restricting access to a communication channel is described. The wireless communication device includes a processor and executable instructions stored in memory that is in electronic communication with the processor. The wireless communication device receives a message including access restriction data. The access restriction data indicates that a group of wireless communication devices is associated with a priority value and that the group of wireless communication devices has restricted access to a communication channel. The wireless communication device also restricts access to the communication channel based on the indication provided by the access restriction data.

According to another embodiment a computer program product for restricting access to a communication channel is described. The computer program product includes a non transitory computer readable medium with instructions thereon. The computer program product includes instructions for generating a message including access restriction data addressed to at least one wireless communication device. The access restriction data indicates that a group of wireless communication devices is associated with a priority value and that the group of wireless communication devices has restricted access to a communication channel. The computer program product also includes instructions transmitting the message to the at least one wireless communication device.

According to still another embodiment a computer program product for restricting access to a communication channel on a wireless communication device is described. The computer program product includes a non transitory computer readable medium having instructions thereon. The computer program product includes instructions for receiving a message including access restriction data. The access restriction data indicates that a group of wireless communication devices is associated with a priority value and that the group of wireless communication devices has restricted access to a communication channel. The computer program product also includes instructions for restricting access to the communication channel based on the indication provided by the access restriction data.

According to yet another embodiment an apparatus for restricting access to a communication channel is described. The apparatus includes means for generating a message including access restriction data addressed to at least one wireless communication device. The access restriction data indicates that a group of wireless communication devices is associated with a priority value and that the group of wireless communication devices has restricted access to a communication channel. The apparatus also includes means for transmitting the message to the at least one wireless communication device.

According to still yet another embodiment a wireless communication device for restricting access to a communication channel is described. The wireless communication device includes means for receiving a message including access restriction data. The access restriction data indicates that a group of wireless communication devices is associated with a priority value and that the group of wireless communication devices has restricted access to a communication channel. The wireless communication device also includes means for restricting access to the communication channel based on the indication provided by the access restriction data.

Other aspects features and embodiments of the present invention will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reviewing the following description of specific exemplary embodiments of the present invention in conjunction with the accompanying figures. While features of the present invention may be discussed relative to certain embodiments and figures below all embodiments of the present invention can include one or more of the advantageous features discussed herein. In other words while one or more embodiments may be discussed as having certain advantageous features one or more of such features may also be used in accordance with the various embodiments of the invention discussed herein. In similar fashion while exemplary embodiments may be discussed below as device system or method embodiments it should be understood that such exemplary embodiments can be implemented in various devices systems and methods.

More and more people are using wireless communication devices such as mobile phones not only for voice but also for data communications. Telecommunications networks are being placed under increasing strain both due to increasing bandwidth requirements of smartphones and mobile computers and the increasing numbers devices and programs that seek access to the networks. For example many applications running on smartphones periodically access the network to check for updates.

While each access itself may only consume a relatively small amount of bandwidth large numbers of devices running lots of applications can place a significant load on networks and signaling and control channels in particular. The increasing prevalence of machine type communication MTC devices e.g. machine to machine M2M can similarly increase demands placed upon network resources.

A wireless communication device e.g. wireless terminal requiring network resource may wirelessly transmit a request for access to a communication channel for example a traffic channel. A traffic channel is also known as a dedicated channel and is used to carry dedicated data between the network and a wireless communication device. Dedicated data is directed to or from a particular wireless communication device as compared to broadcast data which is transmitted by the network via a broadcast channel and is directed to plural wireless communication devices.

The wireless communication device transmits a request for access to a channel in the form of a channel request message. The channel request message may be transmitted on an uplink from the wireless communication device to a network apparatus e.g. a base station via an access channel for requesting access to a channel. The wireless communication device may continue sending channel requests periodically until either it has transmitted a specified number of requests or it receives a response from the network.

The network may respond to the channel request by transmitting on a downlink from the network apparatus to the wireless communication device an access message which includes either an assignment message or a reject message commonly termed an assignment reject message .

The network transmits the access message via an access channel for granting or refusing access to a channel by a wireless communication device. The assignment message indicates that the wireless communication device that requested access has been assigned a channel i.e. the wireless communication device has been granted access to the channel. The reject message indicates that the wireless communication device that requested access has not been assigned a channel. The reject message is transmitted when the network does not have enough resource to allocate the requested channel for example when all suitable channels are in use. A wireless communication device that receives a reject message will discontinue sending access requests.

A typical network can receive during a given time period many more channel requests than it can transmit messages on the access channel to grant or refuse access. This is partly because each cell has many wireless communication devices and only one base station which can transmit only a limited number of messages in a given time period. Also each access reject message can only reject a limited number of wireless communication devices. For example a single reject message may only be able to reject up to four wireless communication devices.

Due to an increasing number of wireless communication devices present in any one cell or sector the network can only grant access to a small portion of the wireless communication devices that request such access. Wireless communication devices that have sent channel requests and have not received any response from the network within a specified period will send one or more further channel requests for access. A wireless communication device may transmit up to a maximum number of channel requests. The maximum number may be defined by the network via broadcast information transmitted by the network. For example a system controller may send broadcast information specifying which wireless communication devices may access the network. During congested traffic conditions a wireless communication device may transmit several channel requests before receiving an access message from the network. Under these congested conditions the wireless communication device is effectively wasting resources by using the uplink access channel unproductively and by increasing the number of requests which the network receives to which the network cannot respond.

When a wireless communication device has transmitted a maximum number of channel requests and has not received an assignment message within a specified period following the last channel request the wireless communication device will determine that an access channel failure has occurred and will trigger cell reselection. The cell reselection may require the wireless communication device to perform a registration update before it can send or receive useful data. Registration updates may use significant system resources and may be time consuming Frequent cell reselection can therefore lead to poorer system performance.

One possible solution would be to increase the delay between adjacent channel requests from any given wireless communication device but this only prolongs the problem. If the delay is too long then the wireless communication device may have generated new data to be sent e.g. a new report while its previously generated data e.g. a previous report is still waiting to be sent. An alternative solution would be to have multiple access channels but this requires more network resources and may therefore be undesirable in certain instances.

Another solution would be to use access class barring which prevents one or more classes of wireless communication devices from making access. Access class barring is described in 3GPP TS 22.011 version 10.2.1 section 4 Access Control in particular section 4.3.1 . Access class barring is seldom used because it is a crude instrument and it takes time to take effect. It involves changing broadcast information which is sent less often and therefore it takes time before wireless communication devices have updated information. Access class barring also impacts battery life because all wireless communication devices need to wake up from idle mode and read system information that is broadcast on a broadcast channel. Moreover wireless communication systems often include legacy wireless communication devices that were made before access class barring was developed. This solution would therefore exclude these legacy wireless communication devices.

Another solution may be for a network to reject a wireless communication device after it has made an access request and to command the wireless communication device not to make another access request for a certain period of time. This way the network could reject one two three or four wireless communication devices by transmitting a single message via an access grant channel AGCH . This rejection mechanism is described in 3GPP TS 44.018 version 9.6.0 section 9.1.20 . The mechanism works in real time but it can only address up to four wireless communication devices at a time. To reject more than four wireless communication devices would require transmitting more than one message on the AGCH and this could lead to unacceptably increased loading of the AGCH.

A mechanism for implicitly rejecting more than four wireless communication devices was proposed in document GP 110276 entitled 44.018 CR 0882 Implicit Immediate Assignment Reject presented at technical meeting 3GPP GERAN 49 in Chengdu China Feb. 28 to Mar. 4 2011. This is not an ideal solution for a number of reasons. First the network transmits information elements that are intended for other purposes than rejecting wireless communication devices. Second wireless communication devices need to understand some aspect of General Packet Radio Service GPRS in order to respond to the transmitted information elements. Many wireless communication devices particularly very low cost wireless communication devices will not support General Packet Radio Service GPRS and therefore cannot respond. Finally the proposed mechanism requires the wireless communication device to be in the process of making a channel request.

Embodiments of the present invention are provisioned for providing solutions enabling efficient network access and include various features aimed at addressing network congestion issues. For example one configuration of some system and method embodiments of the present invention are directed to a network of a wireless communication system that can restrict access to a communication channel. This can be done by transmitting access restriction data e.g. access messages or signals . Restriction may be for both wireless communication devices that operate using circuit switched data and wireless communication devices that operate using packet data. In other words the access restriction data is suitable for both circuit switched processing and packet processing. This allows the access restricting data to be processed by a wireless communication device that may only process circuit switched data. For example the access restriction data may be included within a rest octets information element. This allows the formatting of the access restricting data to be flexible as compared to using an information element intended for some other specific purpose.

By transmitting access restriction data via a paging channel and or the access channel access by any number of wireless communication devices may be restricted even when those wireless communication devices have not yet begun the process of requesting access. This may greatly reduce the number of failed access attempts when network traffic is congested. For example a wireless communication device may receive access restriction data via the paging channel while the wireless communication device is in idle mode. The wireless communication device will then remain in idle mode and will not attempt to access the network for instance for a prescribed period. This results in reduced power consumption of the wireless communication device when the wireless communication device is in idle mode because the wireless communication device does not need to use energy to send or receive signals via any other channels.

Another advantage is reduced congestion of the access channel via which the network transmits access messages to wireless communication devices. This means that more wireless communication devices will timely receive responses from the network to channel requests that the wireless communication devices transmit.

The paging and or access message may be addressed to any number of wireless communication devices thereby further reducing the number of failed access attempts by wireless communication devices and avoiding unnecessary use of a channel used to request access. The paging and or access message may be transmitted in a short time. For example in some embodiments the time period may be 10 milliseconds ms 20 ms 40 ms 60 ms etc.

The number of wireless communication devices that are effectively addressed by the access restriction data can be controlled for example by the use of selective paging paging groups or paging occasions.

Selective addressing makes it possible to provide access to an optimum number of wireless communication devices over a period during which the network capacity varies. Wireless communication devices listening to a particular paging group can be prevented from accessing the network. The network can send access restriction data in one paging group two paging groups three paging groups etc. This allows different groups of wireless communication devices to be restricted from accessing the network at different times. It also prevents a different number of devices from making access at different times.

Now turning to the drawings shows an example of a wireless communication system in which embodiments of the present invention disclosed herein may be utilized. The wireless communication system includes multiple base stations and multiple wireless communication devices . Each base station provides communication coverage for a particular geographic area . The term cell can refer to a base station and or its coverage area depending on the context in which the term is used.

The terms wireless communication device and base station utilized in this application can generally refer to an array of components. For example as used herein the term wireless communication device refers to an electronic device that may be used for voice and or data communication over a wireless communication system. Examples of wireless communication devices include cellular phones personal digital assistants PDAs handheld devices wireless modems laptop computers and personal computers. A wireless communication device may alternatively be referred to as an access terminal a mobile terminal a mobile station a remote station a user terminal a terminal a subscriber unit a subscriber station a mobile device a wireless device user equipment UE or some other similar terminology. Also the term base station can refer to a wireless communication station that is installed at a fixed location and used to communicate with wireless communication devices . A base station may alternatively be referred to as an access point including nano pico and femto cells a Node B an evolved Node B a Home Node B or some other similar terminology.

To improve system capacity a base station coverage area may be partitioned into plural smaller areas e.g. three smaller areas and . Each smaller area may be served by a respective base transceiver station BTS . The term sector can refer to a BTS and or its coverage area depending on the context in which the term is used. For a sectorized cell the BTSs for all sectors of that cell are typically co located within the base station for the cell.

Wireless communication devices are typically dispersed throughout the wireless communication system . A wireless communication device may communicate with one or more base stations on the downlink and or uplink at any given moment. The downlink or forward link refers to the communication link from a base station to a wireless communication device and the uplink or reverse link refers to the communication link from a wireless communication device to a base station . Uplink and downlink may refer to the communication link or to the carriers used for the communication link.

For a centralized architecture a system controller may couple to the base stations and provide coordination and control for the base stations . The system controller may be a single network entity or a collection of network entities. As another example for a distributed architecture base stations may communicate with one another as needed.

At the transmitter a transmit TX data processor receives and processes e.g. formats encodes and interleaves data and provides coded data. A modulator performs modulation on the coded data and provides a modulated signal. The modulator may perform Gaussian minimum shift keying GMSK for GSM 8 ary phase shift keying 8 PSK for Enhanced Data rates for Global Evolution EDGE etc. GMSK is a continuous phase modulation protocol whereas 8 PSK is a digital modulation protocol. A transmitter unit TMTR conditions e.g. filters amplifies and upconverts the modulated signal and generates an RF modulated signal which is transmitted via an antenna .

At the receiver an antenna receives RF modulated signals from the transmitter and other transmitters. The antenna provides a received RF signal to a receiver unit RCVR . The receiver unit conditions e.g. filters amplifies and downconverts the received RF signal digitizes the conditioned signal and provides samples. A demodulator processes the samples as described below and provides demodulated data. A receive RX data processor processes e.g. deinterleaves and decodes the demodulated data and provides decoded data . In general the processing by demodulator and RX data processor is complementary to the processing by the modulator and the TX data processor respectively at the transmitter .

Controllers processors and direct operation at the transmitter and receiver respectively. Memories and store program codes in the form of computer software and data used by the transmitter and receiver respectively.

Within the demodulator a pre processor performs pre processing on the I and Q samples from the analog to digital converter ADC . For example the pre processor may remove direct current DC offset remove frequency offset etc. An input filter filters the samples from the pre processor based on a particular frequency response and provides input I and Q samples which are denoted as Iand Q. The input filter may filter the I and Q samples to suppress images resulting from the sampling by the analog to digital converter ADC as well as jammers. The input filter may also perform sample rate conversion e.g. from 24 oversampling down to 2 oversampling. A data filter filters the input I and Q samples from the input filter based on another frequency response and provides output I and Q samples which are denoted as Iand Q. The input filter and the data filter may be implemented with finite impulse response FIR filters infinite impulse response IIR filters or filters of other types. The frequency responses of the input filter and the data filter may be selected to achieve good performance. In one design the frequency response of the input filter is fixed and the frequency response of the data filter is configurable.

An adjacent channel interference ACI detector receives the input I and Q samples from the input filter detects for adjacent channel interference ACI in the received RF signal and provides an adjacent channel interference ACI indicator to the data filter . The adjacent channel interference ACI indicator may indicate whether or not adjacent channel interference ACI is present and if present whether the adjacent channel interference ACI is due to the higher RF channel centered at 200 kilohertz kHz and or the lower RF channel centered at 200 kHz. The frequency response of the data filter may be adjusted based on the adjacent channel interference ACI indicator to achieve desirable performance.

An equalizer detector receives the output I and Q samples from the data filter and performs equalization matched filtering detection and or other processing on these samples. For example the equalizer detector may implement a maximum likelihood sequence estimator MLSE that determines a sequence of symbols that is most likely to have been transmitted given a sequence of I and Q samples and a channel estimate.

The Global System for Mobile Communications GSM is a widespread standard in cellular wireless communication. GSM is relatively efficient for standard voice services. However high fidelity audio and data services require higher data throughput rates than that for which GSM is optimized. To increase capacity the General Packet Radio Service GPRS EDGE Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution and UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards have been adopted in GSM systems. In the GSM EDGE Radio Access Network GERAN specification GPRS and EGPRS provide data services. The standards for GERAN are maintained by the 3GPP Third Generation Partnership Project . GERAN is a part of GSM. More specifically GERAN is the radio part of GSM EDGE together with the network that joins the base stations the Ater and Abis interfaces and the base station controllers A interfaces etc. . GERAN represents the core of a GSM network. It routes phone calls and packet data from and to the PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network and Internet to and from remote terminals. GERAN is also a part of combined UMTS GSM networks.

GSM employs a combination of Time Division Multiple Access TDMA and Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA for the purpose of sharing the spectrum resource. GSM networks typically operate in a number of frequency bands. For example for uplink communication GSM 900 commonly uses a radio spectrum in the 890 915 megahertz MHz bands Mobile Station to Base Transceiver Station . For downlink communication GSM 900 uses 935 960 MHz bands base station to wireless communication device . Furthermore each frequency band is divided into 200 kHz carrier frequencies providing 124 RF channels spaced at 200 kHz. GSM 1900 uses the 1850 1910 MHz bands for the uplink and 1930 1990 MHz bands for the downlink. Like GSM 900 FDMA divides the spectrum for both uplink and downlink into 200 kHz wide carrier frequencies. Similarly GSM 850 uses the 824 849 MHz bands for the uplink and 869 894 MHz bands for the downlink while GSM 1800 uses the 1710 1785 MHz bands for the uplink and 1805 1880 MHz bands for the downlink.

An example of an existing GSM system is identified in technical specification document 3GPP TS 45.002 V4.8.0 2003 06 entitled Technical Specification 3rd Generation Partnership Project Technical Specification Group GSM EDGE Radio Access Network Multiplexing and multiple access on the radio path Release 4 published by the 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP standards setting organization.

Each channel in GSM is identified by a specific absolute radio frequency channel ARFCN . For example ARFCN 1 124 are assigned to the channels of GSM 900 while ARFCN 512 810 are assigned to the channels of GSM 1900. Similarly ARFCN 128 251 are assigned to the channels of GSM 850 while ARFCN 512 885 are assigned to the channels of GSM 1800. Also each base station is assigned one or more carrier frequencies. Each carrier frequency is divided into eight time slots which are labeled as time slots 0 through 7 using TDMA such that eight consecutive time slots form one TDMA frame with a duration of 4.615 milliseconds ms . A physical channel occupies one time slot within a TDMA frame. Each active wireless communication device or user is assigned one or more time slot indices for the duration of a call. User specific data for each wireless communication device is sent in the time slot s assigned to that wireless communication device and in TDMA frames used for the traffic channels.

Each time slot within a frame is also referred to as a burst in GSM. Each burst includes two tail fields two data fields a training sequence or midamble field and a guard period GP . The number of symbols in each field is shown inside the parentheses. A burst includes symbols for the tail data and midamble fields. No symbols are sent in the guard period. TDMA frames of a particular carrier frequency are numbered and formed in groups of 26 or 51 TDMA frames called multiframes .

In GSM EDGE frequency bursts FB are sent regularly by the base station to allow wireless communication devices to synchronize their local oscillator LO to the base Station local oscillator LO using frequency offset estimation and correction. These bursts include a single tone which corresponds to all 0 payload and training sequence. The all zero payload of the frequency burst is a constant frequency signal or a single tone burst. When in power mode the wireless communication device hunts continuously for a frequency burst from a list of carriers. Upon detecting a frequency burst the wireless communication device will estimate the frequency offset relative to its nominal frequency which is 67.7 kHz from the carrier. The wireless communication device local oscillator LO will be corrected using this estimated frequency offset. In power up mode the frequency offset can be as much as 19 kHz. The wireless communication device may periodically wakeup to monitor the frequency burst to maintain its synchronization in standby mode. In the standby mode the frequency offset is within 2 kHz.

One or more modulation schemes are used in GERAN systems to communicate information such as voice data and or control information. Examples of the modulation schemes may include Gaussian Minimum Shift Keying GMSK M ary Quadrature Amplitude Modulation QAM or M ary PSK Phase Shift Keying where M 2 with n being the number of bits encoded within a symbol period for a specified modulation scheme. GMSK is a constant envelope binary modulation scheme allowing raw transmission at a maximum rate of 270.83 kilobits per second Kbps .

General Packet Radio Service GPRS is a non voice service. It allows information to be sent and received across a mobile telephone network. It supplements Circuit Switched Data CSD and Short Message Service SMS . GPRS employs the same modulation schemes as GSM. GPRS allows for an entire frame all eight time slots to be used by a single mobile station at the same time. Thus higher data throughput rates are achievable.

The EDGE standard uses both the GMSK modulation and 8 PSK modulation. Also the modulation type can be changed from burst to burst. 8 PSK modulation in EDGE is a linear 8 level phase modulation with 3 8 rotation while GMSK is a non linear Gaussian pulse shaped frequency modulation. However the specific GMSK modulation used in GSM can be approximated with a linear modulation i.e. 2 level phase modulation with a 2 rotation . The symbol pulse of the approximated GSMK and the symbol pulse of 8 PSK are identical. The EGPRS2 standard uses GMSK QPSK 8 PSK 16 QAM and 32 QAM modulations. The modulation type can be changed from burst to burst. Q PSK 8 PSK 16 QAM and 32 QAM modulations in EGPRS2 are linear 4 level 8 level 16 level and 32 level phase modulations with 3 4 3 8 4 4 rotation while GMSK is a non linear Gaussian pulse shaped frequency modulation. However the specific GMSK modulation used in GSM can be approximated with a linear modulation i.e. 2 level phase modulation with a 2 rotation . The symbol pulse of the approximated GSMK and the symbol pulse of 8 PSK are identical. The symbol pulse of Q PSK 16 QAM and 32 QAM can use spectrally narrow or wide pulse shapes.

The processing unit controls operation of the wireless device . The processing unit may also be referred to as a central processing unit CPU . Memory which may include both read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM provides instructions and data to the processing unit . A portion of the memory may also include non volatile random access memory NVRAM .

The various components of the wireless device are coupled together by a bus system which may include a power bus a control signal bus and a status signal bus in addition to a data bus. For the sake of clarity the various busses are illustrated in as the bus system .

The steps of the methods discussed may also be stored as instructions in the form of software or firmware located in memory in a wireless device . These instructions may be executed by the controller processor s of the wireless device . Alternatively or in conjunction the steps of the methods discussed may be stored as instructions in the form of software or firmware located in memory in the wireless device . These instructions may be executed by the processing unit of the wireless device in .

In a data source provides data d t to a frame quality indicator FQI encoder . The frame quality indicator FQI encoder may append a frame quality indicator FQI such as a cyclic redundancy check CRC to the data d t . The frame quality indicator FQI encoder may further encode the data and frame quality indicator FQI using one or more coding schemes to provide encoded symbols . Each coding scheme may include one or more types of coding e.g. convolutional coding Turbo coding block coding repetition coding other types of coding or no coding at all. Other coding schemes may include automatic repeat request ARQ hybrid ARQ H ARQ and incremental redundancy repeat techniques. Different types of data may be encoded with different coding schemes.

An interleaver interleaves the encoded data symbols in time to combat fading and generates symbols . The interleaved symbols may be mapped by a frame format block to a pre defined frame format to produce a frame . In an example a frame format block may specify the frame as being composed of a plurality of sub segments. Sub segments may be any successive portions of a frame along a given dimension e.g. time frequency code or any other dimension. A frame may be composed of a fixed plurality of such sub segments each sub segment including a portion of the total number of symbols allocated to the frame . In one example the interleaved symbols are segmented into a plurality S of sub segments making up a frame .

A frame format block may further specify the inclusion of e.g. control symbols not shown along with the interleaved symbols . Such control symbols may include e.g. power control symbols frame format information symbols etc.

A modulator modulates the frame to generate modulated data . Examples of modulation techniques include binary phase shift keying BPSK and quadrature phase shift keying QPSK . The modulator may also repeat a sequence of modulated data.

A baseband to radio frequency RF conversion block may convert the modulated data to RF signals for transmission via an antenna as signal over a wireless communication link to one or more wireless device receivers.

When the amount of network traffic is great and therefore few if any channels are available for a new connection it is generally undesirable for wireless communication devices to transmit channel requests. A base station may use access restriction data to reduce the number of wireless communication devices making channel requests within a given time period. Additionally in this manner a large number of wireless communication devices may be rejected by one paging message and or access message . For example more than four wireless communication devices can be rejected by one access message . Additionally one to four wireless communication devices can also be rejected by one access message .

A controller e.g. an electronic processor may be coupled to and control the operation of a receiver a pager a message generator and a transmitter . The controller may obtain instructions stored in a memory .

The receiver may receive priority data . For example the priority data may be provided by a part of the wireless communication system that manages or monitors the network e.g. a system controller . In one configuration a system controller may provide the priority data to the receiver . In this example the system controller monitors the number of available unused channels and is responsive to changes to the number of available unused channels. In one configuration when the number of available unused channels drops below a specified number the system controller may provide the priority data to the receiver .

The priority data may include a set of priority values. When the base station obtains a set of priority values the message generator may generate access restriction data that indicates the set of priority values. For example if a network has eight different priority levels the priority data may specify that priority values of 1 7 are present on the network. As another example the priority data may also specify that all wireless communication devices with priority levels of 5 or higher be restricted from accessing the network. In other words in one example wireless communication devices with a priority value of 1 4 may access the network while wireless communication devices with a priority value of 5 8 may be restricted from accessing the network. In one configuration the priority data may include a priority level that will provide for optimal use of the network s resources. For example the system controller can determine the optimal use of the network resources and therefore instruct the base station accordingly. For instance based on the level of network congestion the system controller may determine that only wireless communication devices with a certain priority level may access the network.

As another example five classes of wireless communication devices may exist with each class having a different associated priority value. The priority data may indicate that multiple e.g. two priority values in a set of priority values correspond with two of the five classes of wireless communication devices . Thus upon receiving a message e.g. a paging message and or an access message that includes access restriction data the two groups of wireless communication devices with the corresponding priority values may become restricted from communication channel access. In this way the use of priority value sets may give greater flexibility to a base station in restricting access to a communication channel because access may be restricted for multiple classes or types of wireless communication devices . This is because different subsets of wireless communication devices in the wireless communication system may have different associated priority values and one or more groups of wireless communication devices may be restricted by the base station using a single message.

The priority data may include a priority value that is associated with at least one wireless communication device . In one configuration the priority data may include only a single priority value indicating low priority . For example there may be two states of congestion in a network congested and not congested. The presence of priority data may indicate that the network is congested. Alternatively the priority data may serve to indicate one or more priority values from a set of priority values.

The priority data may indicate that a communication channel is congested. For example the priority data may include information indicating that access to a communication channel by wireless communication devices should be restricted. For instance the priority data may include a priority value that indicates which wireless communication devices should be restricted from access the communication channel.

The information in the priority data may indicate a congestion condition of a network e.g. network . In one configuration this may be accomplished by using a flag having two states indicating congested or uncongested . The base station may treat the congested flag as an indication that access to the communication channel is to be restricted for wireless communication devices having a low priority value associated with them. In other words the base station may send a message to wireless communication devices having a low priority value associated with them. The message may specify that the wireless communication devices are restricted from accessing the communication channel. In some configurations when a wireless communication device obtains an uncongested flag it may try to access the communication channel regardless of its priority value. In other configurations the absence of a congested flag may indicate that any wireless communication device may try to access the communication channel regardless of its priority value.

Additionally the priority data may serve to indicate a set of priority values. In this case the priority data serves to indicate that access to the communication channel is to be restricted for wireless communication devices with a priority value in the set of priority values.

In some configurations the priority value may be indicated by a combination of one or more bits. For example three bits of the priority data may provide one of up to eight priority values.

The priority data may be stored in a database or a memory not shown elsewhere in the network and provided to the receiver . For example the priority data may be stored in the system controller and provided by the system controller to the receiver .

In some configurations the base station may store the priority values obtained from the priority data in the memory . In this case the priority values may be provided to the message generator by the controller . Using the stored priority values the receiver may be pre configured to operate accordingly without receiving additional priority values. In this manner the base station may receive data indicating a congestion condition of the network such as traffic control data and generate a message based on that received data.

As an example the base station may receive a data flag indicating a congestion condition of the network. The controller may send a priority value based on the received data to the message generator . The message generator may generate a message with access restriction data . The access restriction data may indicate to wireless communication devices that access to the communication channel is restricted.

The message generator may be coupled to the receiver the transmitter the pager and the controller . The message generator may receive the priority data from the receiver . The message generator may use the priority data to generate a message that includes access restriction data . As discussed above access restriction data is data that includes one or more priority values. If a wireless communication device has a matching priority value to one in the access restriction data the wireless communication device may be restricted from accessing the communication channel.

In one configuration the access restriction data may indicate one or more wireless communication devices that are restricted from accessing a communication channel using the priority values in the access restriction data . In one example if the access restriction data does not include a specific priority level the access restriction data is in effect addressed to all wireless communication devices that can receive the access restriction data . Alternatively the access restriction data may be addressed to all wireless communication devices having a specific priority value.

The message generated by the message generator may be a paging message and or an access message . The paging message and the access message may each be transmitted by the transmitter .

The message generator may also generate access restriction data that indicates a time interval during which some wireless communication devices have restricted access to a communication channel. For example a wireless communication device may receive a paging message and or access message that includes access restriction data restricting the wireless communication device from accessing a communication channel. The wireless communication device may respond by waiting for a period of time during which the wireless communication device will not request access. For example the period of time may be a range of 1 to 120 seconds a range of 1 to 60 minutes a range of 1 to 24 hours a range of 1 to 15 days or variations thereof. Once the period of time has elapsed the wireless communication device may then again request access to a communication channel.

The wireless communication device may determine the period of time spent waiting based on a time interval indicated by the access restriction data . In one embodiment of the present invention the period of time the wireless communication device waits may be determined by generating a random time interval based on the time interval indicated by the access restriction data . The time interval indicated by the access restriction data may be a time interval range.

The time interval may be stored in the memory and provided to the message generator by the controller . Alternatively the receiver may provide the time interval directly to the message generator . The time interval may be received by the receiver separately or along with the priority data . For example the time interval and the priority data may both be received from another device on the network such as the system controller .

The time interval may be one of a set of time intervals. For example the time interval may be a short time interval e.g. seconds or a longer time interval e.g. minutes hours or days . Such different time intervals allow the network to choose time intervals that are appropriate for various situations. For example a shorter time interval is more appropriate when congestion is low whereas a longer time interval is more appropriate when congestion is greater. When the time interval includes only one time interval the message generator may generate the access restriction data to indicate the one time interval.

The time interval indicated by the message generator may be a range of time intervals. For example the access restriction data may include information that indicates the time interval as a range of 1 to 120 seconds a range of 1 to 60 minutes a range of 1 to 24 hours a range of 1 to 15 days or variations thereof. A wireless communication device that receives a paging message and or access message that includes access restriction data indicating a time interval range may then select a time interval from the indicated time interval range. For example the access restriction data may indicate the time interval as a range of time intervals between 1 minute and 60 minutes. The wireless communication device may select a value from this range e.g. 5 minutes . Various criteria may be used by the wireless communication device to select the value. For example the wireless communication device may select the value using a random selection from the range of time intervals such as by means of a random number generation algorithm. This may help to ensure fairness in the assignments of channels between multiple wireless communication devices over a time period.

The communication channel indicated may be an access channel. Access to the communication channel may be restricted based on the access restriction data . A wireless communication device may request access to the access channel by means of signaling. The communication channel may be an uplink and or a downlink dedicated channel used to transfer useful data between wireless communication devices and one or more base stations of the wireless communication system .

The communication channel may also include a plurality of dedicated channels that are available for use by wireless communication devices in the wireless communication system . The access restriction data may indicate that wireless communication devices that have the priority value associated with them have restricted access to any of the plurality of dedicated channels during a time interval. For example the access restriction data may indicate that access is restricted to all dedicated channels usable by wireless communication devices for the time interval. A wireless communication device receiving the paging message and or access message that has the priority associated with a priority value in the received message may respond by delaying any attempt by the wireless communication device to access a dedicated channel during the time interval.

The pager may be coupled to the message generator . In one configuration the pager may receive the access restriction data from the message generator . The pager may generate a paging message that includes the access restriction data . The paging message may be addressed to at least one wireless communication device that are associated with the priority value.

In one embodiment of the present invention the transmitter may be coupled to the pager . The transmitter may transmit the paging message via a paging channel. The paging channel may be a signaling channel that is also a broadcast channel. A broadcast channel is used to send signaling data in the form of broadcast messages to one or more wireless communication devices .

In some configurations the paging channel is suitable for paging wireless communication devices that are in a set of wireless communication devices . The pager may address the paging message to only a subset of the set of wireless communication devices . By using a paging channel the network has the ability to control access of a group of wireless communication devices to the network. For example the receiver may receive data indicating a paging group that corresponds to the subset or group of wireless communication devices . Wireless communication devices listening to messages addressed to a particular paging group will have restricted access to the communication channel. For example those wireless communication devices listening to paging messages addressed to the particular paging group will be prevented from accessing the network for a specified time period.

The base station can address the paging message to one paging group or multiple paging groups . This allows different subsets of wireless communication devices to be prevented from accessing the network at different times. It also allows access to be controlled so that different numbers of wireless communication devices make access attempts during different time periods. Because the paging group can include a large number of wireless communication devices it is possible to restrict access to the communication channel for a large number of wireless communication devices using a single paging message .

The base station may include access restriction data in the paging message . The access restriction data may be addressed to a wireless communication device within a paging group . In other words a paging message with access restriction data may be addressed to a wireless communication device within a paging group .

The pager and the transmitter may transmit the paging message during a paging occasion which is a time interval associated with the paging group . Such a paging occasion typically repeats periodically.

Wireless communication devices may switch to an idle mode for example to conserve power . During idle mode wireless communication devices generally do not transmit or receive data. However wireless communication devices may activate i.e. switch from idle mode to active mode upon receiving a page. In other words wireless communication devices in a paging group that are in idle mode may activate their receivers to listen to the paging channel during the paging occasion.

The transmitter may be coupled to the message generator . The transmitter may transmit the access message . As discussed above the access message may be generated by the message generator and may include the access restriction data . The access message may be transmitted via the downlink access channel. The downlink access channel may be a signaling channel that is also a broadcast channel.

It should be understood that although the paging message and or access message are generally transmitted in response to access data being received by the receiver the paging message and or access message may be transmitted independently of any access request data . In this case the function of the paging message and or access message does not include either granting or refusing access to the communication channel by a wireless communication device that has requested access. That is the paging message and or access message may be transmitted either in response to a channel request received from a wireless communication device requesting access or independent of any channel request.

In one embodiment of the present invention when a wireless communication device wants to connect to the communication channel the wireless communication device begins preparations to send a channel request message to the base station . The wireless communication device may also activate a receiver to listen to the downlink access channel for the request to be granted or denied. The wireless communication device continues to listen to the downlink access channel until at least the end of a time period after the transmission of the channel request.

The access restriction data may be effectively addressed to all wireless communication devices that can receive and process a message transmitted on the downlink access channel. However only those wireless communication devices that are listening to the downlink access channel will actually process access restriction data that is received. In this manner while only one wireless communication devices makes a request to access the communication channel multiple wireless communication devices that receive and process the paging message and or the access request message along with the access restriction data may be restricted from accessing the communication channel.

The receiver may also receive access request data transmitted by a wireless communication device via an uplink access channel. The access request data serves to request access to a dedicated channel e.g. a voice channel or another type of dedicated channel . The receiver may provide the received access request data to the message generator . In some instances this may be done under the control of the controller . The message generator may generate access grant data based on the access request data .

The receiver also receives traffic control data from one or more other elements of the network such as the system controller and provides the traffic control data to the controller . The traffic control data may include information about traffic in the wireless communication system . This traffic information can include the status of traffic such as traffic congestion levels. The traffic information may also include one or more commands provided by the system controller . Such a command may for example serve to indicate that congestion is at a particular level.

The controller may instruct the message generator to generate a paging message and or access message based on the access request data and or the traffic control data . The paging message and or access message may be directed to a wireless communication device that has transmitted a channel request that includes the access request data received by the receiver .

The controller may instruct the transmitter to transmit a paging message and or access message that includes the access grant data. In some cases this may depend on the traffic control data . The paging message and or access message may be transmitted via the downlink access channel to grant or refuse access to a wireless communication device that has transmitted a channel request with the access request data . The paging message and or access message may include either an access grant message or an access reject message

Access request data may be provided to the transmitter from the receiver via the message generator . Access request data may be included in a message generated by the message generator i.e. the paging message and or access message . The paging message and or access message may serve to grant or refuse access to the wireless communication device that has requested access.

The base station may also receive dedicated data such as traffic data. The receiver may provide the received dedicated data to the transmitter under the control of the controller . The dedicated data may be provided to the receiver by another part of the wireless communication system such as the system controller . The transmitter may then transmit the dedicated data as transmitted dedicated data via a downlink dedicated channel. The transmitted dedicated data may be received by one or more wireless communication devices .

The receiver and message generator may be included within the TX Data Processor . The controller and the memory may correspond to the controller processor and the memory discussed in connection with respectively.

The priority value may be indicated by a combination of one or more bits. The priority value may be received by a part of the wireless communication network such as from the system controller . The system controller may monitor the number of available unused channels. The system controller may be responsive to the number of available unused channels. The system controller may provide the priority value to a base station to indicate that access is to be restricted for low priority wireless communication devices when the number of available channels drops below a specified number.

In one embodiment of the present invention the obtained priority value may indicate a congestion condition of the network. For example a flag having two states may indicate the presence congested as true or false. The priority value may also serve to indicate that access to the communication channel is to be restricted for low priority wireless communication devices .

The base station may generate a message with access restriction data . The message may be addressed to one or more wireless communication devices . The message may be based on the obtained priority value. The access restriction data may indicate a group of wireless communication devices associated with the priority value. The access restriction data may also indicate that the group of wireless communication devices is to have restricted access to a communication channel. In other words the access restriction data indicates that wireless communication devices that have a priority value associated with them have restricted access to the communication channel. The message may be a paging message or an access message .

In some configurations the priority value indicates low priority as compared to high priority and the access restriction data therefore indicates that wireless communication devices that have the low priority value associated with them have restricted access to the communication channel. The communication channel may be an uplink channel used to transfer data from wireless communication devices to base stations of the wireless communication system .

The base station may transmit the message to the wireless communication device . The message may be a paging message and or an access message . The message may include the access restriction data . The access restriction data may be addressed to at least one wireless communication device having the priority value associated with it.

In one embodiment of the present invention an addressed wireless communication device may belong to a paging group . A paging group is a group of wireless communication devices to which the paging message is addressed. The paging message may be transmitted via a paging channel.

In some configurations an addressed wireless communication device may be accessible via an access channel. In other words the access message may be transmitted via the access channel.

The base station may generate a message with a portion of the message having a rest octets information element that includes access restriction data . The access restriction data may address one or more wireless communication devices . Rest octets information elements are information elements transmitted in a compressed form e.g. Concrete Syntax Notation One CSN.1 . Rest octets information elements will be described below in additional detail in connection with Listings 1 10 .

The base station may provide a time interval during which wireless communication devices associated with the priority value have restricted access. In one embodiment of the present invention the base station may provide the time interval in the access restriction data . The time interval may be one of a set of time intervals. For example the time interval may be a short time interval e.g. seconds or it may be a longer time interval e.g. minutes hours or days . Such different time intervals allow the network to choose time intervals that are appropriate for various situations. For example a shorter time interval is more appropriate when congestion is low whereas a longer time interval is more appropriate when congestion is greater.

The base station may determine if the message is a paging message or an access message . If the message is a paging message the base station may transmit the paging message on a paging channel. If the message is an access message the base station may transmit the access message on an access channel.

The wireless communication device may receive and process a paging message and or access message . For example the paging message and or access message may be received from a base station . In one embodiment of the present invention the paging message and or the access message may be received by the paging access receiver . The paging access receiver may be included within the RX data processor discussed in connection with .

The controller may control operation of the paging access receiver the channel access module and the access restrictor . The controller may obtain instructions stored in the memory . The controller and the memory may correspond to the controller processor and the memory discussed in connection with respectively.

The paging access receiver may receive the access message via the downlink access channel. The paging access receiver may receive the paging message via the paging channel. The received message i.e. paging message and or access message may include the access restriction data . The access restriction data may indicate a priority value that restricts access for the wireless communication device to a communication channel . In other words if a wireless communication device has a priority value associated with it that matches the priority value indicated in the access restriction data then the wireless communication device may have restricted access to the communication channel .

The communication channel can be any channel used for communication between the wireless communication device and the wireless communication system . Typically the communication channel is a traffic channel such as a dedicated channel as discussed above.

In one embodiment of the present invention the access restriction data may include information e.g. a flag having one or more bits that has one two or more priority values. One value may indicate a first priority value and another value may indicate a second priority value. Alternatively the mere presence of the access restriction data may serve to indicate a priority value e.g. low priority . In this case the access restriction data serves to indicate that wireless communication devices with low priority have restricted access to the communication channel .

The channel access module may be coupled to the controller and the access restrictor . The channel access module may allow the wireless communication device to access the communication channel . For example the channel access module may include a receiver and or a transmitter to receive and transmit signals via the communication channel . The communication channel may be a downlink channel or an uplink channel.

The access restrictor is coupled to the channel access module and to the paging access receiver . The access restrictor may restrict or suspend access to the communication channel by the channel access module based on the indication provided by the access restriction data received in the paging message and or access message . The access restrictor thus prevents the channel access module from accessing the communication channel based on the access restriction data . For example the access restrictor may instruct the channel access module to disable the receiver and or transmitter of the channel access module . This allows the channel access module to consume less power and reduce congestion of the communication channel .

The wireless communication device may include a stored priority value within the memory . The access restrictor may compare the stored priority value with the priority value indicated by the access restriction data within the paging message and or access message . The access restrictor may restrict and or suspend access to the communication channel by the wireless communication device when the priority value indicated by the access restriction data includes the stored priority value.

In one embodiment of the present invention the wireless communication device may receive both the priority value in the access restriction data and an assigned priority value. The assigned priority value may be assigned by the system controller for example. The assigned priority value may be stored on the wireless communication device as the stored priority value and used by the access restrictor . For example the assigned priority value may be included in the paging message and or access message or in another message addressed to the wireless communication device . The message may assign an updated priority value to the wireless communication device . Additionally the assigned priority value may be addressed to one or more wireless communication devices .

In one embodiment of the present invention the channel access module may access a communication channel . For example the channel access module may transmit signals via an uplink communication channel. The channel access module may include a transmit data source and a transmitter for transmitting uplink data in an uplink signal via the uplink communication channel .

The access restrictor may suspend or restrict the channel access module from accessing the communication channel by preventing the channel access module from transmitting the uplink data . In one configuration the access restrictor may disable the transmit data source in the channel access module preventing the transmit data source from providing transmit data to the transmitter . In another configuration the access restrictor may disable the transmitter preventing the transmitter from transmitting uplink data . In yet another configuration the access restrictor may disable both the transmit data source and the transmitter thus saving resources and reducing power consumption of the channel access module .

The transmit data source may include a message generator for generating uplink data such as an access request message . The access request message may request access to a communication channel from a base station . In other words the wireless communication device may request access to the communication channel by sending an access request message to the base station .

The wireless communication device may transmit the access request message as uplink data via the uplink communication channel . If there is no reply from the base station multiple access request messages may be sent. However if the wireless communication device receives access restriction data that instruct the wireless communication device to suspend access requests the access restrictor may prevent the channel access module from transmitting access request messages and or from sending the uplink data via the uplink communication channel .

A receiver may be coupled to the controller and the channel access module . The receiver may receive downlink data directed to the wireless communication device via a downlink communication channel . In one configuration the access restrictor may de activate the receiver . In this manner resource usage in the wireless communication device may be reduced. De activating the receiver may also reduce processing and power consumption in the receiver .

Both the paging access receiver that receives the paging message and or access message and the receiver that receives the downlink data may be part of a single receiver controlled by the controller . In other words the single receiver may receive the paging message and or access message and downlink data .

In one embodiment of the present invention the access restrictor may deactivate the receiver during the time interval for which access to the communication channel is restricted. The wireless communication device may determine the period of time the wireless communication device is to spend waiting based on the time interval indicated by the access restriction data . In one configuration the period of time the wireless communication device waits may be determined by generating a random time value based on the time interval indicated by the access restriction data .

The controller may be coupled to and may control the paging access receiver the receiver the access restrictor the transmit data source and the transmitter . The controller may obtain instructions from the memory . The controller and the memory may correspond to the controller processor and the memory discussed in connection with respectively.

The wireless communication device may receive a message that includes access restriction data . The message may be a paging message and or an access message .

The wireless communication device may obtain a priority value from the access restriction data . The access restriction data may indicate a priority value that is associated with a wireless communication device or a group of wireless communication devices . In other words the priority value may indicate that access to a communication channel is to be restricted for wireless communication devices having an associated priority value. In some configurations the presence of the priority value itself may indicate a low priority value e.g. that access to the communication channel is to be restricted and or suspended .

The wireless communication device may determine from the priority value if it is part of a group of wireless communication devices that has restricted access to a communication channel . In some configurations the access restriction data may not be addressed to any specific wireless communication device or any group of wireless communication devices . As a result the access restriction data is in effect addressed to all wireless communication devices that can receive the access restriction data .

The wireless communication device may restrict access to the communication channel . Restriction may be based on the indication provided by the access restriction data . In one configuration one group of wireless communication devices with a lower priority value may restrict and or suspend access to the communication channel while another group of wireless communication devices with a higher priority level may be granted access.

The wireless communication device may receive a message. The message may be a paging message and or an access message . A portion of the message may have a rest octets information element that includes access restriction data . Rest octets information elements will be described below in additional detail in connection with Listings 1 through 10 .

The wireless communication device may obtain a priority value from the access restriction data . The wireless communication device may determine from the priority value if it is part of a group of wireless communication devices that has restricted access to a communication channel. The group of wireless communication devices may include one or more wireless communication devices . In some configurations the group of wireless communication devices may be a paging group .

The wireless communication device may obtain from the access restriction data a time interval during which access is restricted. For example access to the communication channel may be temporarily restricted and or suspended for the group of wireless communication devices for a period of time. The time interval may be indicated by the message. In some configurations the time interval may be a set of various time interval ranges. For example the message may include access restriction data that indicates the time interval as a range of 1 to 120 seconds a range of 1 to 60 minutes a range of 1 to 24 hours a range of 1 to 15 days etc.

The wireless communication device may determine a value of time within the time interval to restrict access to the communication channel. For example the wireless communication device may determine the value of time the wireless communication device spends waiting. The value of time may be based on the time interval indicated by the access restriction data . In one configuration the value of time the wireless communication device waits may be determined by generating a random time interval based on the time interval indicated by the access restriction data . In one embodiment of the present invention the time interval indicated by the access restriction data may be a time interval range.

The wireless communication device may restrict access to the communication channel . The restriction may be based on the indication provided by the access restriction data . For example the wireless communication device may be restricted from making requests to access the communication channel for a period of time e.g. value of time . The period of time may the value of time determined by the wireless communication device .

The wireless communication device may remove the access restriction to the communication channel when the determined value of time has passed. i.e. elapsed . In other words once the value of time determined by the wireless communication device has elapsed the wireless communication device may again request access to the communication channel . In this way network congestion to the communication channel may be reduced. Additionally processing and power consumption of the wireless communication device may also be reduced.

The systems and methods described herein can be applied to a wireless communication system that operates according to GSM EDGE Radio Access Network GERAN standards. For example a group of wireless communication devices can be controlled even if they have not made an access attempt i.e. transmitted a channel request message . In this manner un necessary access attempts by devices that would be rejected by the network anyway due to congestion of the network may be avoided.

A wireless communication device of a GERAN wireless communication system may transmit a channel request message via an access channel known as a random access channel RACCH . The access restriction data may be added to one or more of the following paging and or access messages as rest octets information elements.

In some configurations paging rest octets information elements may be added to a paging message . These rest octets information elements may include PAGING REQUEST TYPE 1 message rest octets PAGING REQUEST TYPE 2 message rest octets and or PAGING REQUEST TYPE 3 message rest octets. Known paging request type 1 2 and 3 rest octets are detailed in specification 3GPP TS 44.018 Release 9 section 10.5.2.

The access restriction data may act as rejection data and may deny access to one or more wireless communication devices . Under this approach the network can prevent wireless communication devices from initiating access and can avoid unnecessary use of the random access channel.

The maximum time to deliver the reject information to the devices is governed by the paging period used in the cell which can range from 480 milliseconds to 2118 milliseconds. The minimum time can be 20 milliseconds i.e. the time it takes to deliver the paging message .

Details of the paging request rest octets information elements are provided in greater detail below. For each rest octets information element a pseudo code listing is given that describes the components of the rest octets information element.

The PAGING REQUEST TYPE 1 message rest octets P1 Rest Octets information element includes information about the status of information on an existing notification channel NCH priority levels notification and packet page indications applied for mobile station identities Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service MBMS Notifications a segment of an Earthquake and Tsunami Warning System ETWS Primary Notification message and spare bits.

The P1 Rest Octets information element is a type 5 information element with 0 17 octets length. The P1 Rest Octets information element is listed in pseudo code in Listing 1 below. Note that modifications are denoted in bold type face. Listing 1 

Listing 1 includes REJECT ALL LOW PRIORITY DEVICES which is a 2 bit field. The presence of this field implies that all low priority devices that are making or attempting to make access are rejected and these devices are to wait for a random period defined as shown in Table 1 below.

The PAGING REQUEST TYPE 2 message rest octets P2 Rest Octets information element includes information on the channel needed by the network and information about the status of information on an existing notification channel NCH priority levels and packet page indications applied for mobile station identities Multimedia Broadcast Multicast Service MBMS Notification and spare bits.

The P2 Rest Octets information element is a type 5 information element with 1 11 octets length. The P2 Rest Octets information element is listed in pseudo code in Listing 2 below. Note that modifications are denoted in bold type face. Listing 2 

Listing 2 includes REJECT ALL LOW PRIORITY DEVICES which is a 2 bit field. The presence of this field implies that all low priority devices that are making or attempting to make access are rejected and these devices are to wait for a random period defined as shown in Table 2 below.

The PAGING REQUEST TYPE 3 message rest octets P3 Rest Octets information element includes information on the channel needed by the network and information about the status of information on an existing notification channel NCH priority levels applied for mobile station identities and spare bits. The purpose of the spare bits is to allow the upward compatible introduction of new information on the paging channel PCH in later phases.

The P3 Rest Octets information element is a type 5 information element with 3 octets length. The P3 Rest Octets information element is listed in pseudo code in Listing 3 below. Note that modifications are denoted in bold type face. Listing 3 

Listing 3 includes REJECT ALL LOW PRIORITY DEVICES which is a 2 bit field. The presence of this field implies that all low priority devices that are making or attempting to make access are rejected and these devices are to wait for a random period defined as shown in Table 3 below.

In addition to the approach described above for each paging rest octets P1 Rest Octets P2 Rest Octets and P3 Rest Octets alternative approaches may be employed. One alternative approach is for the network to signal which priority group or access group are rejected from making an access attempt. This approach may also be applied with P1 Rest Octets and P2 Rest Octets. Listing 4 below illustrates in pseudo code how this alternative approach is applied to the P3 Rest Octets information element to produce a modified P3 Rest Octets information element. The pseudo code listings for the P1 and P2 Rest Octets information elements can be modified in a similar fashion. Note that modifications are denoted in bold type face. Listing 4 

Listing 4 includes REJECT ALL PRIORITY X DEVICES which is a 2 bit field. The presence of this field implies that all priority x devices that are making or attempting to make access are rejected and these devices are to wait for a random period defined as shown in Table 4 below. The value of x is 0 . . . n .

Another alternative approach is for the network to signal which priority group or access group are rejected from making an access as shown below. This approach can also be applied with P1 Rest Octets and P2 Rest Octets. The pseudo code listing in Listing 5 below illustrates how this alternative approach is applied. Note that modifications are denoted in bold type face. Listing 5 

Listing 5 includes REJECT PRIORITY which is a 3 bit field. The code of this 3 bit field is as defined as shown in Table 5 below.

Listing 5 also includes REJECT PERIOD which is a 2 bit field. The code of this 2 bit field is as defined as shown in Table 6 below.

In some configurations access assignment rest octets information elements may be added to an access message . These rest octets information elements may include IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT REJECT message rest octets IAR Rest Octets IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT EXTENDED message rest octets IAX Rest Octets and or IMMEDIATE ASSIGNMENT message rest octets IA Rest Octets . Known access assignment request type 1 2 and 3 rest octets are detailed in specification 3GPP TS 44.018 Release 9 section 10.5.2. Access assignment messages are used to restrict access to a communication channel by only devices that have recently made access attempts or are in the process of making an access attempt.

The immediate assignment reject message rest octets IAR Rest Octets information element includes spare bits or possibly Extended RA information. The IAR Rest Octets is a type 5 information element with 3 octets length. The IAR Rest Octets information element is listed in pseudo code in Listing 6 below.

Listing 6 includes REJECT ALL LOW PRIORITY DEVICES which is a 2 bit field. The presence of this field implies that all low priority devices that are making or attempting to make access are rejected and these devices are to wait for a random period defined as shown in Table 7 below.

An alternative approach to reject devices with a specific priority or access class is shown below in Listing 7 . Note that modifications are denoted in bold type face. Listing 7 

Listing 7 includes REJECT ALL PRIORITY x DEVICES which is a 2 bit field. The presence of this field implies that all priority x devices that are making or attempting to make access are rejected and these devices are to wait for a random period defined as shown in Table 8 below. The value of x is 0 . . . n .

Another alternative approach to reject devices with a specific priority or access class is shown below in Listing 8 . Note that modifications are denoted in bold type face. Listing 8 

Listing 8 includes REJECT PRIORITY which is a 2 bit field. The code of the 2 bit field is as defined as shown in Table 9 below.

Listing 8 also includes REJECT PERIOD which is a 3 bit field. The code of this 3 bit field is as defined as shown in Table 10 below.

The immediate assignment extended message rest octets IAX Rest Octets information element is coded according to the syntax specified below in Listing 9 and as described in 3GPP TS 44.018 Table 10.5.2.18.1. The IAX Rest Octets information element is a type 5 information element with 0 4 octets length. Note that modifications are denoted in bold type face. Listing 9 

Listing 9 includes REJECT ALL LOW PRIORITY DEVICES which is a 2 bit field. The presence of this field implies that all low priority devices that are making or attempting to make access are rejected and these devices are to wait for a random period defined as shown in Table 11 below.

Alternative approaches similar to Listings 7 8 discussed in conjunction with IAR Rest Octets to reject devices with specific priority or access class may also be employed.

The immediate assignment message rest octets IA Rest Octets information element includes spare bits and possibly either a packet uplink assignment construction a packet downlink assignment construction a second part packet assignment construction frequency parameters before time or a multiple blocks packet downlink assignment construction. The frequency parameters before time construction combines a mobile allocation see sub clause 10.5.2.21 and a mobile allocation index offset MAIO .

The IA Rest Octets information element is coded according to the syntax specified below in Listing 10 and as described in 3GPP TS 44.018 Table 10.5.2.16.1. The IA Rest Octets information element is a type 5 information element with 0 11 octets length. Note that modifications are denoted in bold type face. Listing 10 

Listing 10 includes REJECT ALL LOW PRIORITY DEVICES which is a 2 bit field. The presence of this field implies that all low priority devices that are making or attempting to make access are rejected and these devices are to wait for a random period defined as shown in Table 12 below.

The base station also includes memory . The memory may be any electronic component capable of storing electronic information. The memory may be embodied as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices in RAM on board memory included with the processor EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers and so forth including combinations thereof.

Data and instructions may be stored in the memory . The instructions may be executable by the processor to implement the methods disclosed herein. Executing the instructions may involve the use of the data that is stored in the memory . When the processor executes the instructions various portions of the instructions may be loaded onto the processor and various pieces of data may be loaded onto the processor .

The base station may also include a transmitter and a receiver to allow transmission and reception of signals to and from the base station . The transmitter and receiver may be collectively referred to as a transceiver . An antenna may be electrically coupled to the transceiver . The base station may also include not shown multiple transmitters multiple receivers multiple transceivers and or additional antennas.

The base station may include a digital signal processor DSP . The base station may also include a communications interface . The communications interface may allow a user to interact with the base station .

The various components of the base station may be coupled together by one or more buses which may include a power bus a control signal bus a status signal bus a data bus etc. For the sake of clarity the various buses are illustrated in as a bus system .

The wireless communication device also includes memory . The memory may be any electronic component capable of storing electronic information. The memory may be embodied as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM magnetic disk storage media optical storage media flash memory devices in RAM on board memory included with the processor EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers and so forth including combinations thereof.

Data and instructions may be stored in the memory . The instructions may be executable by the processor to implement the methods disclosed herein. Executing the instructions may involve the use of the data that is stored in the memory . When the processor executes the instructions various portions of the instructions may be loaded onto the processor and various pieces of data may be loaded onto the processor .

The wireless communication device may also include a transmitter and a receiver to allow transmission and reception of signals to and from the wireless communication device via an antenna . The transmitter and receiver may be collectively referred to as a transceiver . The wireless communication device may also include not shown multiple transmitters multiple antennas multiple receivers and or multiple transceivers.

The wireless communication device may include a digital signal processor DSP . The wireless communication device may also include a communications interface . The communications interface may allow a user to interact with the wireless communication device .

The various components of the wireless communication device may be coupled together by one or more buses which may include a power bus a control signal bus a status signal bus a data bus etc. For the sake of clarity the various buses are illustrated in as a bus system .

The techniques described herein may be used for various communication systems including communication systems that are based on an orthogonal multiplexing scheme. Examples of such communication systems include Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA systems Single Carrier Frequency Division Multiple Access SC FDMA systems and so forth. An OFDMA system utilizes orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM which is a modulation technique that partitions the overall system bandwidth into multiple orthogonal sub carriers. These sub carriers may also be called tones bins etc. With OFDM each sub carrier may be independently modulated with data. An SC FDMA system may utilize interleaved FDMA IFDMA to transmit on sub carriers that are distributed across the system bandwidth localized FDMA LFDMA to transmit on a block of adjacent sub carriers or enhanced FDMA EFDMA to transmit on multiple blocks of adjacent sub carriers. In general modulation symbols are sent in the frequency domain with OFDM and in the time domain with SC FDMA.

In the above description reference numbers have sometimes been used in connection with various terms. Where a term is used in connection with a reference number this is meant to refer to a specific element that is shown in one or more of the Figures. Where a term is used without a reference number this is meant to refer generally to the term without limitation to any particular Figure.

The term determining encompasses a wide variety of actions and therefore determining can include calculating computing processing deriving investigating looking up e.g. looking up in a table a database or another data structure ascertaining and the like. Also determining can include receiving e.g. receiving information accessing e.g. accessing data in a memory and the like. Also determining can include resolving selecting choosing establishing and the like.

The phrase based on does not mean based only on unless expressly specified otherwise. In other words the phrase based on describes both based only on and based at least on. 

The term processor should be interpreted broadly to encompass a general purpose processor a central processing unit CPU a microprocessor a digital signal processor DSP a controller a microcontroller a state machine and so forth. Under some circumstances a processor may refer to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a programmable logic device PLD a field programmable gate array FPGA etc. The term processor may refer to a combination of processing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The term memory should be interpreted broadly to encompass any electronic component capable of storing electronic information. The term memory may refer to various types of processor readable media such as random access memory RAM read only memory ROM non volatile random access memory NVRAM programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM flash memory magnetic or optical data storage registers etc. Memory is said to be in electronic communication with a processor if the processor can read information from and or write information to the memory. Memory that is integral to a processor is in electronic communication with the processor.

The terms instructions and code should be interpreted broadly to include any type of computer readable statement s . For example the terms instructions and code may refer to one or more programs routines sub routines functions procedures etc. Instructions and code may include a single computer readable statement or many computer readable statements.

The functions described herein may be implemented in software or firmware being executed by hardware. The functions may be stored as one or more instructions on a computer readable medium. The terms computer readable medium or computer program product refers to any tangible storage medium that can be accessed by a computer or a processor. By way of example and not limitation a computer readable medium may include RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and Blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. It should be noted that a computer readable medium may be tangible and non transitory. The term computer program product refers to a computing device or processor in combination with code or instructions e.g. a program that may be executed processed or computed by the computing device or processor. As used herein the term code may refer to software instructions code or data that is are executable by a computing device or processor.

Software or instructions may also be transmitted over a transmission medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of transmission medium.

The methods disclosed herein include one or more steps or actions for achieving the described method. The method steps and or actions may be interchanged with one another without departing from the scope of the claims. In other words unless a specific order of steps or actions is required for proper operation of the method that is being described the order and or use of specific steps and or actions may be modified without departing from the scope of the claims.

Further it should be appreciated that modules and or other appropriate means for performing the methods and techniques described herein such as those illustrated by and can be downloaded and or otherwise obtained by a device. For example a device may be coupled to a server to facilitate the transfer of means for performing the methods described herein. Alternatively various methods described herein can be provided via a storage means e.g. random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a physical storage medium such as a compact disc CD or floppy disk etc. such that a device may obtain the various methods upon coupling or providing the storage means to the device. Moreover any other suitable technique for providing the methods and techniques described herein to a device can be utilized.

It is to be understood that the claims are not limited to the precise configuration and components illustrated above. Various modifications changes and variations may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the systems methods and apparatus described herein without departing from the scope of the claims.

