---

title: Device abstraction proxy
abstract: Described are systems and methods for implementing and operating a Device Abstraction Proxy (DAP). In one embodiment, the DAP includes a communications interface to connect the DAP to one or more access aggregation devices, each having a plurality of physical ports to provide Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) communication services to a plurality of remote DSL terminals via the plurality of physical ports. The DAP may further include a memory and processor to execute a virtual access aggregation device, in which a subset of the plurality of physical ports are allocated and linked to corresponding logical ports. The DAP may further include a global rule-set module to define operational constraints for the DSL communication services, and a management interface to allow at least one broadband access management system to manage the subset of physical ports allocated to the virtual access aggregation device subject to the operational constraints.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09374240&OS=09374240&RS=09374240
owner: Adaptive Spectrum and Signal Alignment, Inc.
number: 09374240
owner_city: Redwood City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120911
---
This application is a divisional of and claims priority to U.S. National Phase application Ser. No. 13 511 632 filed on Nov. 2 2010 entitled DEVICE ABSTRACTION PROXY which was filed under 35 U.S.C. 371 off of International Application No. PCT US2010 055173 filed Nov. 2 2010 also entitled DEVICE ABSTRACTION PROXY and is related to and claims priority to the provisional utility application entitled DEVICE ABSTRACTION PROXY filed on Nov. 2 2009 having an application No. of 61 257 402 and the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The subject matter described herein relates generally to the field of computing and more particularly to Device Abstraction Proxy DAP systems and methods for implementing and operating Device Abstraction Proxies.

The subject matter discussed in the background section should not be assumed to be prior art merely as a result of its mention in the background section. Similarly a problem mentioned in the background section or associated with the subject matter of the background section should not be assumed to have been previously recognized in the prior art. The subject matter in the background section merely represents different approaches which in and of themselves may also correspond to embodiments of the claimed subject matter.

Many end user consumers including residential consumers and business consumers connect to the Internet by way of Digital Subscriber Line DSL technologies. With DSL technologies a service provider provides its end users with Internet bandwidth at least a portion of which is carried over copper twisted pair telephone lines. The use of twisted pair telephone lines to deliver Internet bandwidth to an end user is beneficial because such lines are commonly pre existing in a potential end user s location and thus activating service does not required expensive retrofitting of a potential end user s location with a communication medium to connect the end user s location to a service provider.

The present state of the art may benefit from the Device Abstraction Proxy systems and methods which are described herein.

Described herein are Device Abstraction Proxy DAP systems and methods for implementing and operating Device Abstraction Proxies. In one embodiment such a Device Abstraction Proxy includes a communications interface to connect the Device Abstraction Proxy to one or more access aggregation devices each having a plurality of physical ports to provide Digital Subscriber Line DSL communication services to a plurality of remote DSL terminals via the plurality of physical ports. In such an embodiment the Device Abstraction Proxy further includes a memory and processor to generate create instantiate and or execute a virtual access aggregation device in which a subset of the plurality of physical ports are allocated to the virtual access aggregation device and linked to corresponding logical ports within the virtual access aggregation device. Such a Device Abstraction Proxy further includes a global rule set module to define operational constraints for the DSL communication services and a management interface to allow at least one broadband access management system to manage the subset of physical ports allocated to the virtual access aggregation device subject to the operational constraints.

In some locations a DSL services wholesaler provides DSL communication equipment to form an infrastructure for such services and DSL services resellers sell DSL services e.g. Internet access delivered over that infrastructure to individual consumers or end users. Because the DSL services wholesaler controls the equipment forming the DSL infrastructure and the DSL services reseller maintains a services relationship with the consumers conflicts exist between a DSL services wholesaler s interest in protecting the integrity of the infrastructure and a DSL services reseller s desire to access and control the equipment in the interest of ensuring optimum service quality to the end users that the reseller is responsible for.

These conflicts are exacerbated when multiple DSL services resellers operate and compete for end users in the same geographical area and in turn must co exist on the DSL services wholesaler s common infrastructure equipment because each of the competing DSL services resellers have an interest in optimizing the quality of service provided to their own end user consumers even if doing so may be to the detriment of end user consumers associated with a competing DSL services reseller. Practicing the systems and methods described herein may permit and promote competition among DSL services resellers including DSL services wholesalers who also act as DSL services resellers without degrading the underlying infrastructure upon which DSL communication services are offered to consumers.

Broadband communications services providers are increasingly utilizing network architectures in which the so called last mile connection is a copper fiber or cable connection with one endpoint at a services subscriber s premises and another endpoint at an access aggregation device located in a street cabinet or vault in the general vicinity of the subscriber s premises. The access aggregation device may be for example a DSL Access Multiplexer DSLAM a cable head end or a fiber optic splitter. The access aggregation device is in turn connected to a broadband core network via a second broadband link for example a fiber optic link.

Some broadband DSL services providers operate their own access aggregation devices such as DSLAMs connected to the copper loop that extends to a subscriber s premises. However other broadband DSL services providers do not own the copper loop such as when the broadband DSL services provider is a Competitive Local Exchange Carrier CLEC in the United States. Such broadband DSL services providers may instead pay a rental fee to the owner of the copper loops that extend to each of the broadband DSL services provider s customers. For several reasons including space constraints in street cabinets and vaults it may be impractical for the access aggregation devices of multiple broadband providers to be installed in the street cabinets and vaults that are increasingly becoming the standard location for access aggregation devices.

Accordingly a business model for the delivery of broadband services is now evolving in which a wholesaler deploys and operates the equipment such as access aggregation devices in the street cabinets and vaults and then resells ports to resellers who deliver broadband services to subscribers via physical ports on the wholesaler s access aggregation devices. With this model multiple broadband DSL services providers can compete for subscribers over a common infrastructure owned and operated by a single wholesaler responsible for the underlying equipment that makes up the broadband communication infrastructure.

Using the systems and methodologies described herein administrative authority for controlling certain events and controlling a portion of the functionality of an access aggregation device may be retained by for example a DSL services wholesaler having responsibility for the equipment constituting the DSL communication infrastructure while administrative authority for controlling other events and controlling other functions of an access aggregation device may be delegated to a DSL services reseller that is responsible for a portion of the end user consumers that are provided Internet bandwidth over the DSL services wholesaler s equipment. Moreover the physical ports at multiple access aggregation devices can be abstracted and then represented to a DSL services reseller as one virtual access aggregation device within a Device Abstraction Proxy thus providing a more convenient and intuitive representation for the DSL services reseller.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth such as examples of specific systems languages components etc. in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that these specific details need not be employed to practice the disclosed embodiments. In other instances well known materials or methods have not been described in detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the disclosed embodiments.

In addition to various hardware components depicted in the figures and described herein embodiments further include various operations which are described below. The operations described in accordance with such embodiments may be performed by hardware components or may be embodied in machine executable instructions which may be used to cause a general purpose or special purpose processor programmed with the instructions to perform the operations. Alternatively the operations may be performed by a combination of hardware and software including software instructions that perform the operations described herein via memory and one or more processors of a computing platform.

Embodiments also relate to a system or apparatus for performing the operations herein. The disclosed system or apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory computer readable storage medium such as but not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards or any type of media suitable for storing non transitory electronic instructions each coupled to a computer system bus. In one embodiment a non transitory computer readable storage medium having instructions stored thereon causes one or more processors within a Device Abstraction Proxy to perform the methods and operations which are described herein. In another embodiment the instructions to perform such methods and operations are stored upon a non transitory computer readable medium for later execution.

The algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus nor are embodiments described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the embodiments as described herein.

The G.997.1 standard specifies the physical layer management for ADSL transmission systems based on the clear Embedded Operation Channel EOC defined in G.997.1 and use of indicator bits and EOC messages defined in G.992.x standards. Moreover G.997.1 specifies network management elements content for configuration fault and performance management. In performing these functions the system utilizes a variety of operational data which includes performance data that is available at an Access Node AN .

In users terminal equipment e.g. a Customer Premises Equipment CPE device or a remote terminal device is coupled to a home network which in turn is coupled to a Network Termination NT Unit . ADSL Transceiver Units ATU are further depicted e.g. a device that provides ADSL modulation of a DSL loop or line . In one embodiment NT unit includes an ATU R ATU Remote for example a transceiver defined by one of the ADSL standards or any other suitable network termination modem transceiver or other communication unit. NT unit also includes a Management Entity ME . Management Entity can be any suitable hardware device such as a microprocessor microcontroller or circuit state machine in firmware or hardware capable of performing as required by any applicable standards and or other criteria. Management Entity collects and stores among other things operational data in its Management Information Base MIB which is a database of information maintained by each ME capable of being accessed via network management protocols such as Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP an administration protocol used to gather information from a network device to provide to an administrator console program or via Transaction Language 1 TL1 commands TL1 being a long established command language used to program responses and commands between telecommunication network elements.

Each ATU R in a system may be coupled with an ATU C ATU Central in a Central Office CO or other central location. ATU C is located at an Access Node AN in Central Office . An Management Entity likewise maintains an MIB of operational data pertaining to ATU C . The Access Node may be coupled to a broadband network or other network as will be appreciated by those skilled in the art. ATU R and ATU C are coupled together by a loop which in the case of ADSL may be a twisted pair line such as a telephone line which may carry other communication services besides DSL based communications.

Several of the interfaces shown in are used for determining and collecting operational data. The Q interface provides the interface between the Network Management System NMS of the operator and ME in Access Node . Parameters specified in the G.997.1 standard apply at the Q interface . The near end parameters supported in Management Entity may be derived from ATU C while far end parameters from ATU R may be derived by either of two interfaces over the UA interface. Indicator bits and EOC messages may be sent using embedded channel and provided at the Physical Medium Dependent PMD layer and may be used to generate the required ATU R parameters in ME . Alternately the operations Administration and Maintenance OAM channel and a suitable protocol may be used to retrieve the parameters from ATU R when requested by Management Entity . Similarly the far end parameters from ATU C may be derived by either of two interfaces over the U interface. Indicator bits and EOC message provided at the PMD layer may be used to generate the required ATU C parameters in Management Entity of NT unit . Alternately the OAM channel and a suitable protocol can be used to retrieve the parameters from ATU C when requested by Management Entity .

At the U interface also referred to as loop there are two management interfaces one at ATU C the U C interface and one at ATU R the U R interface . Interface provides ATU C near end parameters for ATU R to retrieve over the U interface loop . Similarly U R interface provides ATU R near end parameters for ATU C to retrieve over the U interface loop . The parameters that apply may be dependent upon the transceiver standard being used for example G.992.1 or G.992.2 . The G.997.1 standard specifies an optional Operation Administration and Maintenance OAM communication channel across the U interface. If this channel is implemented ATU C and ATU R pairs may use it for transporting physical layer OAM messages. Thus the ATU transceivers and of such a system share various operational data maintained in their respective MIBs.

As used herein the terms user subscriber and or customer refer to a person business and or organization to which communication services and or equipment are and or may potentially be provided by any of a variety of service provider s . Further the term customer premises refers to the location to which communication services are being provided by a service provider. For an example Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN used to provide DSL services customer premises are located at near and or are associated with the network termination NT side of the telephone lines. Example customer premises include a residence or an office building.

As used herein the term service provider refers to any of a variety of entities that provide sell provision troubleshoot and or maintain communication services and or communication equipment. Example service providers include a telephone operating company a cable operating company a wireless operating company an internet service provider or any service that may independently or in conjunction with a broadband communications service provider offer services that diagnose or improve broadband communications services DSL DSL services cable etc. . A DSL services wholesaler and a DSL services reseller are described in more detail with respect to the figures that follow.

Additionally as used herein the term DSL refers to any of a variety and or variant of DSL technology such as for example Asymmetric DSL ADSL High speed DSL HDSL Symmetric DSL SDSL and or Very high speed Very high bit rate DSL VDSL . Such DSL technologies are commonly implemented in accordance with an applicable standard such as for example the International Telecommunications Union I.T.U. standard G.992.1 a.k.a. G.dmt for ADSL modems the I.T.U. standard G.992.3 a.k.a. G.dmt.bis or G.adsl2 for ADSL2 modems I.T.U. standard G.992.5 a.k.a. G.adsl2plus for ADSL2 modems I.T.U. standard G.993.1 a.k.a. G.vdsl for VDSL modems I.T.U. standard G.993.2 for VDSL2 modems I.T.U. standard G.994.1 G.hs for modems implementing handshake and or the I.T.U. G.997.1 a.k.a. G.ploam standard for management of DSL modems.

References to connecting a DSL modem and or a DSL communication service to a customer are made with respect to exemplary Digital Subscriber Line DSL equipment DSL services DSL systems and or the use of ordinary twisted pair copper telephone lines for distribution of DSL services it should be understood that the disclosed methods and apparatus to characterize and or test a transmission medium for communication systems disclosed herein may be applied to many other types and or variety of communication equipment services technologies and or systems. For example other types of systems include wireless distribution systems wired or cable distribution systems coaxial cable distribution systems Ultra High Frequency UHF Very High Frequency VHF radio frequency systems satellite or other extra terrestrial systems cellular distribution systems power line broadcast systems and or fiber optic networks. Additionally combinations of these devices systems and or networks may also be used. For example a combination of twisted pair and coaxial cable interfaced via a balun connector or any other physical channel continuing combination such as an analog fiber to copper connection with linear optical to electrical connection at an Optical Network Unit ONU may be used.

The phrases coupled to coupled with connected to connected with and the like are used herein to describe a connection between two elements and or components and are intended to mean coupled connected either directly together or indirectly for example via one or more intervening elements or via a wired wireless connection. References to a communication system are intended where applicable to include reference to any other type of data transmission system.

Each remote DSL terminal A G is connected to an access aggregation device A or B via one or more twisted pair lines e.g. POTS telephone lines pre existing telephone lines connecting the customer s physical service location to the access aggregation device A B DSL loops DSL lines etc. . Multiple twisted pair lines associated with different customer s remote DSL terminals may travel through or be co located within a common binder through which multiple twisted pair lines traverse in close proximity to one another. depicts the twisted pair lines connecting remote DSL terminals A B and C as all traversing the common binder .

Each access aggregation device A and B has multiple physical ports A G to which the twisted pair lines from remote DSL terminals A G are connected. For example as depicted remote DSL terminal A connects with physical port A of access aggregation device A remote DSL terminal B connects with physical port B remote DSL terminal C connects with physical port C. With respect to access aggregation device B remote DSL terminal D connects with physical port D remote DSL terminal E connects with physical port E remote DSL terminal F connects with physical port F and remote DSL terminal G connects with physical port G.

In one embodiment each of the plurality of access aggregation devices A B are Digital Subscriber Line Access Multipliers DSLAMs each having a respective plurality of physical ports e.g. physical ports A C correspond to DSLAM A and physical ports D G correspond to DSLAM B . In such an embodiment each DSLAM A B further includes a back haul communications interface to communicatively link each respective DSLAM A B to a wholesaler service provider . The wholesaler service provider may be co located with one or more of the connected access aggregation devices A B remotely located from each of the respective access aggregation devices A B or co located with some of the connected access aggregation devices A B and remotely located from other connected access aggregation devices A B. In one embodiment one or more access aggregation devices A B are co located at a physical central office CO location which also contains other equipment operated by the wholesaler . Each access aggregation device A B connected to the DSL services wholesaler via the broadband link or a back haul is provided with Internet connectivity from the DSL services wholesaler which is then in turn distributed to the various remote DSL terminals A G.

In one embodiment a Device Abstraction Proxy includes a communications interface to connect the Device Abstraction Proxy to a plurality of remotely located access aggregation devices e.g. A and B and other various network elements making up a DSL wholesaler s infrastructure equipment. In one embodiment the communications interface connects with and communicates with the access aggregation devices e.g. A and B and other network elements via network cloud . For example network cloud may be Internet connectivity or Internet access over for example a publicly accessible network. Such communications may transmitted in a secure manner or communicated within a Virtual Private Network VPN over a publicly accessible network. In one embodiment each access aggregation device A B has a plurality of physical ports A G to provide Digital Subscriber Line DSL communication services to a plurality of remote DSL terminals A C via the plurality of physical ports. The DSL communication services may be administered and configured via the communications interface over network cloud .

In one embodiment the Device Abstraction Proxy includes a memory and processor to execute a virtual access aggregation device within the Device Abstraction Proxy . In such an embodiment a subset of the plurality of physical ports A G are allocated to the virtual access aggregation device and linked to corresponding logical ports F and G within the virtual access aggregation device . For example depicts physical ports F and G as having been allocated and linked to corresponding logical ports F and G within the virtual access aggregation device executing within the Device Abstraction Proxy as indicated by the curved broken lines from access aggregation device B to the virtual access aggregation device . Other variants are also feasible. For example in one embodiment all physical ports of a single physical access aggregation device are allocated to a single virtual access aggregation device and linked accordingly to logical ports thus presenting a single physical access aggregation device in a virtualized or abstracted manner via the virtual access aggregation device due to the 1 1 correspondence between physical and logical ports. Using such an approach a DSL services reseller may have administrative authority over multiple virtual access aggregation devices each having a 1 1 correspondence to a physical access aggregation device. Such a presentation may be employed to present each virtual access aggregation device so that it appears as though it is a real or physical DSLAM including the number of ports available via the virtualized access aggregation device. Multiple such virtual access aggregation devices may correspond to multiple distinct DSL services resellers each having responsibility for a subset of the total number of virtual access aggregation devices within the Device Abstraction Proxy . Alternatively all ports from multiple access aggregation devices may also be allocated to a single virtual access aggregation device. For example a DSL services reseller may have complete or exclusive control of multiple access aggregation devices and assign them to a single virtual access aggregation device. Many such permutations are permitted in accordance with the systems and methods described.

In one embodiment the Device Abstraction Proxy further includes a global rule set module to define operational constraints for the DSL communication services. For example DSL communication services e.g. access to Internet bandwidth provided to the various end user consumers via remote DSL terminals A G may be restricted in such a way that they must conform with operational constraints which are defined by the global rule set module .

In a particular embodiment a DSL services wholesaler has administrative authority over the Device Abstraction Proxy and controls the Device Abstraction Proxy via a control interface . In one embodiment control interface connects with and communicates with DSL services wholesaler over network cloud . In such a way the DSL services wholesaler may control configure administer and otherwise interact with the Device Abstraction Proxy in accordance with the systems and methods described herein. In some embodiments the DSL services wholesaler may be co located with the Device Abstraction Proxy and communicate with the Device Abstraction Proxy via control interface over network cloud e.g. via the Internet or via a Local Area Network LAN or other such communication network . In other embodiments the DSL services wholesaler is remotely located e.g. in a distinct physical local such as a different data center from the Device Abstraction Proxy and communicates with the Device Abstraction Proxy via control interface over network cloud for example via the Internet or via a Wide Area Network WAN etc.

In a particular embodiment a DSL services wholesaler has administrative authority over the Device Abstraction Proxy and controls the operational constraints defined by the global rule set module via control interface . In one embodiment the operational constraints defined by the global rule set module for the DSL communication services provided to end user consumers include one or more operational constraints selected from a group of operational constraints including allowed spectrum masks total power limits one or more allowed ranges of transmit power allowed minimum transmit power levels allowed Dynamic Spectrum Management DSM policy e.g. whether DSM must be activated or is optionally activated and whether DSM is utilized across physical ports associated with consumers of only one DSL services reseller or utilized across physical ports associated with consumers from multiple DSL services resellers an allowed number of distinct profiles provisioned on a per virtual access aggregation device basis e.g. how many discrete service levels are permissible for any given DSL services reseller having administrative authority over a particular virtual access aggregation device in which each profile defines operational characteristics for a respective logical port including at least transmit power data rate and error protection maximum allowed upstream aggregate bandwidth utilization on a per virtual access aggregation device basis and maximum allowed downstream aggregate bandwidth utilization on a per virtual access aggregation device basis.

In one embodiment the Device Abstraction Proxy includes a management interface to allow at least one broadband access management system to manage the subset of physical ports e.g. physical ports F and G allocated to a virtual access aggregation device e.g. A or B subject to the operational constraints imposed by a global rule set module . In one embodiment management interface connects with and communicates with the DSL services resellers A B via network cloud for example via the Internet.

In one embodiment the management interface of the Device Abstraction Proxy provides access capabilities to one or more broadband access management systems A or B of remotely located DSL services resellers A or B. In one embodiment the broadband access management system A or B is a remotely located client device operated by a DSL services reseller A or B. In such an embodiment the DSL services reseller A or B has administrative authority to manage a virtual access aggregation device e.g. A or B respectively within the Device Abstraction Proxy . For example depicts an embodiment in which physical ports F and G are allocated to virtual access aggregation device A and correspond to logical ports F and G of virtual access aggregation device A. further depicts physical ports C and E as being allocated to virtual access aggregation device B and thus linked to corresponding logical ports C and E of virtual access aggregation device B. In such an embodiment DSL services reseller A may be delegated administrative authority over virtual access aggregation device A and thus DSL services reseller A manages the subset of physical ports F and G associated with virtual access aggregation device A via its administrative authority to manage the corresponding logical ports F and G within the virtual access aggregation device A. DSL services reseller B may similarly be delegated administrative authority over virtual access aggregation device B so that it may manage its respective physical and logical ports in a similar manner.

In one embodiment the Device Abstraction Proxy further includes a memory and processor to execute the second virtual access aggregation device B. In one embodiment a second subset of the plurality of physical ports e.g. C and E non overlapping with a first subset of the plurality of physical ports e.g. F and G are allocated to the second virtual access aggregation device B and linked to corresponding logical ports C and E within the second virtual access aggregation device B via a provisioning module of the Device Abstraction Proxy .

In one embodiment administrative control of each respective access aggregation device A and B is allocated to a DSL services wholesaler having management responsibility for the respective access aggregation devices A and B and further having management responsibility for a corresponding back haul communications link providing each respective access aggregation device A and B with access to Internet bandwidth.

In such an embodiment administrative control of a first virtual access aggregation device e.g. A is allocated to a first DSL services reseller A having access to a first portion of the Internet bandwidth accessible via the plurality of access aggregation devices A and B for re sale to end user consumers and administrative control of a second virtual access aggregation device e.g. B is allocated to a second DSL services reseller B having access to a second portion of the Internet bandwidth accessible via the plurality of access aggregation devices A and B for re sale to end user consumers. In such an embodiment the first DSL services reseller A and the second DSL services reseller B may be separate and distinct business entities. For example each may be a business competitor of the other and each may compete for its share of available end user consumers on the basis of price service reliability speed etc. Although each DSL services reseller A and B may utilize the same underlying communication infrastructure equipment provided by the DSL services wholesaler each may seek to differentiate themselves in the marketplace by effecting varying configuration schemes within their respective virtual access aggregation device A B for which they have administrative authority. Such configurations may however be subject to operational constraints implemented by the DSL services wholesaler as defined by the global rule set module .

In one embodiment the Device Abstraction Proxy further includes a control interface to allow a DSL services wholesaler having administrative authority over the Device Abstraction Proxy to manage an operational configuration of the Device Abstraction Proxy . For example the control interface may allow the Device Abstraction Proxy to receive control messages and or instructions relating to the configuration of the Device Abstraction Proxy . Such control messages and or instructions may instruct the Device Abstraction Proxy to generate or instantiate a new virtual access aggregation device for execution within the Device Abstraction Proxy to support for example a new DSL services reseller. Such control messages and or instructions may instruct the Device Abstraction Proxy to allocate any of physical ports A G to an executing virtual access aggregation device or de allocate any of physical ports A G from an executing virtual access aggregation device . The control messages and or instructions may instruct the global rule set module to alter or re define the operational constraints placed upon DSL communication services rendered via the plurality of access aggregation devices A B connected with the Device Abstraction Proxy .

In one embodiment the Device Abstraction Proxy further includes a provisioning module to allocate the subset of physical ports e.g. subset F and G to the virtual access aggregation device A and to further link the subset of physical ports e.g. subset F and G to the corresponding logical ports e.g. F and G within the virtual access aggregation device e.g. A responsive to control messages and or instructions from the DSL services wholesaler received at the control interface .

In one embodiment the Device Abstraction Proxy further includes an authorization module to enforce the operational configuration of the Device Abstraction Proxy . Enforcing the operational configuration may include one or more operations selected from the group of enforcing management traffic rules enforcing service definition rules enforcing limits on data viewable by any DSL services reseller A B on a per virtual access aggregation device A B basis enforcing limits on logical port operations available to any DSL services reseller A B on a per virtual access aggregation device A B basis enforcing limits on available configuration options for the DSL communication services available to any DSL services reseller A B and enforcing limits on access to diagnostic information by any DSL services reseller A B on a per virtual access aggregation device A B basis responsive to control messages and or instructions from the DSL services wholesaler received at the control interface .

In one embodiment the management interface receives a request for operational data relating to DSL communication services provided to one or more of the remote DSL terminals A G. In such an embodiment the authorization module of the Device Abstraction Proxy may limit access to the operational data relating to the DSL communication services based on whether the one or more remote DSL terminals A G are associated with logical ports e.g. C E F or G allocated to a virtual access aggregation device A or B for which a requestor has administrative authority. For example in accordance with the embodiment set forth by if DSL services reseller A having administrative control over virtual access aggregation device A were to request information or operational data relating to physical ports C or E which are allocated to a different virtual access aggregation device such a request would be blocked denied restricted etc.

The authorization module of the Device Abstraction Proxy makes it possible for DSL services resellers to access diagnostic information over the management interface for equipment that is owned by a DSL services wholesaler . Such capabilities where not previously feasible because DSL services wholesalers are naturally reluctant to grant such access rights to another party. Problems arise due to such a lack of access in which a DSL services reseller who is responsible for diagnosing faults within a customer s home lacks the necessary information with which to perform the diagnosis of problems. Commonly a DSL services reseller mistakenly concludes that a fault is within the DSL communication infrastructure and thus the responsibility of the DSL services wholesaler . This creates unnecessary cost and delay and inevitably the DSL services wholesaler who traditionally has access to more extensive diagnostic information properly diagnoses the fault to be within a customer s home a diagnosis that a DSL services reseller may have correctly made had the DSL services reseller had access to the appropriate diagnostic information from the DSL services wholesaler s equipment.

Because the authorization module is able to limit the view to only that information associated with physical ports logical ports and DSL loops lines associated with a particular DSL services reseller e.g. via a virtual access aggregation device the DSL services wholesaler can grant access or delegate authority to retrieve pertinent diagnostic information without concern of a particular DSL services reseller having unfettered access or too great of access or control to the DSL services wholesaler s equipment.

An additional benefit of delegating some control to the virtual access aggregation devices yet subjecting such control to the operational constraints enforced by the authorization module is that DSL services resellers can differentiate themselves on more than simply price. For example a particular DSL services provider may be able to offer distinct configurations in accordance with the operational constraints set by a DSL services wholesaler that allow for example higher data rates higher data reliability lower latency lower access speeds for lower costs and so forth. This is distinguished from a traditional model in which a DSL services wholesaler may specify only two or three permitted configurations which are identical to all DSL services resellers renting leasing buying bandwidth access from the DSL services wholesaler . In such a way an improved competitive market place may be enabled.

The authorization module in conjunction with delegating certain administrative control to a virtual access aggregation device enables the DSL services resellers to 1 properly monitor their services so that they may ensure the service provided is in accordance with the level of service promised 2 diagnose faults more accurately and more quickly leading to reduced waste reduced operational costs and improved customer satisfaction 3 differentiate services and service quality from other competitors and 4 initiate provisioning of services to new customers through the resellers management interface which in turn relays such requests to the provisioning module under the control of a DSL services wholesaler .

In accordance with one embodiment the Device Abstraction Proxy further includes a Dynamic Spectrum Management DSM module to apply cooperative DSM optimization techniques against at least one logical port e.g. F or G of the first virtual access aggregation device A associated with the first reseller service provider A and against at least one logical port e.g. C or E of the second virtual access aggregation device B associated with the second reseller service provider B. In some embodiments DSM module applies cooperative DSM optimization techniques against only those lines belonging to a single virtual access aggregation device e.g. A such as logical ports F and G. In such an embodiment both logical ports are associated with physical ports e.g. F and G corresponding to a single access aggregation device G. Alternatively DSM module may apply cooperative DSM optimization techniques against only those lines belonging to a single virtual access aggregation device e.g. A where the logical ports within a single virtual access aggregation device e.g. logical ports C and E within virtual access aggregation device B correspond to physical ports on multiple access aggregation devices e.g. physical ports C and E on access aggregation devices A and B respectively .

Administrative authority to control the DSM module may be allocated to a DSL services wholesaler or allocated to one or more DSL services resellers A B or allocated to both the DSL services wholesaler and contemporaneously to one or more DSL services resellers A B. In an embodiment where administrative authority is allocated to both the DSL services wholesaler and to one or more DSL services resellers A B instructions commands and configurations of the DSL services wholesaler may take precedence over conflicting instructions commands and configurations issued by any DSL services reseller A B. For example an authorization module may enforce such precedence.

The DSM module provides DSL communication service optimization across multiple lines by adjusting various operational parameters applied to such lines. Such optimizations may for example reduce cross talk among lines traversing a common binder by reducing transmit power or assigning communication spectrums to the lines that are less likely to create interference noise which degrades service quality. These techniques may be considered to be applied to the twisted pair lines against the physical ports A G corresponding to a particular line or against the logical ports e.g. C E F or G associated with particular lines but in any event the DSM optimizations affect the underlying DSL communication services provided to DSL customers and end users via the remote DSL terminals A G. Changes to operational parameters to effect the DSM cooperative optimization techniques may be communicated to the global rule set module which defines operational constraints for the various DSL communication services and may further be enforced by the authorization module for any particular physical port logical port twisted pair line or combination of logical ports physical ports or twisted pair lines.

In one embodiment the Device Abstraction Proxy and the DSM module both operate under the administrative control of the DSL services wholesaler . In such an embodiment DSM optimizations may be applied across DSL communication services provided to DSL customers end users belonging to separate and distinct DSL services resellers A B. In an alternative embodiment the DSM module applies cooperative DSM optimization techniques against two or more logical ports within the same virtual access aggregation device A B. In such an embodiment the Device Abstraction Proxy may operate under the administrative control of a DSL services wholesaler while administrative control of the virtual access aggregation device e.g. A or B and the DSM module is delegated to a DSL services reseller A or B enabling a DSL services reseller A or B to specify the services to be delivered to its customers subject to the infrastructure operations rules and or operational constraints specified by DSL service wholesaler . Although administrative control of the DSM module may be delegated to a DSL services reseller A or B such administrative control may be restricted by authorization module so that any particular DSL services reseller A or B may only affect DSM optimization techniques for those logical ports that are allocated to a virtual access aggregation device A or B for which the DSL services reseller A or B also has complimentary administrative control.

In an alternative embodiment at least one of the DSL services resellers A or B further include a Dynamic Spectrum Management DSM module such as DSM module depicted within DSL services reseller A. Other DSL services resellers may also have similar DSM modules each of which may be communicatively interfaced with the Device Abstraction Proxy . In accordance with on embodiment a Dynamic Spectrum Management DSM module operates within a DSL services reseller A communicatively interfaced with the Device Abstraction Proxy and the DSM module performs one of the following cooperative DSM optimization techniques 1 the DSM module to apply DSM optimizations against at least one logical port e.g. F of the first virtual access aggregation device A associated with the DSL services reseller A and against at least one logical port e.g. C of a second virtual access aggregation device B associated with a second DSL services reseller B wherein the DSM module operates under the administrative control of a DSL services wholesaler 2 the DSM module to apply the DSM optimizations against at least two or more logical ports e.g. F and G each associated exclusively with the first virtual access aggregation A wherein the DSM module operates under the administrative control of the DSL services wholesaler and 3 the DSM module to apply the DSM optimizations against the at least two or more logical ports e.g. F and G each associated exclusively with the first virtual access aggregation device A wherein the DSM module operates under the administrative control of the DSL services reseller A having administrative authority for the first virtual access aggregation device A.

Regardless of whether a DSL services reseller or a DSL services wholesaler has administrative authority over a DSM module or and regardless of whether a DSM module operates within a DSL services reseller e.g. DSM module of DSL services reseller A or within a Device Abstraction Proxy e.g. DSM module of Device Abstraction Proxy the DSM optimization techniques may be applied to those lines corresponding to the customers of multiple DSL services resellers or in alternative embodiments DSM optimization techniques may be applied via a DSM module or against those lines corresponding to the customers of only one DSL services reseller so that any optimizations or changes to DSL communication services provided by the DSL services reseller affect only those customers of the one DSL services reseller. In some embodiments multiple DSM modules or operate to provide DSM optimization capabilities and each DSM module or operates on a per DSL services reseller basis so that each DSM module or provides DSM optimizations for at most one DSL services reseller.

In accordance with one embodiment the management interface implements an Application Programming Interface API in which the management interface presents each virtual access aggregation device e.g. A and B as an individual physical DSLAM device to DSLAM configuration tools via the API. The DSLAM configuration tools operated by a DSL services reseller A B may thus be utilized to access and interface with the virtual access aggregation devices e.g. A and B as though they were physical DSLAMs. In such a way DSL services reseller A B may continue to use existing interface tools and software to communicate with the Device Abstraction Proxy without having to develop or acquire new or different interfacing tools.

In one embodiment the API implemented by the management interface provides access to diagnostic information on behalf of the DSL services resellers on a per virtual access aggregation device basis via the management interface . For example although physical ports associated with a particular DSL services reseller may be spread across multiple separate and distinct access aggregation devices or DSLAMs diagnostic information may nevertheless be presented for one virtual access aggregation device as though all of the logical ports of the virtual access aggregation device were physical ports within one physical DSLAM. As noted above multiple virtual access aggregation devices per DSL services reseller is also provided for and thus in accordance with one embodiment the management interface provides access to diagnostic information on behalf of the DSL services resellers on a per DSL services reseller basis in which all virtual access aggregation devices associated with a particular DSL services reseller are provided to the appropriate DSL services reseller via the management interface .

In one embodiment diagnostic information is provided via the API of the management interface to a diagnostic system of a DSL services reseller to a DSL services wholesaler or to a vendor that provides one or more of the DSLAM devices e.g. access aggregation devices .

In one embodiment management interface communicates provisioning requests from DSL services resellers to a provisioning module of the Device Abstraction Proxy . Such provisioning requests may request that a physical port on one of the remotely located access aggregation devices to be allocated to a virtual access aggregation device associated with a requesting DSL services reseller .

In one embodiment management interface provides access to operational data and port status information subject to restrictions enforced by an authorization module of the Device Abstraction Proxy which operates under the administrative control of a DSL services wholesaler .

In one embodiment management interface implements a remote application programming interface R API or RAPI implements standard Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP interface using a similar SNMP schema as for physical access aggregation devices and further implements secure communication capabilities e.g. provided via for example Secure Sockets Layer SSL . DSL services resellers are accustomed to managing access aggregation devices using SNMP interfaces the availability of an SNMP interface for managing virtual access aggregation devices enables DSL services resellers to use the same management tools for managing virtual access aggregation devices as for managing physical access aggregation devices

In one embodiment control interface performs one or more of the following DSL services wholesaler operations including providing a management data interface to a wholesaler s management system including but not limited to at least one of the following interfacing to a Provisioning System Network Elements NEs interfacing to an Operations Support System OSS interfacing to an Element Management System EMS interfacing to a Network Management System NMS implementing aggregate traffic management operations against multiple virtual access aggregation devices operating within the Device Abstraction Proxy implementing traffic management operations on a per DSLAM basis or on a per access aggregation device basis in which the traffic management operations are effected against one of the plurality of remotely located physical access aggregation devices implementing vendor support operations that are applied against any of the remotely located physical access aggregation devices e.g. vendor support operations may be applied against one or more DSLAMs manufactured or supported by a particular DSLAM vendor implementing profile provisioning and selection operations on behalf of a DSL services wholesaler responsive to logical port configuration requests received from a DSL services reseller via the management interface and implementing wholesaler notification operations responsive to profile changes affecting one or more logical ports within any virtual access aggregation device executing within the Device Abstraction proxy and backing up and or restoring configuration information for physical DSLAMs communicatively interfaced via control interface . The preceding list is exemplary of the various operations permissible and should not be considered exhaustive.

Additionally depicted by is Database . In one embodiment database provides data support and storage for the Device Abstraction Proxy . For example database may provide physical port to reseller mapping or physical port to virtual access aggregation device mapping store rule definitions on behalf of the global rule set module store loop inventory information describing the available loops communicatively interfaced to the Device Abstraction Proxy through the plurality of remotely located access aggregation devices etc.

In some embodiments DSL services resellers may have a local replica of database having the corresponding Device Abstraction Proxy information stored therein. In such an embodiment the local replica may be limited or restricted to include only information associated with physical ports or logical ports to which a DSL services reseller has administrative control via a virtual access aggregation device .

In one embodiment the communications interface may include a southbound interface providing connectivity to the various network elements DSLAMs EMSs access aggregation devices and other such equipment that makes up the DSL services wholesaler s communications infrastructure. Control interface may sometimes be referred to as an operator facing northbound interface connecting an operator DSL services wholesaler to the Device Abstraction Proxy over which such an operator wholesaler may issue provisioning instructions alter a configuration of the Device Abstraction Proxy alter the rules and operational constraints defined by a global rule set module and so forth. Management interface may sometimes be referred to as a reseller facing northbound interface connecting the reseller service providers to the Device Abstraction Proxy.

The commands requests instructions and data communicated over communications Interface control interface and management interface as described herein may be received acknowledged and or transmitted using any of a variety of format s communication protocol s and or technique s including but not limited to Internet TCP IP UDP RTP Secure Socket Layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS Hyper Text Transport Protocol HTTP Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP Remote Procedure Call RPC methods TR 069 Broadband Forum Technical Report TR 069 and its variants etc. It is appreciated that other communication methods such as the public switched telephone network PSTN cellular data communications electronic mail communications USB and flash memory could also be used for the communications.

In one embodiment system includes a memory and a processor or processors . For example memory may store instructions to be executed and processor s may execute such instructions. Processor s may also implement or execute implementing logic having logic to implement the methodologies discussed herein. System includes communication bus es to transfer transactions instructions requests and data within system among a plurality of peripheral devices communicably interfaced with one or more communication buses . In one embodiment system includes a communication means to interface transfer transact relay and and or communicate information transactions instructions requests and data within system and among plurality of peripheral devices. System further includes management interface for example to receive requests return responses and otherwise interface with remote clients such as broadband access management systems A or B associated with DSL services resellers . System further includes control interface to communicate with and receive control messages and or instructions from a DSL services wholesaler responsive to which operational configurations or changes may be effected upon system . System further includes communications interface which provides connectivity between system and the various network elements DSLAMs access aggregation devices and other DSL communication infrastructure equipment operated by a DSL services wholesaler .

System further includes multiple stored profiles and rules that may be implemented or applied to various logical ports of system to provide DSL communication services to remotely located DSL terminals via remote access aggregation devices communicatively interfaced with system . The stored profiles and rules may be stored upon a hard drive persistent data store a database or other storage location within system .

Distinct within system is Device Abstraction Proxy which includes global rule set module authorization module provisioning module and DSM module . Device Abstraction Proxy may be installed and configured in a compatible system as is depicted by or provided separately so as to operate in conjunction with appropriate implementing logic or other software.

In accordance with one embodiment global rule set module defines rules or operational constraints as established by a DSL services wholesaler to be applied to one or more logical ports of system . Authorization module coordinates with global rule set module to ensure that defined operational constraints are enforced. Provisioning module effects configuration changes responsive to requests from DSL services wholesalers or from DSL services resellers subject to defined operational constraints. DSM module implements cooperative DSM optimization techniques under the administrative authority of either DSL services wholesalers DSL services resellers or both.

Method A begins with processing logic for communicably interfacing a Device Abstraction Proxy with one or more access aggregation devices each having a plurality of physical ports thereon block . In some embodiments one or more of the connected access aggregation devices are remotely located from a Device Abstraction Proxy and in other embodiments one or more of the access aggregation devices are co located with a Device Abstraction Proxy such as within the same data center. In one embodiment only one access aggregation device is communicably interfaced with a Device Abstraction Proxy. For example in such an embodiment a Device Abstraction Proxy and a physical access aggregation device such as a DSLAM may operate within the same physical computing device thus enabling the DSLAM access aggregation device to provide virtualized abstraction of its own physical ports so that aspects of administrative authority for the DSLAM access aggregation device may be delegated to for example a DSL services reseller. In other embodiments multiple access aggregation devices are communicably interfaced with a single Device Abstraction Proxy and one or more physical ports of each access aggregation device are represented via virtual abstraction devices of the Device Abstraction Proxy.

At block processing logic allocates a subset of the plurality of physical ports to the virtual access aggregation device executing within the Device Abstraction Proxy. In some embodiments the subset of physical ports allocated to the virtual access aggregation device includes one or more physical ports on a first remotely located access aggregation device and one or more physical ports on a second remotely located access aggregation device so that the subset of physical ports includes physical ports distributed amongst multiple access aggregation devices. At block processing logic links the allocated subset of physical ports to corresponding logical ports within the virtual access aggregation device.

At block processing logic provides a management interface to allow at least one broadband access management system of the DSL services reseller to manage the subset of physical ports allocated to the virtual access aggregation device.

Method B begins with processing logic at a DSL services reseller for accessing a Device Abstraction Proxy via a management interface API block .

At block processing logic sends a request via the management interface API from the DSL services reseller to the Device Abstraction Proxy to manage a logical port within a virtual access aggregation device of the Device Abstraction Proxy. The Device Abstraction Proxy correspondingly receives the request. The selected management function operation requested may include at least one of the following functions modifying and updating configuration resetting updating settings reading information sending commands sending and receiving diagnostics information and commands changing profiles. These management functions may be applied to the logical ports within the virtual access aggregation device through which they are in turn applied to correspondingly linked physical ports on the access aggregation devices associated with the DSL services reseller.

At block processing logic at the DSL services reseller receives notification via the management interface from the Device Abstraction Proxy that the management selection specified by the request complies with operational constraints. For example the Device Abstraction Proxy processes the request via an authorization module which determines that the management specified by the request complies with the plurality of operational constraints such as those defined by a global rule set module and enforced via an authorization module. If the requested management function operation selected does not comply it may be rejected completely or altered so that it is brought in line with an acceptable configuration in accordance with the plurality of operational constraints.

At block processing logic manages the logical port in accordance with the request. Management of the logical port within the virtual access aggregation device is reflected by a corresponding physical port linked to the logical port thus effecting the configuration onto the DSL communication services provided to a remote DSL terminal via the particular physical port linked to the logical port that was configured. For example managing the logical port as may include receiving a request to reset a physical port on one of the plurality of access aggregation devices or DSLAMs and processing the request accordingly. For example processing logic may reset a physical port requested to be reset when the physical port is determined to be allocated to a virtual access aggregation device for which a requestor has administrative control. In one embodiment if the requestor lacks administrative control over a virtual access aggregation device to which the physical port is allocated or if the physical port is in an unallocated state the request to reset the physical port is rejected by the Device Abstraction Proxy. In one embodiment a requestor may issue a reset all ports command or reset DSLAM command which would be implemented upon a virtual access aggregation device as a request to reset all the physical ports that are allocated to the particular virtual access aggregation device for which the requestor has administrative control. Similar determinations are made e.g. whether to execute a requested command or reject the request for port operations such as requests to enable a port disable a port solicit status of a port request diagnostic information for a specified port etc.

At block processing logic sends a request for diagnostic information to the Device Abstraction Proxy via the management interface and at block the DSL services reseller receives the requested diagnostic information from the Device Abstraction Proxy via the management interface. In such an embodiment the diagnostic information received may be limited by an authorization module of the Device Abstraction Proxy to a restricted filtered or limited view of all available diagnostic information for example diagnostic information may be limited to only information pertaining to virtual access aggregation devices over which the requesting DSL services reseller has administrative authority.

At block processing logic at a DSL services reseller applies Dynamic Spectrum Management optimization techniques. For example such techniques may be applied via a DSM module located within the DSL services reseller and operate under the administrative authority of the DSL services reseller or under the administrative authority of a DSL services wholesaler. Alternatively the DSM optimization techniques may be applied via a DSM module located within the Device Abstraction Proxy and operate under the administrative authority of the DSL services reseller or under the administrative authority of a DSL services wholesaler.

Method C begins with processing logic at a DSL services wholesaler for receiving a request from a DSL services reseller to provision a virtual access aggregation device DSLAM block . Alternatively a DSL services wholesaler may initiate provisioning absent a request from a DSL services reseller.

At block processing logic sends provisioning instructions from the DSL services wholesaler to the Device Abstraction Proxy via the control interface to provision the virtual access aggregation device DSLAM. The Device Abstraction Proxy correspondingly receives the provisioning instructions from the DSL services wholesaler to provision the virtual access aggregation device.

At block processing logic instantiates and executes or instructs the Device Abstraction Proxy to instantiate and execute the virtual access aggregation device via the control interface. The Device Abstraction Proxy correspondingly instantiates and executes the virtual access aggregation device as instructed by the DSL services wholesaler.

At block processing logic allocates administrative control of the virtual access aggregation device to a DSL services reseller via the control interface. In some embodiments administrative control of a DSM module for performing cooperative DSM optimization techniques may also be allocated to the DSL services reseller. In other embodiments administrative control of such a DSM module is retained within the exclusive control of a DSL services wholesaler having administrative authority for the Device Abstraction Proxy. In some embodiments a DSM module is located at a DSL services reseller yet operates under the control of the DSL services wholesaler or in alternative embodiments a DSM module at a DSL services reseller operates under the administrative authority of the DSL services reseller.

At block processing logic sends a request for diagnostic information to the Device Abstraction Proxy via the control interface and at block the DSL services wholesaler receives the requested diagnostic information from the Device Abstraction Proxy via the control interface.

At block processing logic at the DSL services wholesaler specifies configures or initiates Dynamic Spectrum Management optimization techniques to be applied to DSL communication services. For example such techniques may be applied via a DSM module located within a DSL services reseller which operates under the administrative authority of the DSL services reseller or under the administrative authority of the DSL services wholesaler which the DSL services wholesaler may control via the Device Abstraction proxy. Alternatively the DSM optimization techniques may be applied via a DSM module located within the Device Abstraction Proxy and operate under the administrative authority of the DSL services reseller or under the administrative authority of a DSL services wholesaler.

The exemplary computer system includes a processor a main memory e.g. read only memory ROM flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM such as synchronous DRAM SDRAM or Rambus DRAM RDRAM etc. static memory such as flash memory static random access memory SRAM volatile but high data rate RAM etc. and a secondary memory e.g. a persistent storage device including hard disk drives and persistent data base implementations which communicate with each other via a bus . Main memory includes information and instructions and software program components necessary for performing and executing the functions with respect to the various embodiments of the Device Abstraction Proxy described herein. For example stored rules and profiles specify operational constraints as defined by a global rule set module and enforced by an authorization module and stores profiles to be applied to physical logical ports thus establishing DSL communication services . Main memory further includes multiple logical ports to which physical ports are linked once allocated to a virtual device abstraction proxy. Main memory and its sub elements e.g. and are operable in conjunction with processing logic and processor to perform the methodologies discussed herein.

Processor represents one or more general purpose processing devices such as a microprocessor central processing unit or the like. More particularly the processor may be a complex instruction set computing CISC microprocessor reduced instruction set computing RISC microprocessor very long instruction word VLIW microprocessor processor implementing other instruction sets or processors implementing a combination of instruction sets. Processor may also be one or more special purpose processing devices such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a digital signal processor DSP network processor or the like. Processor is configured to execute the processing logic for performing the operations and functionality which is discussed herein.

The computer system may further include a network interface card . The computer system also may include a user interface such as a video display unit a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse and a signal generation device e.g. an integrated speaker . The computer system may further include peripheral device e.g. wireless or wired communication devices memory devices storage devices audio processing devices video processing devices etc. . The computer system may perform the functions of a Device Abstraction Proxy capable of provisioning virtual access aggregation devices configuring such virtual access aggregation devices and authorizing requested changes access to or configurations of virtual access aggregation devices including logical ports therein and defining enforcing operational constraints upon logical ports within the virtual access aggregation devices as well as the various other functions and operations described herein.

The secondary memory may include a non transitory machine readable storage medium or more specifically a non transitory machine accessible storage medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. Software may also reside or alternatively reside within main memory and may further reside completely or at least partially within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable storage media. The software may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface card .

While the subject matter disclosed herein has been described by way of example and in terms of the specific embodiments it is to be understood that the claimed embodiments are not limited to the explicitly enumerated embodiments disclosed. To the contrary the disclosure is intended to cover various modifications and similar arrangements as would be apparent to those skilled in the art. Therefore the scope of the appended claims should be accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications and similar arrangements. It is to be understood that the above description is intended to be illustrative and not restrictive. Many other embodiments will be apparent to those of skill in the art upon reading and understanding the above description. The scope of the disclosed subject matter is therefore to be determined in reference to the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

