---

title: Inbound call identification and management
abstract: Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer programs encoded on a computer storage medium, for inbound call identification and management. One of the systems includes one or more repositories that can include data representing call action policies and data representing attributes associated with the caller devices and the callee devices; and one or more computing devices that include a call identifier (“IDer”) configured to characterize the attributes of the caller devices to form characterized attributes, a call management system controller configured to match the characterized attributes against routing criteria specified in the data representing the call action policies, and a call management system router configured to route calls from the caller devices to the callee devices responsive to a match between the characterized attributes and the routing criteria.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08548143&OS=08548143&RS=08548143
owner: RingCentral, Inc.
number: 08548143
owner_city: San Mateo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120618
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 13 251 192 filed Sep. 30 2011 which is a continuation of U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 12 237 181 filed Sep. 24 2008 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 995 839 filed Sep. 28 2007 all of which is herein incorporated by reference in entirety for all purposes.

Embodiments of the invention relate generally to computing devices and systems as well as software computer programs applications and user interfaces and more particularly to systems devices and methods to identify inbound calls for dynamic routing of calls in a communication network for packetized and or synchronous communications and to manage the inbound calls.

Traditional phone handling techniques to process an incoming call are limited in capability. Presently calls can be routed to an alternate callee device such as a phone when the intended callee is unavailable. To provide for call rounding a callee typically configures a calling path by specifying an identifier for the alternate callee device such as a phone number that is to be used instead of a primary telephone number associated with primary called device. When a caller dials the primary telephone number the caller will be routed to the alternate callee device.

While traditional techniques for routing calls and electronic messages are functional there are certain drawbacks to these techniques. Common call routing techniques rely on limited information regarding a caller and minimal logic to determine how to route calls. Thus the rules for routing of calls can be relatively rigid thereby limiting the ability of a caller to be routed effectively to a callee. Further conventional call routing schemes are limited in conveying priorities of various incoming calls.

It would be desirable to provide computing devices and systems as well as software computer programs applications and user interfaces that minimize one or more of the drawbacks associated with conventional techniques for managing calls including incoming calls in communication network for packetized and or synchronous communications.

Like reference numerals refer to corresponding parts throughout the several views of the drawings. Note that most of the reference numerals include one or two left most digits that generally identify the figure that first introduces that reference number.

As used at least in some embodiments the term call attribute can refer to a characteristic of a caller a caller device e.g. phone computer etc or any user or device that interacts with call management system where the characteristic can be used by call management system to route a call determine the priority of a call convey the priority of the call or take any other action to facilitate call identification and management. Examples of call attributes include attribute which can describe an alternate caller name to replace an initial name associated with a caller ID number. As such call management system can apply an alternate caller name for display in connection with inbound calls. This functionality can be configured by for example a system administrator or a user e.g. at callee device . To illustrate consider that a user may want to replace the inbound caller name with preferred customer or with the label wife or with the text do not answer. Other examples of attributes include attribute which can specify a caller ID number or any other like identifier such as an email address messaging address and the like associated with caller device . Attribute can specify contact information that can be associated for example with a specific caller ID number. For example the specified contact information can include contact information or a pointer to contact information in an application for extracting that contact information from the application . An example of such contact information includes the contacts in the Outlook email program manufactured by Microsoft Call attributes can also include attribute to describe call history and related call information Attribute can specify spatial information such as a location of for example a caller device a callee device a user device and the like. Call management system can use the spatial information to determine appropriate call routing paths. For example call management system can be configured to route a call from a caller device to the nearest geographically located callee device Attribute n can describe an authorization code or PIN that can be used in association with inbound call to authorize answering of a call or any other attribute that can be used to characterize a call for routing the call.

Call management system controller is coupled to repository and call management system router which can be configured to route inbound call to an alternate callee device as a function of call action policies set forth in repository . As shown repository can be configured to store call action policies with the repository being disposed either in call management system not shown or external thereto. In this example repository maintains a set of rules Configurable Alert Rules for initiating customizable alerts and or notifications based on inbound call and call attributes . Examples of such notifications include electronic messages that can include audio or text and are transmitted to for example a callee when a condition is met. An electronic message then can alert a user that a caller is trying to communicate or has communicated with the callee. A notification message can be an SMS message to a mobile phone an email or the like with or with an attachment of the original message. Examples of configurable alert rules include rules for selectably generating unique notification rules for different forms of communications such as notification rules for voice messages fax messages incoming calls and outbound fax receipt confirmations and the like. Repository can maintain a set of rules distinctive ringing rules that are configured to vary a ring cadence at callee device as a function of priority. In some cases the ring cadence defines a ringing period as a sum of ringing duration and non ringing duration. In North America for example the default ring cadence is two seconds ringing and four seconds silence. When a caller ID is matched to a caller associated with inbound call then call management system can change the ring cadence to signal for normal escalated or other priority ringing according to default priority time of day and other user defined rules. In at least some embodiments the ring cadence can also refer to the general sound or any other perceptible indicator that a phone generates whereby the sound can be representative of the priority of the call as well as the type of call under which the call can be categorized e.g. the ring cadence can be varied as function of whether callers are seeking technical support sales or general information . A type of call can specify a priority set according to one of the following a default setting a time of day at least one user defined rule and the like.

Repository also can maintain a set of rules call routing rules for routing inbound call based on for example data related to inbound call as well as call attributes . In at least some embodiments call routing rules include sets of default rules DFLT and sets of customized rules CUST . As used herein the term default rule can refer at least in some embodiments to a rule that specifies relatively static actions that a call management system is to take to route a call for example in sequence or in parallel or in a combination thereof or to take a predetermined action in respect to the call. One example of a default rule i.e. default routing rule includes a rule to forward a call to a sequence of a callee devices should a preceding callee device not connect with the call. Another example of a default routing rule includes a rule to forward a call to a number of callee devices in parallel. In at least some embodiments a default routing rule can use an attribute such as attribute to route a call regardless of whether the attribute changes e.g. regardless of whether a value for the attribute changes . An example of a default rule i.e. a default action rule is to apply a predetermined call ringtone ring cadence or sound associated with a call. As another example call management system can map a caller ID e.g. attribute to a destination contact ID e.g. associated with attribute . In at least some embodiments the caller ID as specified by attribute can be associated with one or more destination contact IDs as specified by attributes . Thus if call management system is configured to route calls based on the caller ID then call management system can use for example a default routing rule to route calls to callee devices and that are associated with the one or more contact IDs. For example call identifier can operate to identify a caller ID associated with inbound call and indicate that the caller ID matches data representing attribute . Call management system then can determine whether data representing attribute is associated with data representing any of attributes . If so call management system controller can then apply call routing rules to implement a default routing behavior. In particular CMS router can be configured to route inbound call to the caller devices associated with one or more destination contact IDs associated with attribute . As destination contact IDs can include home phone numbers mobile phone numbers email addresses and the like inbound call can be routed to an alternate caller device which can be associated with a home phone number a mobile phone number an email address and the like. In at least some embodiments call management system can extract the one or more destination contact IDs from an email application or any other application that includes contact information. Note that while call management system can implement a default routing rule to statically route inbound call to a destination callee device specified by destination contact IDs call management system can implement a customized routing rule to dynamically bypass default routing rule to route to different destination contact IDs according to some embodiments.

As used herein the term customized rule can refer at least in some embodiments to a rule that specifies one or more actions that a call management system is to take dynamically to bypass a default rule and or its static routing path. In at least some embodiments a customized rule i.e. a customized routing rule can use one or more attributes to determine whether to bypass a default routing rule. Thus a customized routing rule can cause call management system to a route a call or take some dynamically determined action as a function of whether one or more attributes or values thereof meet a routing criterion defining a triggering condition. A triggering condition can be an event in which one or more attributes meet the routing criteria. Also a customized routing rule can cause call management system to a route a call a function of whether any of the attributes changes e.g. whether a value for an attribute changes . In at least some embodiments a customized routing rule can be configured to bypass a default routing rule during the pendency of a triggering condition after which the default routing rule can be used or reinstated. In some cases the term customized rule can be used interchangeably with the term dynamic rule. An example of a customized rule i.e. a customized action rule is a rule that dynamically applies a call ringtone ring cadence or sound associated with a call responsive to a determination based on attributes and criteria for triggering dynamic action implementation. A set of customized routing rules in call routing rules can be configured to route inbound call differently as a function of the endpoints at callee device s and or caller device s . Further these rules can set forwarding routes that can depend upon for example time of day endpoint availability e.g. whether a softphone application is on line presence status endpoint contact and call history with the inbound call. Examples of presence status can be detected include Session Initiation Protocol SIP presence messaging in which information about a callee s presence can be accessed by for example call management system via known protocols e.g. known integrated telephony and instant messaging contact lists .

In one embodiment the set of customized routing rules of call routing rules can cause inbound call which can be associated with an inbound caller ID to bypass some or all endpoints and ring specific other endpoints. For example a user may want calls from an executive to be directly routed to the user s cell phone thereby bypassing the called party s default routing rules that might otherwise route inbound call to an assistant. Further the set of call routing rules can be configured to escalate inbound call . For example a sequence of escalating call actions can be defined by for example the caller ID ANI caller history the time of day the call frequency or from any combination of conditions and or call attributes . For example if a caller calls twice within fifteen minutes the call identification system can escalate a subsequent call by connecting the caller to a support agent at for example alternate callee device rather than the intended recipient at callee device . Similarly if a caller calls after working hours and the caller is recognized then the call can be routed to an on call or available support person at for example alternate callee device .

Repository also can maintain a set of rules callee ringing group rules for routing inbound call based on for example data related to inbound call as well as on call attributes to a group of endpoints each of which can be similar to callee device . Call management system can be configured to notify one or more parties known as ringing groups about incoming and about answered calls. Ringing groups can be defined for example by a system administrator or by one or more users and can be dynamically reconfigured e.g. using customized routing rules or rules similar thereto depending upon time of day endpoint availability presence status endpoint call history and other information relating to inbound call . In one embodiment call management system can route a call e.g. associated with a customer having a relatively high priority to the nearest callee device in proximity to caller device or to endpoints within a geographic region. To illustrate consider that the data received by call management system represents longitudinal and latitudinal positions. Call management system then can determine whether the data representing the longitudinal and latitudinal positions matches any of attributes . If so CMS router can modify routing of inbound call based on call routing rules that specify how to dynamically route calls as a function of location. Further data received by call management system can specify the geographic location of callers and callees and can route calls based on the geographic regions as well as the callers and the callees relative locations to those regions. As another example inbound call can be routed to endpoints such as alternate callee device at which a person can speak a requested language or demonstrate some special skill. In one embodiment a destination contact ID can be associated with a group of endpoints whereby customizing the forwarding routes for one destination contact ID causes changes to the routes of inbound calls associated with the caller ID assigned to the one destination contact ID. Therefore call management system can specify routing calls to a specific destination phone number associated with a destination contact ID and data representing the destination phone number can be modified e.g. to substitute a new number without modifying the call routing rules .

In one embodiment call management system can use caller identification information to determine whether to require an answering party to enter an authorization code or personal identification number PIN . For example if a school administrator calls a parent s number when a party answers the call call management system can play a prompt to enter a PIN and compare the collected PIN against a set of allowed endpoint PINs such as those stored as attributes . This limits answering privileges to parents with PINs so that they can answer a call from the school. In some cases a system administrator or a user can assign answering authorization codes to inbound calls. A party or a machine that answers an inbound call can be prompted to enter their authorization code PIN too. In operation call management system can be configured to validate an entered PIN against stored pre approved PINs and can repeat the prompt when PIN validation fails. Call management system can be configured to play error messages hang up and or lock out return calls with endpoints that provide invalid PINs. The PIN authorization system can be applied to original forwarded transferred and conference calls. Minimally requesting a PIN from an answering device can eliminate connecting calls to fax voice mail pagers and other devices. Optimally requiring a pre authorized matching PIN confirms the answering party is allowed to talk with the calling party for example students can be connected only to pre approved contact people.

Note that network can include packet networks and switched networks as well as any other suitable communications network. For example private and or public internet and switching networks can be used such as IP networks including protocols TCP UDP HTTP etc. and switched networks including public switched telephone networks PSTN or the like as well as cellular e.g. digital cellular short message service SMS and other wireless networks. 

Call management system also can include one or more configuration tools including a Web Server to configure the rules for filtering announcing routing and completing calls. A computing device as a system administrator or an authorized user can configure web server to modify call action rules stored for example in repository and or database . As such computing device and or web server can maintain a Database or any other storage mechanism for storing system administrator rules and or end user defined rules. Examples of some tools that support inbound call identification include client applications such as contact management appointment and calendar systems any of which can be found in for example an email program.

Database can store call history information for each inbound call. For example database can maintain data representing a first party calling ID e.g. based on using ANI a type of endpoint associated with the first calling party such as a PSTN phone a second destination endpoint DNIS a result code e.g. indicating a recipient status if the call was connected or not connected and the result of each prior call e.g. whether the previous call history includes no answers at callee device of . Database can also be configured to retain customer credit information satisfaction information and other customer profile information associated with each inbound caller ID. Database also can store call transfer conferencing recording and customer feedback information.

In one embodiment Call Router can access Database for accessing default and dynamic routing rules. In particular Database can contain default routing rules and customized routing rules such as those that detail the priority order by which to route calls for example the time of day and other methods to ring each of the callee endpoints.

At the call management system receives an inbound call. For an inbound call the call management system identifies whether to apply custom call routing at as a function of routing criteria for example one or more attributes associated with a call. For example a call router can apply custom call routing upon matching an attribute associated with a call or caller such as a caller ID. If there is no match flow can move to to apply default routing rules. For example call router can apply the default call routing rules. But if there is a match that specifies call routing as a function of one or more attributes the call management system can update attributes regarding the call and or the caller to reflect for example that a pending call has been made at particular time that the call had been directed to a specific destination phone number or email address and the like. This information can form part of the call history that is maintained to guide pending and subsequent call routing. For example call router can revise data at the data being referenced by the caller ID data and or CNAM data CNAM refers to Calling NAMe and is a communication network service that displays the caller s name on the calling party s digital readout. . Thus call router can be configured to record call activity history among other things and then can optionally use the updated data e.g. updated attribute information associated with caller ID to access the Database to retrieve stored information and policies at . In various embodiments data representing a caller ID and data representing a CNAM can be presented to or associated with potential answering parties and as such a caller can be aliased for escalation purposes. For example the call management system can be configured to map an attribute e.g. caller ID to another attribute e.g. destination contact ID to dynamically retrieve multiple destination phone numbers from an application for purposes of call routing in accordance with one or more call routing policies. Examples of stored information and policies include caller history user defined call identification policies timers endpoint presence status and the like.

In at least some embodiments the stored information and policies can provide for dynamic modification of the call routing rules i.e. applying customized routing rules at so as to find a new endpoint to call at . From associated Database policies call router can escalate the call routing policy at thereby changing the inbound call priority. In at least some embodiments depending upon the call priority and call routing policy dynamic routing can be applied at to determine a modified call route for an incoming call where the dynamic call routing can be determined as a function of one or more attributes e.g. call priorities time of day location etc. . Depending upon the call priority and call routing policy call router can change the default ringing cadence to a custom distinctive ringing cadence at and assign to an endpoint a new ringing cadence ringing tone and or sound at from a collection of ring tone cadences or sounds representing prioritized calls.

At the call management system rings one or more endpoints. At the call management system can determine whether the endpoint answers. If it does then the call management system can be configured optionally to prompt the answering endpoint at to input a personal identification number PIN or input a name e.g. verbally or other identifying information. Data representing answering endpoint responses provided at can be compared to validation data in Database . Thus the call management system can validate whether entered data matches a valid PIN as well as analyze verbal inputs e.g. using speech recognition algorithms to match against expected responses. Or the caller responses can be presented to potential answering parties who can access the caller responses to determine whether to connect with the caller. Matching responses can connect the call to callee phone . Non matching responses can be directed to the call router where either additional endpoints can be called at or the calling party can be disconnected at .

But if a determination to use dynamic routing is made at customized routing rules are applied at . Flow then moves to to determine whether location based routing should be implemented. For example routing rules can be dynamically modified based on the caller s location one or more callee s location the distances between callers and callees and the like. If not then flow moves to to determine whether time based routing should be implemented at . For example default routing rules can be dynamically modified based on the time of day e.g. during business hours or after hours holidays weekend days vacation days and the like. If not then flow moves to to determine whether history based routing should be implemented. For example default routing rules can be dynamically modified based on a caller s call history during a time interval e.g. call routing can be dynamically modified if the caller calls a certain number of times in one day a caller s history of calls to a particular phone number e.g. representing a service and the like. If not then flow moves to to determine whether availability based routing should be implemented. For example default routing rules can be dynamically modified based on a callee s availability to receive a call e.g. whether a callee is present such as determined by SIP presence protocol whether the callee has set do not disturb on the callee device and other like conditions during which the callee may be unavailable . At a determination is made that the route that will be implemented e.g. as a result of passing through and . Note that in some embodiments a call management system can evaluate each of the types of routing conditions set forth in and and can select one or more routing bases by which to determine a route. For example a call management system can dynamically route calls based on both location based routing rule modifications and time based routing rule modifications whereby both can be applied in complementary fashion or one can take precedence or priority over the other. At a determination is made as to whether a call is pending. If so then call will be routed at otherwise flow will be repeated at to determine whether any routing criteria i.e. attributes specify whether to invoke default or dynamic routing.

In one embodiment caller device can be configured to generate location data such as geographic coordinates specifying the location or position of the device and transmit the data via networks and to call management system . As shown here caller device can use antenna to communicate with GPS satellites to generate data representing location or position information such as Cartesian coordinates other coordinate systems and the like. After generating location or position information caller device can then transmit location data as coordinates to call management system via network by GSM or transmit location data as coordinates to call management system via network by wireless LAN . In some examples location or position information may be translated and packaged according to various telecommunication protocols including TCP IP cellular protocols compatible for communication via the Code Division Multiple Access System CDMA GSM or the like and VoIP or others. In some embodiments call management system may be configured to extract and interpret coordinates associated with data coordinates associated with data and the like. Call management system may be configured to reconstruct inbound call data such as coordinates and coordinates . For example caller device can be configured to decompose data representing GPS data into relatively small sizes e.g. sizes from multiple bits to bytes that can be interleaved into packets e.g. TCP IP or GSM packets that are communicated to call management system which in turn can reconstruct the GPS data. Call management system then can use the call data to manage the dispatch or routing of the inbound call 

In one embodiment call management system can use caller location or position data to determine how to manage and handle an inbound call. Call management system may identify the location or position of the caller or inbound call and manage the inbound call by selecting any number of call action policies such as configurable alert rules distinctive ringing rules call routing rules or callee ringing group rules which can have similar structures and or functionalities as described in . In some cases call management system may apply different notifications or alerts alter ringing rules divert call routing or designate a ringing group based upon the geographic location of the caller. Note that in some embodiments callee device as well as caller device can include a CMS transceiver and a location determinator . CMS transceiver can be configured for example passively or proactively to transmit messages e.g. via SMS or other suitable messages including location data indicating the location of caller device to communication management system so that the location of caller device e.g. as a mobile phone can be considered in routing phone calls and other electronic messages 

As an example if a customer calls a taxi company to request transportation services the call management system can identify the caller s location and immediately and directly can contact the driver closest to or otherwise having easiest access route to the caller. If the driver closest to the caller does not respond or is not available call management system may then forward and direct the call to the next closest or otherwise most accessible driver and so on. As another example call management system may use caller s geographic location to route the call to a person who can speak a requested language or demonstrate a special skill. If a customer calls an international company from a particular location the call management system can identify the caller s location and route the call to a call center staffed with individuals who speak a similar language.

In some examples logic module can be configured to control panel generator to form a call management system configured to present call identification and management options to for example provide for customizable call routing. Rendering engine can be configured to operate as a layout engine for web pages for example to manipulate both content e.g. as expressed in or including HTML XML image files etc. and formatting information e.g. as expressed in or including CSS XSL etc. for rendering the data or information as one or more panels on interface . Interface module can exchange panel presentation data including content data image data audio data as well as other data between application and another application e.g. a host client web services based distributed i.e. enterprise application programming interface API operating system program procedure or others that can use data and information generated from panel generator to render presented panels on a display screen. In other examples the above described techniques and elements can be varied in design implementation and function and are not limited to the descriptions provided. In one embodiment logic module can include communication manager module that is configured to include structure and or functionality similar to one or more previously described communication management systems and or components thereof. For example logic module can also include a call identifier IDer module and a communication management system CMS controller module both of which can be configured to be accessed via an interface. For example call identifier IDer module can be accessed to create and to modify attributes used to identify calls and callers that can be subject to call routing policies and communication management system CMS controller module can be accessed to create and to modify rules and conditions used to route calls based on call routing policies that can be dynamically changed responsive to for example prioritized routing conditions 

In some examples logic module and panel generator can be implemented as part of application which can be implemented separately from other functional components or modules such as interface module display module rendering module and repository . Data bus can be implemented to communicate data over a given port between application and interface module display module rendering module and repository . In some instances application can be implemented as a standalone application or as a component i.e. module of another application. Data or information e.g. content or file data including data describing one or more caller attributes routing rules route modification conditions and the like associated with a panel can be stored in repository which can be implemented using a database data store data warehouse or any other type of data repository or structure. In other examples more fewer or different modules can be used to implement the described techniques for panel presentation and are not limited to those provided.

According to some examples computer system performs specific operations in which processor executes one or more sequences of one or more instructions stored in system memory . Such instructions can be read into system memory from another computer readable medium such as static storage device or disk drive . In some examples hard wired circuitry can be used in place of or in combination with software instructions for implementation. In the example shown system memory includes modules of executable instructions for implementing an operation system O S an application and a communication manager module which in turn can implement a call IDer module a CMS controller module and a CMS router to provide the functionalities described herein.

The term computer readable medium refers at least in one embodiment to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium can take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory . Transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of electromagnetic acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infrared data communications 

Common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

In some examples execution of the sequences of instructions can be performed by a single computer system . According to some examples two or more computer systems coupled by communication link e.g. links to LAN PSTN or wireless network can perform the sequence of instructions in coordination with one another. Computer system can transmit and receive messages data and instructions including program code i.e. application code through communication link and communication interface . Received program code can be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in disk drive or other non volatile storage for later execution. In one embodiment system or a portion thereof can be implemented as a hand held device such as a mobile phone . But in other embodiments system can be implemented as a personal computer i.e. a desk top computer or any other computing device.

In the example shown system memory can include modules of executable instructions for implementing a communication management system CMS transceiver module that is configured to communicate with communication management systems described herein. Further system memory can include a location determinator module that is configured to determine a position or location using signals obtained for example from cellular towers from satellites or from any source of location determining signals. In one embodiment system or a portion thereof can be implemented as a hand held device such as a mobile phone . But in other embodiments system can be implemented as a personal computer i.e. a desk top computer or any other computing device. To illustrate operation consider that system can be implemented in a mobile phone as a caller device as described herein. Thus system can use location determinator module to determine a location and use digital transmission cellular circuitry e.g. communication interface or CMS transceiver module to transmit the location e.g. geographic location of system along with or separate from e.g. in parallel or in series call data sent over any of the multiple networks including IP and digital cellular networks. As another illustration consider that system can be implemented in a mobile phone as a callee device as described herein. In this configuration CMS transceiver module can be configured to for example passively or proactively transmit messages e.g. via SMS or other suitable messages indicating the location of mobile phone to a communication management system so that the location of mobile phone can be considered in routing phone calls and other electronic messages.

In some examples one or more panels for inbound call management and or call communication e.g. using interface for connecting calls sending electronic messages etc. can be presented on interface which can be an interface for an application such as a video and audio editing application or as a web browsing program Internet content portal client or desktop application for any purpose. Panels can be used to provide additional or supplemental information that can be contextually relevant to another panel presented in interface . Computer notebook computer notebook or laptop smart phone personal digital assistant PDA server and administrator computer can provide content data for rendering content as well as other data which can be implemented to generate for example user inputs configured to accept data to modify call routing and to answer and make phone calls. In some cases an operating system installed on computer can communicate i.e. via an application programming interface API content data and or other related data to another application installed on computer to render i.e. interpreting data and information to draw or display the content in an interface one or more panels presented in interface . In some examples different types of panels can be rendered in interface . In one embodiment interface can include any number and or any type of display environments such as CRT and LCD displays. Note that the above described system and elements can be varied and are not limited to the descriptions or examples provided.

In at least some of the embodiments of the invention the structures and or functions of any of the above described interfaces and panels can be implemented in software hardware firmware circuitry or a combination thereof. Note that the structures and constituent elements shown in as well as their functionality can be aggregated with one or more other structures or elements. Alternatively the elements and their functionality can be subdivided into constituent sub elements if any. As software the above described described techniques can be implemented using various types of programming or formatting languages frameworks syntax applications protocols objects or techniques including C Objective C C C FIex Fireworks Java Javascript AJAX COBOL Fortran ADA XML HTML DHTML XHTML HTTP XMPP and others. These can be varied and are not limited to the examples or descriptions provided.

The foregoing description for purposes of explanation used specific nomenclature to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that specific details are not required in order to practice the invention. In fact this description should not be read to limit any feature or aspect of the present invention to any embodiment rather features and aspects of one embodiment can readily be interchanged with other embodiments.

Thus the foregoing descriptions of specific embodiments of the invention are presented for purposes of illustration and description. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed many alternatives modifications equivalents and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. For the purpose of clarity technical material that is known in the technical fields related to the embodiments has not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the description. Thus the various embodiments can be modified within the scope and equivalents of the appended claims. Further the embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications they thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. Notably not every benefit described herein need be realized by each embodiment of the present invention rather any specific embodiment can provide one or more of the advantages discussed above. In the claims elements and or operations do not imply any particular order of operation unless explicitly stated in the claims. It is intended that the following claims and their equivalents define the scope of the invention.

