---

title: Telecom information for web services that are provided by a telecom network
abstract: Systems and methods for identifying telecom information for web services that will be provided by a telecom network. In one embodiment, a telecom data element is implemented in a telecom network. When a web service request is initiated by an application and sent to a web service gateway, the web service gateway sends a query to the telecom data element. The telecom data element receives the query, and identifies telecom information that relates to the web service that will be provided by the telecom network. For example, the telecom information may comprise policy rules, context information (e.g., location, presence, etc.), and subscriber profiles. After collecting the telecom information, the telecom data element transmits a response to the web service gateway that includes the telecom information. The web service gateway may then process the telecom information to determine how to handle the service request for the web service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09088440&OS=09088440&RS=09088440
owner: Alcatel Lucent
number: 09088440
owner_city: Boulogne-Billancourt
owner_country: FR
publication_date: 20120521
---
The invention is related to the field of communications and in particular to web services that are provided by a telecom network.

Web services are becoming very popular as more and more web sites and applications are available to consumers. Some examples of web services are Facebook Google Voice Twitter etc. Web services may be browser based services or non browser based. With a browser based service an end user device e.g. a smart phone has a browser that accesses a web application over a network such as the internet an enterprise intranet etc. The web application is coded in a language supported by the browser such as JavaScript HTML etc. The browser then renders the web application executable to access provide the desired service. With non browser based services the web application i.e. the executable is downloaded and stored on the end user device. The end user device is able to execute the application without using a browser to access provide the desired service. The application downloaded onto an end user device is commonly referred to as a mobile app or a phone app .

When an end user requests a web service the end user device generates a service request and sends the service request to a server that is able to provide the requested web service. The service request is typically sent using an open Application Programming Interface API that is defined for web based services. For example the open API may be Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP RESTful ParlayX etc. The server or an intermediate gateway then converts the open API request to a request in the protocol supported by the server. The server then provides the requested web service to the requesting device.

Because of the popularity of web services service providers are continually looking for ways to improve the quality of the web services from the point of view of the consumer and the service provider.

Embodiments described herein provide enhanced policy control for web services when the web service is provided by a telecommunication telecom network. When a web service involves communication over a telecom network the embodiments described herein collect telecom information applicable to the web service and handle the web service based on the telecom information. For example a web service may request a voice call to a party. If the voice call will be communicated over a telecom network then policy rules defined in the telecom network may be collected and used to determine how to handle a web service in addition to the general web service policy control. Previously when a gateway received an open API request for a web service that involved a telecom network the gateway would convert the open API request to a request in the protocol understood by an element of the telecom network and send the converted request to the telecom network to provide the service. But the gateway was not able to access information in the telecom network that may be useful in handling the service request. For example if the service request was for a voice call from one party to another party the gateway was not able to access a subscriber profile for either party provide context information for either party acquire policy rules etc. In the embodiments provided herein a telecom data element is installed in the telecom network and is able to identify telecom information applicable to web services that are provided by the telecom network. For example the telecom data element may identify policy rules in the telecom network that are applicable to a requested web service may determine context information in the telecom network for a requested web service may determine a subscriber profile in the telecom network for a party involved in the requested web service etc. The telecom data element may then provide the telecom information to the gateway which received the service request. The gateway may better determine how to handle the service request based on the telecom information received from the telecom network. For example the gateway may decide whether or not to forward the service request to the telecom network based on the telecom information. Because the gateway can handle the service request more effectively based on the telecom information service providers are able to provide higher quality services to their customers.

One embodiment comprises a web service gateway that is configured to receive a service request for a web service from a web based application. The web service gateway is further configured to determine that at least a portion of the web service will be provided by a telecom network. In other words the web service gateway determines that the web service involves a communication over a telecom network and that one or more network elements in the telecom network will contribute to providing the requested web service. The web service gateway is further configured to transmit a query to the telecom network requesting information that relates to the web service.

Another embodiment comprises a telecom data element of a telecom network. The telecom data element is configured to receive the query from the web service gateway regarding the web service. The telecom data element is further configured to identify telecom information that relates to the web service that will be provided by the telecom network. For example the telecom information may comprise policy rules context information e.g. location presence etc. and subscriber profiles. After collecting the telecom information the telecom data element is further configured to transmit a response to the web service gateway that includes the telecom information.

In another embodiment the web service gateway is further configured to receive the response from the telecom data element that includes the telecom information and to process the telecom information to determine how to handle the service request for the web service. The web service gateway is further configured to convert the service request from a first protocol to a second protocol used in the telecom network and to select a subset of the telecom information to insert in the converted service request. The web service gateway is further configured to transmit the converted service request to a network element of the telecom network that provides the web service.

In another embodiment the interface between the telecom data element and the web service gateway comprises an open Application Programming Interface API .

In another embodiment the interface between the telecom data element and the web service gateway comprises a Diameter interface.

The figures and the following description illustrate specific exemplary embodiments of the invention. It will thus be appreciated that those skilled in the art will be able to devise various arrangements that although not explicitly described or shown herein embody the principles of the invention and are included within the scope of the invention. Furthermore any examples described herein are intended to aid in understanding the principles of the invention and are to be construed as being without limitation to such specifically recited examples and conditions. As a result the invention is not limited to the specific embodiments or examples described below but by the claims and their equivalents.

Packet switched network offers web services or web based services to its end users. illustrates an end user device that accesses web services offered by packet switched network . Examples of web services are Facebook Twitter Google Voice enterprise services etc. Device executes an application that is able to initiate a desired web service. Packet switched network also includes a web service gateway . Web service gateway comprises any system server or device that interfaces a web based application with other network elements. Web service gateway is able to receive service requests from the web based application that are formatted according to an open API such as RESTful SOAP Parlay X etc. Web service gateway is able to convert the service requests into protocols that are used by network elements that provide services. For example web service gateway may convert a RESTful service request into Session Initiation Protocol SIP request for a service provided by an IMS network.

Telecom network includes a telecom data element . Telecom data element comprises any system server or device that is able to identify telecom information that relates to a web service provided by telecom network . The telecom information may comprise policy rules charging rules context information subscriber profiles etc. Telecom network further includes a network element . Network element comprises any system server or switch that provides a function or functions for a web service. For example if the web service requests a voice call then network element may comprise a switch or Call Session Control Function CSCF that manages the voice call over telecom network . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that multiple elements of telecom network may commit resources to provide a function for a web service.

Assume for this embodiment that an end user of device selects application app and initiates a web service through application . When this occurs application generates a service request for the web service according to the open API. Application then sends the service request to web service gateway which may then operate as described in .

In step web service gateway receives the service request for the web service. In step web service gateway determines that at least a portion of the web service will be provided by telecom network . To do so web service gateway may process one or more headers of the service request to identify the type of service initiated and to determine that the service type involves communications over telecom network at least partially . For example web service gateway may determine that the requested web service is for a voice call such as Google Voice. Google Voice allows an end user to place voice calls or send text messages through a web portal. Thus some or all of this type of web service will be provided by a network element belonging to telecom network .

When part or all of a requested web service will be provided by telecom network web service gateway transmits a query to telecom network requesting information that relates to the web service in step . The information that relates to the web service may vary based on desired implementations. Web service gateway may send the query to telecom network using an open API Diameter protocol or some other protocol.

In step telecom data element receives the query from web service gateway . The query from web service gateway may include information applicable to the web service. For instance the query may include an identifier for one or more parties involved in the web service such as a directory number a Public User ID PUID an email address etc. The query may also include a service type or media type such as voice call SMS MMS etc. In step telecom data element identifies telecom information that relates to the web service that will be provided by telecom network . For example telecom data element may identify policy rules e.g. Policy and Charging Control PCC rules applicable to the portion of the web service that will be provided by telecom network . Telecom data element may identify context information applicable to the portion of the web service that will be provided by telecom network such as a location of a party a presence of a party etc. Telecom data element may identify a subscriber profile for one or more parties involved in the web service. Telecom data element may gather any other information that is relevant to features or functions that may be provided by telecom network as part of implementing the requested web service.

In order to identify the telecom information telecom data element may query other entities of telecom network . shows examples of entities that may exist in telecom network . For instance telecom network may include a traffic resource server a location server an Operations Support System OSS a Home Location Register HLR or Home Subscriber Server HSS a charging system e.g. either Online Charging System OCS or Offline Charging system OFCS and a Subscriber Profile Repository SPR . Telecom data element may contact any of these or other entities in order to acquire telecom information that is related to the requested web service. After collecting the telecom information telecom data element transmits a response to web service gateway that includes the telecom information in step .

In web service gateway receives the response from telecom data element that includes the telecom information in step . Web service gateway then processes the telecom information to determine how to handle the service request for the web service in step . For example web service gateway may process internal rules from a policy engine using the telecom information and generate finalized policy rules for the requested web service. Web service gateway will then handle the service request based on the finalized policy rules. As one example assume that the telecom information includes a policy rule or subscriber profile that indicates a time period when voice calls intended for a party are restricted such as from 10 00 P.M. to 8 00 A.M. . Web service gateway processes the policy rules from telecom network and internal rules to generate finalized policy rules where the finalized policy rules state that voice calls intended for a party are restricted during a time period. If the present web service includes a voice call to the party during the restricted time period then web service gateway will not allow the web service.

As another example assume that the telecom information includes a policy rule or subscriber profile which indicates that a party wishes to receive a message as an email message during work hours and as an SMS message after work hours. Web service gateway processes the policy rules from telecom network and internal rules to generate finalized policy rules where the finalized policy rules state that a party will receive an incoming message as an email during a first time period i.e. during work hours and will receive the incoming message as an SMS message during a second time period i.e. after work hours . If the present web service includes a message to the party then web service gateway decides whether to send the message to the party as either an email or an SMS message depending on the time of day.

As part of handling the service request web service gateway may determine whether or not to send the service request to telecom network based on the finalized policy rules. If the determination is not to send the service request then method ends. Web service gateway may send a notification to application see indicating that the web service was not allowed and possibly indicating the reasons why the web service was not allowed.

If the determination is to send the service request then web service gateway converts the service request from the open API to a protocol used in telecom network in step . After conversion web service gateway select a subset i.e. zero some or all of the telecom information to provide to telecom network and inserts the selected telecom information in the service request in step . Web service gateway then transmits the service request to network element of telecom network that provides the web service. Network element may include a network service enabler that provides the web service.

The embodiment described above provides enhanced web services when telecom network is involved. Before web service gateway forwards a service request to telecom network to provide a web service telecom data element is able to collect telecom information that relates to the web service. Web service gateway then processes the telecom information to determine how to handle the service request. Previously a gateway did not consult with a telecom network even though a web service requested communications over the telecom network. When a web service requests communications over telecom network in the above embodiment web service gateway contacts telecom data element in advance to retrieve information from telecom network that is related to the web service. By collecting the telecom information in advance web service gateway is able to more effectively determine how to handle the request for the web service.

A web service gateway WSG is also implemented between internet and IMS network . Although web service gateway is illustrated as part of internet those skilled in the art understand that web service gateway is part of a service provider s network that interfaces internet with IMS network . Web service gateway may be part of a framework that ties web based applications to content services such as the Application Exposure Suite by Alcatel Lucent.

IMS network includes telecom data element TDE that is able to identify telecom information that relates to a web service provided by IMS network . IMS network also includes core elements such as a P I S CSCF a Home Subscriber Server HSS one or more application servers AS an Online Charging System OCS a Media Gateway MGW Border Gateway BGW etc.

Upon receiving the service request web service gateway processes the headers of the service request to determine if some or all of the requested web service will be provided by IMS network . Since the Click to Dial service will eventually be routed through IMS network to complete a call to UE web service gateway determines that IMS network will be involved in this requested web service. Instead of simply forwarding the service request to IMS network to place the call to UE web service gateway first requests information from IMS network regarding a call by transmitting a query to telecom data element .

Telecom data element receives the query from web service gateway and identifies telecom information relating to the web service that will be provided by IMS network . For example the query from web service gateway may include a Public User ID PUID for UE . Telecom data element may then query different core elements of IMS network to collect information regarding UE . For example telecom data element may query the HSS to identify a subscriber profile for UE . Telecom data element may also query the S CSCF or the HSS to identify policy rules for UE . Telecom data element may also query the OCS to identify charging rules for UE . Telecom data element may identify any other desired information regarding a call over IMS network to UE .

Assume for this example that telecom data element identifies policy rules i.e. Policy and Charging Control PCC rules attributable to UE . Telecom data element then transmits a response to web service gateway that includes the policy rules. Web service gateway then processes the policy rules to determine how to handle the service request for the Click to Dial service. For example web service gateway may process internal rules from a policy engine and the policy rules from IMS network to generate finalized policy rules for the requested web service. Web service gateway will then handle the service request based on the finalized policy rules. Web service gateway also caches the policy rules from IMS network for a time period in order to handle future service requests to the same party.

In this example assume that the Click to Dial service is allowed based on the finalized policy rules determined by web service gateway . Therefore web service gateway converts the open API service request to a SIP service request that is used by IMS network which is a SIP INVITE. Web service gateway also inserts the IMS policy rules previously provided by telecom data element . Web service gateway then transmits the SIP INVITE to the P I S CSCF to initiate a voice call to UE according to the Click to Dial service. IMS network will then operate in a conventional manner to connect the call to UE .

In the above example there may be situations where the voice call would not be allowed due to the IMS policy rules provided by telecom data element . For example there may be restrictions defined for calls to UE such as based on time of day location etc. If the requested Click to Dial service violates one or more of these restrictions then web service gateway rejects the service request from application . When a service request is rejected web service gateway may send a notification to application indicating as such.

Because web service gateway requests policy rules from telecom data element before sending the SIP INVITE to IMS network web service gateway ensures that a voice call initiated from a web service is in line with other voice calls placed over IMS network . IMS network has policy rules for normal voice calls and an end user of UE expects to experience voice calls in the manner controlled by the policy rules. Web service gateway acquires these policy rules when a web service requests a voice call over IMS network . Therefore web service gateway will be able to handle the web service based on the policies defined in IMS network . Because the same policies are enforced regardless of whether a normal voice call is placed over IMS network or a voice call is placed through a web service the end user will have the same voice call experience.

Any of the various elements shown in the figures or described herein may be implemented as hardware software firmware or some combination of these. For example an element may be implemented as dedicated hardware. Dedicated hardware elements may be referred to as processors controllers or some similar terminology. When provided by a processor the functions may be provided by a single dedicated processor by a single shared processor or by a plurality of individual processors some of which may be shared. Moreover explicit use of the term processor or controller should not be construed to refer exclusively to hardware capable of executing software and may implicitly include without limitation digital signal processor DSP hardware a network processor application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other circuitry field programmable gate array FPGA read only memory ROM for storing software random access memory RAM non volatile storage logic or some other physical hardware component or module.

Also an element may be implemented as instructions executable by a processor or a computer to perform the functions of the element. Some examples of instructions are software program code and firmware. The instructions are operational when executed by the processor to direct the processor to perform the functions of the element. The instructions may be stored on storage devices that are readable by the processor. Some examples of the storage devices are digital or solid state memories magnetic storage media such as a magnetic disks and magnetic tapes hard drives or optically readable digital data storage media.

Although specific embodiments were described herein the scope of the invention is not limited to those specific embodiments. The scope of the invention is defined by the following claims and any equivalents thereof.

