---

title: Noise correcting patient fall risk state system and method for predicting patient falls
abstract: A patient fall prediction system from noise corrected surveillance video by identifying patient fall risk states. A hierarchy of discrete patient fall risk states, from no risk, to intermediate risk to critical risk, describe a patient fall risk. The system transitions from state to state based on changes detected in corresponding areas between a current video frame and a background frame. A set of fall risk state transition rules govern the entry into new fall risk states. A video frame is subdivided into multiple predetermined areas, at least two contain images of the patient. The number of false alarms are reduced by accurately defining fall risk state transition rules and by reducing the opportunity for noise to impact the state transition results. Frames that contain new changes are excluded from fall risk state processing, i.e., the first video frame that might cause an erroneous elevated fall risk state is culled.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09318012&OS=09318012&RS=09318012
owner: 
number: 09318012
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120323
---
The present application is related to and claims priority from the following co pending U.S. patent applications U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 513 523 filed Jul. 29 2011 entitled Noise Correcting Patient Fall Risk State System and Method For Predicting Patient Falls. The above identified application is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 735 307 filed Dec. 12 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 477 285 entitled Non intrusive Data Transmission Network for Use in an Enterprise Facility and Method for Implementing which is assigned to the assignee of the present invention. This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 151 452 filed May 6 2008 entitled System and Method for Predicting Patient Falls which is assigned to the assignee of the present invention. This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 589 654 filed Oct. 27 2008 entitled System and Method for Documenting Patient Procedure which is assigned to the assignee of the present invention. This application is also related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 804 774 filed Jul. 29 2010 entitled System and Method for Using a Video Monitoring System to Prevent and Manage Decubitus Ulcers in Patients which is assigned to the assignee of the present invention. The above identified applications are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The present invention relates generally to a patient monitor. More particularly the present invention relates to a system method and software program product for analyzing video frames and determining the fall risk state of a patient by discriminating non motion noise and non dangerous motion from patient movements.

Fall reduction has become a major focus of all healthcare facilities including those catering to permanent residents. Healthcare facilities invest a huge amount of their resources in falls management programs and assessing the risk of falls in a particular patient class location and care state along with the risk factors associated with significant injuries. Recent studies have found fall rates at 2.2 to 7.0 per 1000 patient bed days in acute care hospitals 11.0 to 24.9 in long term care hospitals and 8.0 to 19.8 in rehabilitation hospitals with the majority of falls occurring from or near the patient s bed usually by patients who should not ambulate without assistance. The patient s mental status is most often listed as the most common risk factor contributing to falls. Bed falls can account for up to half of all falls in a healthcare facility. The range of injury from all falls has been reported to be at a rate of 29 to 48 percent with 4 percent to 7.5 percent resulting in serious injury to the patient. The intention of these studies is to improve patient care by providing adequate monitoring programs corresponding to the perceived patient risk and injury. Realistically however it is simply impossible to know for sure which patient will fall and the severity of the injury that may result from any fall. Bed falls have received an extensive amount of scrutiny due to the patient s high expectation of safety and the disproportional potential for severe injury to the patient over other types of falls.

Round the clock patient monitoring by a staff nurse is expensive therefore healthcare facilities have investigated alternatives in order to reduce the monitoring staff while increasing patient safety. In the past patients at risk of falling from their beds were either physically restrained or sedated regardless of the patient s mental status. Both of these preventives are now considered to be measures of last resort that are reserved for unruly or incompetent patients. Presently falls prevention is subdivided into intervention and monitoring techniques. Interventions are aimed at minimizing falls risk and include such measures as ensuring that the patient can reach necessary items from the bed ensuring that the bed is in a low position and the bed brakes are locked ensuring that the patient has a manual bed call button within reach for summoning a nurse and that a charge nurse responds albeit verbally to every call. Other interventions include the use of half length bedrails to reduce the patient s need to climb over rails to exit the bed and keeping the bedside area uncluttered and obstacle free. Perhaps the most easily implemented intervention is clear instructions from an attending nurse to request assistance prior to leaving the bed.

Healthcare facilities rely on patient monitoring to supplement interventions and reduce the instances of patient falls. Eyes on monitoring of patients is problematic for two reasons cost and privacy. Most facilities maximize the patient to nurse staffing ratios by care units e.g. recovery and critical care units have a lower patient to nurse staffing ratio than floor bed units and typically bed patients demand greater privacy than those in critical or special care units. For these reasons patient monitoring has relied on technological solutions rather than nurse monitoring. Note however that these solutions are alerting devices used as an aid for patient care and are not a substitute for adequate quality staffing.

Prior art fall prevention monitors include alarms using pressure sensitive pads or position sensitive transmission patches. The first type of fall prevention monitor uses a pressure sensitive pad that senses the patient s body mass. If the sensor detects a change in the patient s body mass a remotely located alarm is sounded to summon staff. These monitors are extremely adaptable and may be placed in one or more locations on the patient s bed on the floor adjacent to the bed on chairs toilet seats wheel chairs and almost any other place that a patient may rest. These devices have gained considerable acceptance in the healthcare industry because they are relatively inexpensive non intrusive exhibit a fairly low instance of false alarms and are reliable. These monitors can be used in tandem to more accurately assess the position of a patient thereby further reducing false alarms. For instance the system may be configured with one pressure sensitive pad in the bed and under the patient and a second pressure sensitive pad on the floor. Then the staff will be alerted whenever a patient s weight shifts off of the bed pad and again when the patient s weight is sensed by the floor pad.

Detractors to pressure sensitive fall prevention monitors counter that these types of devices may be more accurately described as patient fall detectors than fall prevention monitors because they typically alert only after a fall has occurred and the patient s weight has shifted out of the bed. In other words prior art pressure sensitive fall monitors cannot perceive that the patient is in the process of getting out of bed only that the patient s weight has left the bed. Additionally poorly placed pressure sensitive pads may send multiple nuisance alarms that must be responded to and then to reposition the pressure sensitive pad requires that the bed be empty.

More recently patient position sensitive transmission patches have been introduced that sense the position of a body part and send an alarm if the part is in a near weight bearing position. The patch is a battery powered inclinometer processing circuitry and a transmitter enclosed in an adhesive patch that is used in conjunction with a wireless receiver and alarm. The patch may be applied to the back of a patient s thigh parallel with the femur. Whenever the patient s thigh is approaching a weight bearing angle the patch sends an alert signal to the remote receiver and an alarm sounds. These position sensitive transmission patches are relatively inexpensive and can be worn continuously for up to three weeks. The downside is battery life. The transmission patch device is essentially in a sleep mode when the patch is horizontal and consumes relatively little power however when the patch is oriented off horizontal the inclinometer and associate electronics are continuously processing measurements. Alert transmissions consume even more battery power.

Recently however video programs have been introduced for alerting healthcare professionals of a patient s fall from a video surveillance system. Many patient rooms now contain video surveillance equipment for monitoring and recording activity in a patient s room. Typically these video systems compare one video frame with a preceding frame for changes in the video frames that exceed a certain threshold level. These may be taking from the color luminance or any other attribute of the video frame. If the condition is met the system automatically flags the frame as having motion and may save it for further review or archive or alternatively it may alert the healthcare professional to potential patient movement in the patient s room. More advanced systems identify particular zones within the patient room that are associated with a potential hazard for the patient. Then sequential video frames are evaluated for changes in those zones. If the system detects a change in one of the zones the system assumes that the patient has entered the zone. Typically these zones are associated with areas within the patient s room that are associated with a patient fall such as the floor or lavatory area or near a sink toilet chair or bed where a patient may land after a fall. In those systems the healthcare professional is immediately alerted if the motion is detected in the danger zones and this is indicative of a patient fall. The healthcare professional can then assist the patient to his feet or summon emergency assistance as necessary. While these systems alleviate the healthcare professional of some of the burden of monitoring the patient they suffer from the shortcoming of being essentially reactive alerting the staff only after an event as occurred.

An improved video monitoring system is disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 151 452 filed May 6 2008 entitled System and Method for Predicting Patient Falls. That system differs from the prior art in that it analyzes the surveillance video frames for patterns of motion. It is essentially a two tier method. First it evaluates changes between video frames in a patient s room for patterns that could only be attributed to the patient thus it discriminates motion in the room or motion that is not the patient moving. Second the predictive system attempts to identify patient movement that is a precursor to a patient fall. Certain movements by the patient have no predictive value to the system and are therefore discarded from further evaluation. Other patient movement may indicate that the patient will attempt a dangerous movement one that might result in a patient fall. This movement is not necessarily a fall but movement that will likely precede a fall. Thus it is not necessarily that the patient has been detected moving or where in the room the motion is detected but how and where that patient movement relates to other motion attributed to the patient. This is achieved by recognizing patterns of patient movements that are precursor movements to a patient fall. Essentially a plurality of patient movement signatures are compiled and saved in the system. Then once the system has detected motion in the patient room that may be the patient moving around the character of that patient movement is saved. As more patient movements are detected the character of those movements is saved with the previously detected patient movement. Patterns of patient movement accrued over time are compared to the patient movement signatures. If the movement pattern compares favorably to a signature that has been identified as a precursor to a patient fall the healthcare professional is immediately alerted who then intervenes before the patient falls. Typically the healthcare professional audibly warns the patient of the danger and simultaneously hurries to the patient s room.

While the predictive patient fall system has been demonstrated to be extremely useful in reducing the frequency of patient falls in a healthcare facility generally the system errs on the side of caution. Recognizing patient movement that is predictive of a patient fall is valuable if the movement patterns correlate to patient movement signatures that occur well in advance of the fall at least with sufficient time for the healthcare professional to successfully intervene. Furthermore movement signatures that do not necessarily result in a patient fall are of extreme importance to the system even though the likelihood of a fall is somewhat remote. Once the patient traverses the final stages of a fall there is much less opportunity of the healthcare professional to successfully intervene and far less likely of a satisfactory outcome. Hence the library of patient movement signatures compiled with many movement signatures that will almost never be satisfied i.e. compare favorable to a pattern of patient movement detected by the system. In many cases the system will recognize two or more patterns of patient movement from the surveillance video that partially match one or more fall prediction movement signatures. Hence any changes detected between video frames that complete a movement pattern that matches a fall signature will result in an alert being sent to the healthcare professional.

As should be appreciated because the predictive system may have identified multiple patient movement patterns that are similar but not a match to a fall signature any changes between video frames that complete one of the movement patterns matching a fall signature will result in an alert regardless of the source of the changes. Any patient movement that completes a movement pattern matching a fall signature must be investigated by an attending healthcare professional. For the most part these patient movements are merely the patient attempting to do something that requires assistance such as getting out of a chair out of a tub out of bed off a gurney etc. regardless of whether or not the patient intends to make such a movement or not. Typically the video fall prediction system may issue a plurality of alerts to the attending healthcare professionals for patient movement that never culminates in a patient attempt to do something that requires assistance. Regardless each of these alerts must be investigated by the attending healthcare professional. However other events may occur that are not related to patient movement that may also be interpreted incorrectly as a change in the video that completes one or more patient movement patterns matching a fall prediction movement signature. Typically these false alarms are attributed to spurious noise in the system. Noise may result from electrical noise on electrical components light noise on light receptors or some combination of the two. These false alarms greatly increase the amount of work for healthcare professionals charged with patient care above the number of valid alerts that must be investigated by the professional. The continued or frequent issuance of false alarms ultimately results in healthcare professionals being less vigilant in their patient monitoring and response to fall alerts.

The present invention is directed to a system method and software product for predicting patient falls from noise corrected surveillance video by identifying patient fall risk states. The present system evaluates each video frame received from a surveillance camera to determine a discrete fall risk state based on changes in the current video frame from previous video frames. Typically the surveillance camera monitors a patient s room or similar area where falls are likely to occur. The intent is to define a hierarchy of discrete patient fall risk states that describes a patient fall risk which the system enters based on detecting changes in patient body areas of a video frame.

While a system may utilizes any number of discrete states the plurality of discrete states generally range from a low or no fall risk state to an intermediate fall risk state up to a critical fall risk state where some type of action is mandated by the system in order to avoid a patient fall usually the issuance of an alert. The present noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction system transitions from one state to the next based on changes detected between a current video frame and a background frame.

Typically a video frame is subdivided into multiple predetermined areas for evaluation. At least two of the predetermined areas contain images of body parts of the patient. That is image portions of the video frame are bound to patient body parts and not just to danger areas of the patient s room. By subdividing the patient s image into discrete body parts specific fall risk state transition rules can be assigned to each body part and area. Changes detected in an area of the video frame containing a specific part can more accurately assess a risky patient movement that is identified as a precursor movement to a patient fall . Moreover several sets of fall state transition rules can be compiled and implemented based on the patient s body position and orientation. For example the patient s body might be subdivided in the video frame as an upper torso body part and a lower torso body part. However different sets of fall state transitions rules are used depending on whether the patient is sitting standing or lying down and or the patients orientation to the surveillance camera.

These predetermined areas may also include other areas that are within the patient s range of motion but outside the body part areas defined in the video frame. These areas are linked to patient movements that may originate from the patient body parts bound in the other areas discussed above. Appropriate fall risk state transition rules also correspond to these outlier areas. For example a plurality of torso rail areas may be defined within the range of motion of the patient s body parts and proximate to the torso areas but such that the patient s image is not typically within any of the rail areas under lower fall risk states. Changes detected within these predetermined areas may based on the current fall risk state of the patient and the specific fall state transition rules for the patient s position cause the system to enter into an elevated fall risk state.

The number of false alarms which are prevalent in prior art systems are greatly reduced in present noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction system by accurately defining fall risk state transition rules and by reducing the opportunity for noise to impact the state transition results. It is important to issue a fall alert on the first video frame in which a patient movement is detected that can be unequivocally identified as a possible precursor movement to a patient fall. However some apparent motion or apparently risky movement detected within a frame may be the result of non risky behavior movement by others in the room or noise. Most non risky movement within the video frame can be readily excluded from risky patient movements by close adherence to the hierarchy of patient fall risk states and the fall risk state transition rules. In other words the fall risk state prediction system should transition between one or more fall risk states before reaching a critical fall risk state that requires the issuance of an alarm. Motion detected within the video frame that is proximate to the patient for instance within an area of the frame that the prior art systems would categorize as a high risk area will not necessarily be interpreted as a high risk movement by the patient unless the system is operating in an intermediate fall risk state that allows for a transition into a critical fall risk state.

System noise is dealt with separately to the fall risk state processing. One noise reduction technique utilized by the present invention is to reduce the sample time to a sample interval that exceeds that typical duration of noise. However because noise is often associated with only a single video frame a brute force reduction in the sampling rate will not necessarily result in the issuance of fewer false alarms. The present noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction system overcomes the noise problem by identifying what appears to be new movement within a video frame changes detected between the current video frame and the previous background video frame and then excluding the first video frame with new movement changes from fall risk state processing. That is the first video frame that might cause the system to enter an elevated fall risk state is not fall risk state processed. If the changes detected within the frame are a result of movement and not noise the changes will be present on successive video frames. As a practical matter the issuance of a patient fall alert is postponed for the duration of only a single frame usually on the order of 0.042 sec for 24 fps sampling. These comparisons are made on an area by area to correspond with the fall risk state transition rules. In so doing only changes detected within an area can be attributed to noise not changes detected somewhere within the video frame itself.

In the following description reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized. It is also to be understood that structural procedural and system changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. The following description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense. For clarity of exposition like features shown in the accompanying drawings are indicated with like reference numerals and similar features as shown in alternate embodiments in the drawings are indicated with similar reference numerals.

As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art the present invention may be embodied as a method system or computer program product. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects all generally referred to herein as a circuit or module. Furthermore the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a nonexhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a transmission media such as those supporting the Internet or an intranet or a magnetic storage device. Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer usable medium may include a propagated data signal with the computer usable program code embodied therewith either in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. The computer usable program code may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to the Internet wireline optical fiber cable RF etc.

Moreover the computer readable medium may include a carrier wave or a carrier signal as may be transmitted by a computer server including internets extranets intranets world wide web ftp location or other service that may broadcast unicast or otherwise communicate an embodiment of the present invention. The various embodiments of the present invention may be stored together or distributed either spatially or temporally across one or more devices.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may be written in an object oriented programming language such as Java7 Smalltalk or C . However the computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code may include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

One area of particular concern for healthcare facilities is patient falls particularly from the patient s bed. Typically a healthcare facility is subdivided into corridors of patient rooms with a centrally located care station the nurse s station responsible for a group of rooms. The care station is usually connected to each patient room by at least an intercom system. Each room has a call device that triggers an audible alert at the care station usually coupled with visual room identification indicia at the care station. Normally at least one healthcare professional remains in the care station to monitor the patient call system while others go about their routines in and out of patient rooms and other areas of the facility. Patients who should not ambulate without assistance are instructed to call for assistance as they are prone to bed falls although virtually every patient is at some risk of a bed fall. Patients do not or sometimes cannot follow instructions which results in falls and possible injuries. Motion detectors while helpful in detecting patient movements that might result in a fall tend to generate a disproportionately high percentage of false alarms. Responding to multiple false alarms tends to desensitize healthcare professionals to the perceived risk of a patient fall. Pressure sensitive pad patient monitors are at the other extreme that is they tend to alert only after the patient is in an unsteady state and in the process of falling such as when the patient s weight shifts from the bed during egress. Once in an unsteady state it is difficult for a healthcare professional to respond before the patient falls. Patient position sensitive transmission patches alert the professional whenever the part of the patient s body having the pad rotates at a particular angle indicating that the patient is attempting to move into a more vertical position. These systems cannot detect certain critical patient movements that precede a fall such as a patient rolling off a bed in a generally horizontal attitude or falling backwards from a sitting position off the bed. Furthermore the latter two devices generally require installing of standalone fall detection equipment.

Recently the U.S. Congress adopted Public Law No 110 202 entitled Keeping Seniors Safe From Falls Act of 2007 for identification analysis intervention and rehabilitation of persons at risk of falling. This law may mandate minimal standards for patient fall care and monitoring. What is needed is a patient fall prediction system that detects patient activity in situations indicative of a probable fall and generates an alert prior to the fall event thereby allowing the healthcare professionals sufficient time to react before the actual fall. Optimally the system could be incorporated in technology existing in the healthcare facility and should be adaptable for monitoring for patient falls under a variety of conditions.

The present invention generally relates to patient monitoring using captured video image frames of the patient for detecting circumstances in which the patient is at an elevated risk of falling. Video monitoring of patient activity is known such as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 735 307 filed Dec. 12 2003 by Johnson and entitled Non intrusive Data Transmission Network for Use in an Enterprise Facility and Method for Implementing. The aforementioned Johnson application also describes detecting patient movements by analyzing sequential frames of video images for changes. A video monitor camera system is installed in the patient s room and aimed at an area of interest in the room such as at the patient. Sequential image frames are compared for differences that indicate motion. Once detected the system flags the sequence of images for local storage that can be remotely retrieved at a later time. Furthermore the Johnson application describes techniques for filtering out unimportant motion in the frame and concentrating on only relevant areas of the image such as the patient s bed the area proximate to the patients bed or any other area in the patient s room thereby saving only the video sequences that are relevant. While these stored video sequences are an important supplement to medical records the patient monitoring system stores all sequences in which motion is detected without regard to the patient s risk of falling.

Predicting patient falls through video monitoring of patient activity is also known such as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 151 452 filed May 6 2008 by Johnson and entitled System and Method for Predicting Patient Falls. Certain types of motion detected in a patient room from the analysis of video frames can be correlated to motion comprising patient movement signatures that are precursors to a patient fall. This type of patient fall prediction system can be implemented in a facility s existing surveillance monitoring system. The system includes at least one surveillance camera positioned in the patient s room for observing the patient. Typically the healthcare professional is stationed remotely from the patient room and monitors the system at the remote. In set up phase the viewpoint of the camera is oriented toward an area in the room associated with elevated risk of patient falls such as a bed chair wheelchair or shower. The patient will be located in this area. The healthcare professional obverses the room setting on a monitor and identifies an area in the viewport frame that will be monitored for patient falls. This area is typically the origin of patient movement and the general location of the patient in the viewport. Next the healthcare professionals defines specific areas on the display that are associated with elevated risk for falling usually by graphically marking these risk areas on the display screen. These high risk areas include the edges of a bed or chair the side of a tub a shower entry or even an entryway threshold. Alternatively these high risk areas may be identified automatically through a pattern recognition procedure implemented in the video system. Once identified by the professional the patient fall prediction system monitors high risk areas for motion and correlates patterns of detected motion to known motion detection signatures. Some detection signatures represent general motion that does not correspond to patient falls while others represent patient fall signatures that is movement that is a precursor to a patient fall. When a detection pattern correlates to a fall detection signature a fall alert is immediately transmitted to the healthcare professional at the remote location.

Motion patterns are detected through the use of concurrent detection zones that are delineated adjacent to graphic markings of the risk areas made by the healthcare professional. The purpose of the detections zones is to predict patient falls based on the direction of motion detected across the detection zones. Detection patterns indicating an inward motion toward the patient are not precursors to falls and are usually ignored. Conversely motion detection patterns indicative of motion away from the origin outward from the patient are indicative of a high risk patient movement that may be a precursor to a fall. These outward patient movements are detected as sequential motion across the set of detection zones beginning with the innermost zone then through the internal detection zones of the set and finally are detected in the outermost detection zone last i.e. motion is detected chronologically from the innermost motion detection zone to the outermost zone . Once matched to a fall detection signature a fall alert is immediately transmitted to the healthcare professional.

One shortcoming of the prior art patient fall prediction system is the amount of processing power required by the system for tracking movement patterns. Depending on the number of zones created within the patient s room the prior art patient fall prediction system may detect and simultaneously track several hundred or more motion patterns resulting from changes being detected in the concurrent detection zones. Each of the patterns must be constantly updated with results from the most current video frame and those updated patterns tested against fall prediction patient movement signatures that are precursors to a patient fall from a library of signatures. In addition motion detected in each video frame commences new motion patterns for tracking. Obviously identical motion patterns are consolidated and some motion patterns will correlate to non fall related patient movement and while other patterns stagnate each of those types can then be discarded. However overall the tracking process can be daunting and the number of possible permeations for matching can be unwieldy.

Another shortcoming of the prior art patient fall prediction system is the frequency of false alerts generated by the system. A false alert for the purposes of the present invention is an alert that has no basis on motion being detected within the patient room. False alerts may occur for a variety of reasons however the most prevalent is the existence of noise that is incorrectly interpreted as a change between video frames which is further misinterpreted as patient movement that concludes a movement pattern that matches a fall prediction signature. False alerts resulting from noise need not be investigated by the attending healthcare professional however the professional has no means for discriminating false alarms generated by noise from other patient alerts.

Before discussing the present invention in detail it should be appreciated that the physical structure of the device may take many forms and operate in a variety of modes without departing from the intended scope of the invention. A brief description of several structural exemplary embodiments is discussed immediately below. is a diagram of a patient fall prediction system in accordance with exemplary embodiments of the present invention. As depicted in the figure patient fall prediction system generally comprises patient monitoring device and nurse monitor device . Patient monitoring device captures video images of a portion of the patient s room via camera which is coupled to camera control device . Camera should be at least of medium quality produce a stable video output of 300 lines of resolution or greater and have infrared illumination or quasi night vision for operating in extremely low light conditions. Additionally video camera should have a relatively fast shutter speed to capture relatively fast motion without blurring at frame rates of 20 fps or above. In accordance with one exemplary embodiment of the present invention video camera is an infrared IR device which senses changes in the IR portion of the visible light spectrum. In so doing the system is less susceptible to light noise or interference caused by changes in light sources within the patient s room such as the television room light patient monitors and monitoring equipment etc. Alternatively video camera may comprise multiple video sensors for different purposes. For instance video camera may comprise an IR camera for monitoring changes in the patient room for determining movement and predicting patient falls and a second camera for instance a high definition HD camera for transmitting video images of the room to an attending healthcare professional and archiving when appropriate video images to storage for future evaluation.

Camera control device processes the video images received from camera in accordance with the fall prediction methodology. As such camera control device includes processor memory and optional video processor . Camera control device may be a special purpose device configured specifically for patient monitoring such as the set top control and camera control devices described in the Johnson application identified above or optionally may be a generic personal computer PC . In either case memory includes both ROM and RAM type as necessary for storing and executing fall prediction program instructions and a high capacity memory such as a hard drive for storing large sequences of video image frames. Additionally camera control device may be fitted with a high capacity flash memory for temporarily storing temporal image frames during image processing and or prior to more permanent storage on a hard drive or at a network location. Optional video processor may be a dedicated image processor under the control of an application routine executing on processor or may be logic operating in processor . Under the fall prediction routines video processor analyzes portions of sequential images for changes in a particular area which correlate to patient movements that are precursors to a fall. Patient monitoring device may be coupled to nurse monitor device located in nurses station via distribution network for transmitting surveillance images of the patient s room and fall risk state information to nurse monitor device . Optionally audible alarm may be provided for alerting healthcare professionals that camera control device has detected that the patient is at risk of falling. Additionally camera control device comprises other components as necessary such as network controllers a display device and display controllers user interface etc.

In many regards nurse monitor device may be structurally similar to camera control device however its primary functions are to set up the fall prediction routines running at camera control device and to monitor fall risk state information and surveillance video provided by patient monitoring device . Optimally nurse monitor device is connected to a plurality of patient monitoring devices that are located in each of the patient rooms being monitored at the nurse s station. Nurse monitor device generally comprises computer coupled to display . Computer may be a personal computer laptop net computer or other net appliance capable of processing the information stream. Computer further comprises processor memory and optional video processor as in camera control device however these components function quite differently. In setup phase a healthcare professional views the patient room setting and graphically defines areas of high risk for a patient fall such as the patient bed chair shower tub toilet or doorways. The graphic object may be manipulated on display by user gestures using resident touch screen capabilities or the user gestures may be entered onto a display space using mouse or other type of user interface through a screen pointer not shown . That information is passed on to patient monitoring device which monitors the selected area for motion predictive of a movement that is a precursor to a patient fall. When patient monitoring device detects that the patient is at high risk of falling the fall risk state is immediately transmitted to nurse monitor device which prioritizes the information over any other routine currently running as an alarm. This is accompanied by an audible alarm signal via audible alarm . The healthcare provider can then take immediate response action to prevent a patient fall.

In accordance with other exemplary embodiments of the present invention patient monitoring device may operate independently as a self contained standalone device. In that case patient monitoring device should be configured with a display screen and user interface for performing setup tasks. Audible alarm would not be optional. In accordance with still another exemplary embodiment patient monitoring device may comprise only video camera which is coupled to nurse monitor device at a remote location. In operation camera transmits a stream of images to nurse monitor device for video processing for fall prediction. It should be appreciated however that often high volume traffic on distribution networks such as sequences of video images experience lag time between image capture and receipt of the images at the remote location. To avoid undesirable consequences associated with lag the distribution network bandwidth should be sufficiently wide such that no lag time occurs or a dedicated video path be created between nurse monitor device and patient monitoring device . Often neither option is practical and therefore the video processing functionality is located proximate to video camera in order to abate any undesirable lag time associated with transmitting the images to a remote location.

In addition patient fall prediction system may comprise a deactivator for temporarily disabling the patient fall prediction system under certain conditions. In the course of patient care healthcare professionals move in and out of patient rooms and in so doing solicit movements from the patients that might be interpreted as a movement that proceeds a patient fall by the patient fall prediction system. Consequently many false alarms may be generated by the mere presence of a healthcare professional in the room. One means for reducing the number of false alarms is to temporarily disarm the patient fall prediction system whenever a healthcare professional is in the room with a patient. Optimally this is achieved through a passive detection subsystem that detects the presence of a healthcare professional in the room using for example RFID or FOB technology. To that end patient monitoring device will include receiver interrogator for sensing an RFID tag or FOB transmitter. Once patient monitoring device recognizes a healthcare professional is in the proximity the patient fall prediction system is temporarily disarmed. The patient fall prediction system will automatically rearm after the healthcare professional has left the room or after a predetermined time period has elapsed. Alternatively the patient fall prediction system may be disarmed using a manual interface such as an IR remote either carried by the healthcare professional or at the patient s bedside or a dedicated deactivation button such as at camera control device or in a common location in each of the rooms. In addition to the local disarming mechanisms the patient fall prediction system may be temporarily disarmed by a healthcare professional at care station using computer prior to entering the patient s room.

Before describing the generic process a brief description of video capture data might be helpful. Generally a typical video camera captures a sequence of digital video frames each at a predetermined resolution at a predetermined frame rate for instance sixteen twenty twenty four and even up to thirty six frames per second. The resolution of digital cameras is usually defined by the number of pixels both horizontally and vertically such as 640 480 or as a total number of pixels in the image such as 1.4 mega pixels while the resolution of analog video cameras is typically defined by the number of television lines for instance 320 lines. Most prior art digital video cameras used for surveillance applications have a relatively low resolution in the range of 640 480 pixels however the resolution is often dependent on the application and the size of the surveillance area in the field of view of the camera. For instance a larger surveillance area might necessitate the use of a higher resolution camera in order to recognize objects in the field of view. As patient rooms in a HCF are relatively small adequate surveillance video has been achieved using relatively low resolution cameras. Maintaining resolutions as low as possible is often important because the A V traffic on network often creates bottlenecks for other sometimes more important network traffic data see generally U.S. Pat. No. 7 477 825 discussing techniques for handling A V network traffic . Hence video resolution often suffers for the sake of network flow.

Furthermore for the purposes of describing the video processing and analysis techniques below it should be appreciated that each pixel of the 1.4 mega pixel exemplary frame alluded to above is defined by two optical characteristics chrominance and luminance. Using luminance and chrominance image encoding each pixel of a frame is allocated a predetermined number of bits for describing the pixel for instance a 12 bit pixel encoding in the YUV12 planar pixel encoding devotes 8 bits to the Y or luminance channel and the remaining 4 bits allocated for the chrominance of a 2 2 pixel block. In any case the chrominance bits describe the pixel s color or the coordinates of the color in some predetermined color space while the luminance bits describe the intensity of the light. Hence chrominance pixel characteristics may be extremely useful in recognizing a patient in a video frame by skin tone or other bodily colorations. However the use of chrominance pixel characteristics is susceptible to changes in the ambient brightness of the surveillance area as the ambient light in the area diminishes the chrominance bits fall within a narrow range of color coordinates in the color gambit typically near the gray scale. While it may still be possible to distinguish the patient from the surrounding area using contrasts in the chrominance characteristics of the pixels in the video frame the process is far more difficult and less reliable.

Luminance pixel characteristics on the other hand are far less susceptible to changes in the ambient brightness of the surveillance area for two reasons. The amount of light reflected off a surface the luminance value is highly influenced by the distance from the light source in the surveillance area and that distance can be generally referenced to a patient s position in a surveillance area. Assuming illumination in a patient s room is provided by one or both of an overhead room light and a video camera equipped with infrared illumination elements that are generally arranged around the lens and oriented toward the view axis of the camera i.e. coaxial to the camera s view axis .

While evaluating the luminance characteristics has some advantages over using chrominance characteristics and vice versa the present noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction system using generic video analysis is not necessarily dependent on the luminance characteristics chrominance characteristics or some other pixel characteristic. Hence luminance and chrominance will be generally referred to throughout as color or color information or weight of a pixel group of pixels area of the image frame etc.

Distribution network further comprises network switches firewall servers and computers which may be personal computers laptops net computers or other net appliances capable of processing the information stream and may be connected to the Internet via high speed line . In accordance with one exemplary embodiment of the present invention computers will be optionally coupled to touch screen displays capable of receiving and echoing user gestures in display space see nurse monitor device .

Before discussing the present invention in greater detail it will be helpful to view a typical patient room from a viewpoint perspective of a video image. is video viewport of patient room as viewed by a healthcare provider on a display at computer . Patient room can be seen the side walls ceiling and floor. Along one wall is an entry door and a bathroom door and containing various furnishings bed chair and a night stand. Clearly any patient monitoring system should have the flexibility to adapt to all different room configurations in the HCF.

Before discussing the present patient fall risk state prediction system and method it may be beneficial to briefly discuss a generic prior art patient fall detection method as depicted in . Typically prior art patient fall alert systems continually monitor areas surrounding a patient for motion these areas are usually designated as high risk areas. More advanced systems such as the patient fall prediction system described above of Johnson attempt to distinguish motion that is specific to a patient fall from other motion detected in the patient room prior to issuing a patient fall alert. is a flowchart of a method for implementing a patient fall detection system as is known in the prior art. Essentially prior art fall detection methodologies focus on specific spatial areas in for example a patient room to determine whether or not a patient fall has occurred. If changes in the monitored video occur within one of the designated errors most prior art systems issue an alert. More sophisticated fall prediction systems attempt to concatenate patterns of video changes detected in different room positions that infer patient movement of the type that usually precedes a fall. In any case a setup procedure is invoked at for instance the nurse monitor device where a healthcare professional identifies the location of the patient within the viewport step . Once the patient s location is known a plurality of areas with an elevated risk of patient falls are identified within the viewport step . These areas include any portion of the room that might present a hazard for the patient including the floor or an area proximate to a lavatory sink chair or bed or anywhere that the patient might experience a fall. Next the prior system monitors the predefined risk areas for changes between video frames step . Motion within an area is inferred from changes in successive video frames proximate to a risk area. Next more advanced patient fall detection systems attempt to distinguish specific motion from general motion step . For example the mere detection of a change occurring between video frames within a risk area is not in itself indicative of motion and the mere interpretation of motion within a risk area is not in itself indicative of patient movement. One mechanism for distinguishing specific motion from general motion is by tracking the movement patterns detected in different detection areas within the patient room and comparing the movement patterns to a library of signature each of which identify a specific type of patient movement. Motion that forms a pattern with previous motion motion detected between previous frames that does not match a signature is discarded. Additionally motion that forms a patter with previous motion that matches non patient motion is discarded such as another person entering the patient s room . Motion that forms a pattern with previous motion that matches a non fall patient signature is discarded such as the patient rolling over in bed or making some other risk free movement . Only when motion that forms a pattern with previous motion and that pattern matches a patient fall signature is an alert issued that is a pattern of patient movements that is indicative of a high risk movement step . As may be appreciated from the foregoing the prior art suffers from at least three major shortcomings the reliance on video changes occurring within a designated risk area for issuing a patient fall alert the number of movement patterns that must be tracked updated and compared to a library of motion signatures at each frame for identifying specific motion related to a patient fall and the frequency of false alarms created by noise that is unrelated to movement of the patient or patient falls.

With further regard to the volume of unwarranted and false alerts issued that must be investigated by the health care professionals in the prior art fall detection systems these unwarranted and false alerts fall into one of three separate categories. An alert triggered by non risky motion or movement rather than by a patient movement that is a precursor to a patient fall an alert triggered by the patient or someone else present in the room or an alert being triggered by misinterpreting video changes as movement usually from noise. In an effort to reduce the sheer volume of unwarranted and false alerts the automated functions of many prior art fall monitoring systems merely issue alerts under conditions where it is likely that the patient has already fallen thus eliminating an opportunity for the healthcare professional to prevent a patient fall.

In an effort to overcome the shortcoming of the prior art a noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction invention is presented below. Before discussing the methods implemented by the present noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction invention depicted in some brief descriptions of the invention nomenclatures use herein and state transition examples might be useful. Briefly the present noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction system correlates patient events to a fall risk state. More particularly the present noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction invention correlates any change in patient movement to a fall risk state or more particularly to entry into a patient fall risk state.

This correlation is not made in a vacuum but instead the system assesses changes detected between video frames based on the present fall risk state of a patient. Essentially the present noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction system evaluates the fall risk state of the patient in order to identify patient movements that may be indicative of a patient fall rather than merely attempting to detect movement in a particular area of the patient s room. Patient fall risk states are defined hereinafter as a set of patient risk states of differing importance with respect to a fall that define the patient s potential for a fall based on a specific type of patient movement at the current risk state. The precise nomenclature and number of patient fall risk states is not important for describing or practicing the present invention i.e. patient fall risk states between 1 and n or alternatively patient fall risk states identified with system state identifiers REST WAIT NO WAIT LISTEN and TRIGGER. The primary aim here is to correlate a detected change in patient movement referred to below as a patient event to a fall risk state or more correctly a fall risk state transition to a particular fall risk state . The new fall risk state or state transition to the new fall risk state is based on the type of event that the change of patient movement represents the current fall risk state the part of the patient body for which the event was detected and a set of fall risk state transition rules associated with the part of the patient body in other words area specific fall risk state transition rules .

For the purposes of describing the present noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction invention an event is an occurrence that if detected may require the present noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction system to enter into a new patient fall risk state. In general an event represents a change in the motion detected for a monitored area of video frame usually the patient body part or some other area of the patient s room . More particularly an event is measured as a change in a valve of a parameter of a video frame or perhaps between video frames. For the purposes of describing exemplary noise correcting patient fall risk state invention two types of events will be primarily discussed ACTIVE and INACTIVE events.

An ACTIVE event is detected when a parameter value or the change in a parameter value exceeds a threshold amount. For example when a change in a parameter value is detected between video frames the change in that value may represent the occurrence of an event. More particularly if a change or difference in the total pixel weights between a current video frame and a background frame is detected that exceeds a predetermined motion threshold amount an event has occurred more specifically a motion related event. The threshold level is predetermined based on at least the type of parameter being monitored and the size of the area being sampled. Because the exemplary event represents some type of change hence activity within the video frame this type of event is described as an ACTIVE type event.

Alternatively if total difference does not exceed the motion threshold amount then it might be understood that no event has occurred. However because the present noise correcting patient fall risk state system may enter into higher elevated fall risk state from the current fall risk state based on activity it may also enter a lower fall risk state based on inactivity. For the opposite condition when no change is detected between a pair of video frames that area is considered INACTIVE or no motion. In other words an INACTIVE event is said to occur in the absence of the occurrence of an ACTIVE.

While monitoring change between full video frames is of some importance for instance for determining which video frames to tag for archiving detecting motion somewhere in a video frame is of only marginal value in assessing a patient fall risk state for predicting patient falls. What is needed is to detect events occurring within a predetermined area of the video frame that is proximate to a portion of the patient body or body part wherein motion of that part of the patient s body may be a precursor to a fall. Therefore the video frame is typically subdivided into predetermined areas one or more of which are proximate to or surrounding a patient body part or area. Each predetermined area is evaluated separately for detecting events which are then used by the fall risk state process for determining which new fall risk state to enter if any . However as will be discussed below depending on the current fall risk state and other conditions it may be permissible to circumvent any predetermined areas that are not relevant to the current fall risk state of the system. In other words the noise correcting patient fall risk state system may not evaluate any predetermined areas in which the occurrence of an event could not cause the system to enter another fall risk state.

The noise correcting patient fall risk state system does not enter a new patient fall risk state merely upon the detection of a patient event instead the system calls up a set of fall risk state transition rules that govern the state transitions. Exemplary state transition rules are depicted in the diagrams on A B and A E. Several facts concerning state transition should be understood before continuing the discussion on patient fall risk states. First the exemplary noise correcting patient fall risk state system will not enter an elevated patient fall risk state unless an ACTIVE type event is detected. Moreover depending on the specific fall risk state transition rules the event should occur in a particular predetermined area of the video frame for the system to enter to an elevated fall risk state if at all. Second the exemplary noise correcting patient fall risk state system will enter a lower patient fall risk state if one of two conditions is present an INACTIVE type event is detected or the time period associated with the current patient fall risk state expires. Hence fall risk state transition rules not only govern state transitions but also provide the system with transition information concerning fall risk states such as time periods for maintaining a state. Finally and as alluded to directly above the fall risk state transition rules are specific to the particular predetermined areas within the video frame. That is an event occurring in one predetermined area of the video frame will cause the system to respond differently from the same event being detected in a different predetermined area.

The fall risk state transition rules govern state transitions and hence dictate which patient movement put the patient at risk of falling and which movements should be excluded as a risky movement. Therefore some of these transition fall risk state transition rules prohibit the system entering into the next logical fall risk state that the detection of a particular type of event that would otherwise dictate. For instance if another person is detected in the patient s room and very close to the patient that person is likely a healthcare professional attending the patient. For that scenario issuing an alert for a patient fall would be erroneous since any movement by the patient is likely in response to that of the healthcare professional. Therefore for that scenario the fall risk state transition rules may define a specific elevated fall risk state that precludes the system entering a critical fall risk state regardless of the type of event that is next detected or its location. This is an exemplary state transition rule defining the exemplary WAIT state discussed immediately below and throughout the present disclosure see also the diagrams depicted in B and A E . In so doing the system is not sensitive to mere changes between video frames detected within a certain area of the viewport. Rather than merely monitoring areas of a patient room as in the prior art the present noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction system monitors areas that correlate and or are proximate to specific parts of a patient s body for particular types of events and then applies fall risk state transition rule for the type of event detected at a particular part of a patient s body and the current fall risk state.

Below is a table listing exemplary scenarios for newly detected ACTIVE events more complete sets of exemplary state transition are depicted in the diagrams in A B and A E . It should be mentioned that the scenarios below are not the only possible scenarios and do not represent all possible patient scenarios and or all event types disclosed hereinafter. For simplicity fall risk state transitions due to the detection of INACTIVE events have not been listed in the table nor have fall risk state transitions due to the expiration of time periods.

Continuing with the discussion of event detection the presently described noise correcting patient fall risk state system also monitors corresponding predetermined areas of a pair of video frames for a change in the type of event in order to determine if the system should enter a new fall risk state for the patient. In other words the system does not just detect events but also detects changes in the type of event being detected within a predetermined area of the video frame. Consequently for example a patient event that occurs as a change from no motion to motion i.e. INACTIVE to ACTIVE is of more importance to the system for accessing state transition at least for entering an elevated fall risk state than no change in motion i.e. ACTIVE to ACTIVE . Here again this distinction over the prior art enables the present noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction system to further discriminate mere changes between video frames from motion and more importantly to further distinguish the types of patient movement from mere motion detected within the patient s room. For example a predetermined area containing an ACTIVE event will not generally cause the system to enter a new or elevated fall risk state by detecting ACTIVE events in subsequent video frames within the area. Generally however the system will not fall back into a lower fall risk state than the highest risk state corresponding to events occurring in any of the predetermined areas. Therefore continued patient movements detected as ACTIVE type events within a predetermined area will generally cause the system to maintain the current fall risk state even beyond the expiration of a predefined time period associated with the current patient fall risk state the use of fall risk state time periods is discussed directly below .

In accordance with other exemplary embodiments of the present invention the present noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction system utilizes a unique sets of fall risk state rules for the patient s position and or orientation. Depending on the position and orientation of the patient only certain types of events that correlate to particular patient body parts are understood as precursors to a patient fall therefore only certain types of events that correlate to particular patient body parts can cause the system to enter an elevated patient fall risk state. The fall risk state transition rules are adjusted to accommodate those differences. For instance the present noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction system may have at its disposal unique sets of fall risk state transition rules for a patient seated in the lavatory a patient seated in a chair in one or more orientations to the surveillance camera a standing patient in one or more orientations to the surveillance camera a recumbent patient in the bed etc.

With further regard to the sets of fall risk state transition rules optimally a unique set of fall risk state transition rules is resolved and stored for each possible patient position and or orientation. As mentioned above these sets of fall risk state transition rules are area specific that is unique transition rules are defined for events associated with different patient body parts. For simplicity in describing the present invention at least fourteen distinct patient body parts are defined as represented in the diagram of a seated patient in . These comprise upper torso and at least three sets of upper torso rails upper left inner torso rail upper right inner torso rail upper left middle torso rail upper right middle torso rail upper left outer torso rail upper right outer torso rail and in addition lower torso and at least three sets of lower torso rails lower left inner torso rail lower right inner torso rail lower left middle torso rail lower right middle torso rail lower left outer torso rail and lower right outer torso rail . For some patient positions and or orientations such as the seated position the sets of torso rails may include an optional top rail located above the patient upper top inner torso rail upper top middle torso rail and upper top outer torso rail . Upper and lower torso and areas are generally defined as rectangular pixel sets on the video frame that surround and include the upper and lower torsos respectively although the shape might instead be curvilinear. The extent to the respective torso areas is to fully include a space on the video frame that will regularly receive patient movement having a low fall risk. Hence as depicted in upper torso and lower torso cover different shaped and sized pixel areas in the video frame. The torso rails are defined as parallel sets of pixels that adjoin at least one other torso rail and or a torso area and therefore outside the space in the video frame that will receive low fall risk patient movement.

With further regard to the diagram of the seated patient in depicted in either or the set of fall risk state transition rules for a patient s upper torso in a seated position is different from the set of fall risk state transition rules for a patient s upper torso in a recumbent position. This make logical sense since the movement of a patient s upper torso will always proceed a fall when a patient is seated in a chair however when the patient is laying in a bed movement in the upper torso is far less definitive of a patient fall. It should be appreciated that the state transition rules may be entirely different for each position and or orientation of the patient.

By way of example suppose for a seated patient such as depicted in either or a new patient movement is detected in association with her upper torso in other words an ACTIVE event is detected in the upper torso area of the video frame. On one hand detecting upper torso patient movement for a seated patient is a key forerunner movement for other patient movements that might be a precursor to a fall but mere upper torso patient movement cannot in itself be indicative of a patient fall. Hence detecting an upper torso ACTIVE event for a seated patient will not elevate the patient fall risk state to a high fall level such as TRIGGER state where an alert is issued. However detecting an upper torso ACTIVE event for a seated patient may elevate the fall risk state to an intermediate risk level such as the LISTEN state see the exemplary set of fall risk state transition rules for events received for a seated patient in see also A E . As a sidebar for the seated patient example above clearly the patient will move her lower torso including hips and legs at some point prior to experiencing a fall however the vast majority of lower torso movement is usual and routine and simply not a reliable indication of a fall. Therefore ACTIVE events detected in the lower torso area of a seated patient can never be interpreted as a forerunner or precursor movement to a patient fall see again the exemplary set of fall risk state transition rules depicted in E . Consequently detecting a lower torso ACTIVE event cannot elevate a seated patient s fall risk state even if the patient is currently in an intermediate or elevated fall risk state. Optimally the sets of fall risk state transition rules are defined to reflect these scenarios.

In furtherance of the discussion of the previous example of upper torso patient movement and with regard to the exemplary set of fall risk state transition rules in no amount of upper torso patient movement will cause the fall risk state to enter a critical or TRIGGER fall risk state. That is no type of event occurrence corresponding to upper torso will cause the system to enter a critical TRIGGER fall risk state. Therefore patient events should be detected in a different location for the system to enter a critical fall risk state. With the patient fall risk in an elevated fall risk state one type of patient movement that may cause a state transition might be an event detected in an upper torso rail that bounds the patient s upper torso. Notice from the diagram that the fall risk state transition rules will prohibit the system entering directly into a critical fall risk state from events detected in an upper torso rail. However with the system in an elevated fall risk state LISTEN then the state transition rules associated with the upper torso rail for a seated patient used by the present noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction system will further elevate the patient fall risk state typically by entering a critical fall risk state such as the TRIGGER or highest numerical state.

Essentially the present noise correcting patient fall risk state system and method for predicting patient falls utilizes three integral processes for assessing the fall risk state of a patient video noise reduction and fall risk state. However fall risk state processing is dependent on several factors including the positions of parts of the patient s body and the associated fall risk state transition rules necessary for accelerating and decelerating a patient s fall risk state. These rules are as mentioned above dependent on the position and or orientation of the patient which is determined in the setup phase step . With the patient position and a set of fall risk state transition rules defined video processor receives video frames and processes them for changes between frames step . Video processing may utilize any one of several video procedures however it has been found to be advantageous for video processor to determine differential values weights for various pixel locations as well as predetermined area of pixels between the current frame and the cached weights at corresponding pixel locations for a background video frame for the purposes herein a background frame is one of the previous frames not necessarily the most recent previous video frame . The pixels weights and differential weights for the current video frame are then cached in the same manner as the background frame as the current video frame will become a background frame with the capture of a new current video frame. Other computations are also possible such as summing the total weights and or the total differential weights for all or predetermined areas of the pixel locations within a frame such as predetermined areas of pixels that bind a patient body part . These are needed for determining a type of event associated with a predetermined area of the video frame e.g. whether the type of event is an ACTIVE or INACTIVE . Typically at any one time the video cache may contain weights for each pixel location in the frame the difference weights for each pixel location in the frame and a plurality of total weights and or totals of difference weights for bound patient body parts corresponding to one two or more background previous video frames.

Optimally video processor processes a video frame only once and then caches that resultant information for one of the resident processes within the noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction system such as the noise reduction process the fall risk state process etc. that subsequently uses the information. Typically the system caches pixels weights with the location information for each of the pixels in the video frame. Those separate processes will then correlate pixel locations to predetermined areas within the video frame as defined by the respective process. Processing the video frame as a unit prior to subsequent noise and fall risk state processing as two distinct advantages over first subdividing the frame into the patient areas and processing each separately. First the noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction system utilizes the video information for determining whether or not to archive the current video frame without any subsequent processing. Changes in the pixel weights or the total weights between a background and current video frame indicate motion somewhere in the patient s room. Then the video system activates a patient video archive for saving the current video frame to a safe location for possible future use and review. Another advantage is that it reduces video processing complexity since events are usually defined as an amount of change between corresponding predetermined areas within video frames that exceeds a threshold. Thus it is necessary only to compare total weights for detecting an event within a predetermined area of the video frame as well as identifying the type of event . One exemplary video processing method is discussed in greater detail below with regard to .

Once the video process has been completed in the current frame a noise reduction process is invoked to cull frames with detected events that are likely noise related step . Although the use of the present fall risk state paradigm greatly reduces the frequency of false alarms over that of the prior art the frequency of alarms resulting from spurious noise can be even further reduced by implementing a noise reduction process directed at identifying events that have a high probability of being generated by noise. These events in general are characterized as being one time non repeating changes between video frames or more specifically between corresponding areas on a video frame and therefore cannot be correctly attributed to patient movements a typical patient movement continues over a plurality of video frames . One relatively effective noise reduction technique for discriminating events resulting from spurious noise is by only evaluating sequential frames in which corresponding like typed events have been detected. Spurious noise unlike patient movements is random and short lived typically occurring in only one frame. For example if an area of a background frame is INACTIVE the last event detected in the area was an INACTIVE type of event and an ACTIVE event is detected in the area for the current video frame the source of that ACTIVE event is recognized to be possible noise. The event is not accepted by the system and the area is re interrogated in the subsequent video frame for a subsequently occurring ACTIVE event. If it occurs then that ACTIVE event is attributed to motion and made available for fall risk state processing. Therefore if the frames are tested for events having a duration that lasts longer than a single frame most spurious noise can be eliminated as the event source. As a practical matter electronic noise improper grounding or power fluctuations result in very short lived events that generally will not repeat between pairs of video frames hence skipping a suspect frame or suspect areas within a frame will typically eliminate any noise based events detected between frames. Longer duration noise or noise that sweeps across the video over n successive video frames can be discriminated by comparing n 1 sequential frames. Skipping more that a single frame may also be necessary for eliminating noise from high speed video perhaps over 24 fps frames per second .

Once the noise has been eliminated as a source for the events detected for the separate patient body parts the fall risk state process is invoked step . The intent of fall risk state process is to determine the state of fall risk for the patient based on the current fall risk state events detected in the current video frame and sets of area specific fall risk state transition rules. Once the current fall risk state has been evaluated the process generally reverts to step for receiving the next video frame and proceeds from that step as discussed above. However in certain circumstances the patient s position within the patient room changes such as the patient being moved from the lavatory to a chair the process then reverts to the setup step and proceeds.

With further regard to fall risk state processing essentially the process should be performed for each frame providing an event occurs somewhere within the frame. Recall that the present noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction system will enter a new state under only two conditions the detection of an event ACTIVE or INACTIVE or the expiration of a predetermined time period for the current fall risk state. By testing the elapsed time in the current fall risk state against the predetermined time period for that state at each video frame the state processing can be omitted if the current video frame is free of events the process merely reverts to the video process for the next frame. Briefly however the fall risk state process performs three sub tasks 1 the process determines the current fall risk state 2 then the process assesses the elapsed time in the current fall risk state and compares the elapsed time to a time period for the current fall risk state if the time period has been exceeded the current fall risk state is updated typically by lowering the fall risk state to the next lower fall risk state to the current fall risk state but might instead be lowered to the lowest fall risk state or REST state and 3 finally the fall risk state process interrogates each bound patient body part within the video frame for an associated event and then updates the current fall risk state according to the fall risk state transition rules associated with the body part that moved ACTIVE or stopped moving INACTIVE thereby causing the event. The implementation of the fall risk state process may produce several seemingly conflicting fall risk states however in general with one exception that will be discussed below the highest fall risk state is selected as the current patient fall risk state. The implementation of these sub tasks will become more apparent through a discussion of a frame based fall risk state processing depicted in . An even more comprehensive description of the present fall risk state process is depicted in flowchart of in accordance with other aspects of exemplary embodiments of the present noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction invention.

Often the video process will detect events associated with multiple patient body parts. One advantage of the present noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction system is how the system interprets these seemingly conflicting events without issuing unnecessary and unwarranted patient fall alerts to the HCPs. First the fall risk state process determines the correct current patient fall risk state for the time that has elapsed for the current patient fall risk state step . Next the elapsed time in the current state is compared to a predetermined time period for the state. If the elapsed time exceeds the time period the system enters a new usually lower fall risk state i.e. the risk of a patient fall is downgraded to a lower fall risk state and the time period set for the new current risk state step .

With the correct current fall risk state and time period the fall risk state process next evaluates the events with respect to the separate patient body part s associated with the event s . A current fall risk state cannot be elevated to a higher fall risk state without patient movement detected in specific patient body parts. Specific of fall risk state transition rules apply to each patient body part so the system acquires the transition rules associated with the body parts associated with the detected events step . All other patient body parts within the video frame are excluded from evaluation by the fall risk state process thereby greatly reducing the processing complexity.

At this point the fall risk state process has identified changes between video frames and associated the changes with specific patient body parts that constitute events step . The fall risk state process finally updates the current fall risk state based on fall risk state transition rules and resets the time period accordingly step . Essentially the present noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction system places the patient in the highest fall risk state according to any of the fall risk state transition rules associated with any body part in which an event has occurred. It is possible or probable that events will occur in multiple patient body parts and these events will result in multiple conflicting patient fall risk states. However the fall risk state process culls all potential lower patient fall risk states to the exclusion of the highest detected patient fall risk state.

For example for a seated patient the current patient fall risk state is an intermediate patient fall risk state for instance a LISTEN state and events for the current video frame are detected for both the patient s upper torso and the patient s upper torso inner rail. For example with reference to the fall risk state transition rules of for a seated patient in the LISTEN fall risk state receiving ACTIVE events for both the upper torso and an inner torso rail will result in the system entering the TRIGGER state and an alert being issued for the following reasons. Any events detected for the upper torso in the LISTEN state require the system to enter reenter the LISTEN fall risk state the LISTEN state for the upper torso has no time period so the system effectively reenters the LISTEN state by detecting each ACTIVE event . Hence the system is apparently in a LISTEN fall risk state. However events detected for an inner torso rail in the LISTEN state require the system to enter the TRIGGER fall risk state. From the precedence of states in the second column the system cannot enter the LISTEN and TRIGGER state simultaneously so the higher state is selected. Notice however that the fall risk state transition rules allow for the system to enter both the LISTEN and NO WAIT states simultaneously. Therefore for the above example if the system is in a NO WAIT state and detects an event at the upper torso either ACTIVE or INACTIVE the system will enter the LISTEN NO WAIT states for at least the duration of the time period for the NO WAIT state.

The automated setup phase is similar to the manual setup with the exception of the noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction system analyzing a sample video frame for identifying patient body parts and locations. The process begins with the system analyzing the sample video frame for the patient step and then recognizes the patient the patient s position and orientation within the video frame step . Clearly the system may query the user for verification. Next the system binds the patient body part areas defined by the system to the patient step . It is expected that the system will work in video space so the system need not translate features to and from display space. With the patient and the patient s position and orientation known the present noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction system calls up a set of fall risk state transition rules corresponding to the patient s position and orientation step .

Binding patient body features is a relatively uncomplicated sub process but its importance to various exemplary embodiments of the present invention should not be overlooked. The aim of binding is to correlate an area of the video frame to a range of movement associated with a patient body part. The movement of a patient body part within that range has some significance to a patient s risk of falling. That is to correlate a patient body part movement area on the video frame to a range of patient fall risk states at least one fall risk state and not the entire gambit of risk states . For example defining a patient head area would be of little use unless certain head movements could be identified that are precursors to a patient fall. The primary exemplary body parts that have some movement significance to a patient fall are the upper torso the lower torso and a plurality of upper and lower torso movement rails that run adjacent to portions of the upper and lower torsos. The extent of the binding area should define a fall risk range of movement i.e. the upper torso should not be defined so large as to encompass patient movements that run the entire spectrum of elevated fall risks e.g. NO WAIT through TRIGGER.

Returning to the flowchart on the binding process begins by identifying patient body features step . Next areas of the video frame are identified as corresponding to the respective patient body features step . The shapes orientations and positions of the areas are predetermined based on for instance the respective body features with respect to the patient s position and orientation within the video frame. In addition state transition rules associated with each predetermined patient area also correlate to the patient s position and orientation. Because each body feature has a potentially different range of patient body part movement that are of some significance to a patient s risk the extent of the binding areas may differ depending on the patient s orientation in the viewport video frame . Compare for instance upper torso with lower torso in with that in but also the extent of upper torso in the different patient orientation as shown in and . Finally the system binds the patient body part movement areas on the video frame defined by the system to the respective patient body parts that may move within or into those areas step . With the fall risk state process set up and the predetermined areas bound the noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction system could directly invoke fall risk state process however any system noise that may be present could result in the system improperly entering a higher fall risk state or possibly issuing a false alarm fall alert.

System noise especially of an electronic and electrical nature greatly increase the volume of false alarms issued by present noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction system because many false alarms are treated as patient events that cause the system to enter a critical fall risk state TRIGGER state . However in general changes in video frames from electrical and electronic noise originating from noisy electrical electronic components improper grounding or power fluctuations can be distinguished from motion captured by the video camera by its duration. Generally electrical and electronic noise result in very short lived events that generally will not repeat between pairs of video frames hence skipping a suspect frame or suspect areas within a frame will typically eliminate any noise based events detected between frames.

The process begins subsequent to the video processing by video processor with processor in patient monitoring device receiving information for a new video frame referred to as the current video frame step . As discussed above typically the noise reduction process as well as the fall risk state process usually do not receive and process the video frames themselves but instead only receive the pixel weight total weight and total difference weight information from the video processor or memory cache for the current video frame and or usually for a background video frame.

Next the predetermined areas of the current video frame are examined for event activity that is to detect ACTIVE events step . Essentially the noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction system classifies each predetermined area as being ACTIVE containing temporal changes above a predetermined threshold amount or INACTIVE containing no temporal changes above the predetermined threshold amount based on whether the total weight of the predetermined areas in a current video frame differs from the total weight of the corresponding predetermined areas in a background video frame. Changes or differences in the weights are determined on a pixel by pixel correspondence for every pixel that contributes to an area. The total difference for an area is summed and the total difference should exceed a motion threshold amount for the respective predetermined area to be considered ACTIVE or more correctly that an ACTIVE event occurred within the area. ACTIVE events may indicate motion in the area but only if noise can be ruled out as a source for the event. Similarly a change from INACTIVE to ACTIVE for a corresponding predetermined area between the current and a previous background video frame is also an indication of motion in that area of the current video frame however in that case noise cannot be ruled out as the source of the event. Therefore in accordance with one exemplary embodiment of the present invention the noise reduction process invokes the fall risk state process only when all ACTIVE events in the current video frame correspond to an ACTIVE event in the background video frame.

If no ACTIVE events are detected noise cannot be present in the current video frame so it can be accepted as a background video frame step and then fall risk state processed. As will be discussed below while the detection ACTIVE events are paramount in elevating a fall risk state INACTIVE events play an important role for entering into lower risk states. Therefore even though the current video frame may not have any ACTIVE events the frame will be fall risk state processed. Again notwithstanding the video archival process the information from the video processor corresponding to the current video frame is saved for further processing and usually not the current video frame itself.

If at step one or more of the predetermined areas within the current images frame are ACTIVE the process continues at step for comparing ACTIVE areas in the current video frame with the corresponding predetermined areas in the background video frame. Here the aim is to discover if all of the ACTIVE events detected in the current video frame transcend multiple video frames that is determine if the duration of the activity exceeds the maximum duration of noise i.e. one video frame. Therefore if any of the ACTIVE areas in the current video frame was not active in the background frame then noise cannot be ruled out as a source of the events in the current video. The current video frame therefore cannot be fall risk state processed but may be saved as a background frame for future comparisons with new video frames step .

If one or more predetermined areas of the current video frame are ACTIVE and those ACTIVE areas were also ACTIVE in the background frame then the source of the activity cannot be noise because the duration of the ACTIVE event s transcends multiple image frames at least two . Therefore since the events detected in the current video cannot be from noise the information relating to the current video frame is cached as a background frame step and the fall risk state process is invoked for the current video frame step .

It should be appreciated that the noise reduction process treats all newly detected ACTIVE events in any corresponding area between consecutive video frames as being generated by noise and culls information from that frame from subsequent the fall risk state processing. In other words if a new INACTIVE event is detected in any predetermined area fall risk state processing continues as normal for that particular video frame or if an ACTIVE event is detected in a predetermine area in which an ACTIVE event was detected in the previous video frame fall risk state processing also continues as normal. However the video frame that a new ACTIVE event is detected that is an ACTIVE event that does not correlate to an ACTIVE corresponding area in the previous video frame that ACTIVE event cannot be used by the system for determining the patient s fall risk state.

Once a current video frame has been examined and passed by the noise reduction process for spurious noise the fall risk state process is invoked. is a flowchart depicting a method for processing patient fall risk states from changes detected between video frames in accordance with one exemplary embodiment of the present invention. Here the present description is slightly more comprehensive than those discussed with regard to including for instance a description of the time in state testing that typically proceeds the fall risk state evaluation. Essentially the fall risk state process of the present noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction system utilizes four pieces of information for determining the current fall risk state for a patient 1 the current fall risk state 2 a set of fall risk state transition rules associated with the part of the patient body part being evaluated the predetermined area of the video frame 3 the elapsed time in the present fall risk state and 4 current event information. The interactions and relationships between these four types of information can be visualized diagrammatically for instance in the truth tables depicted in for a patient in a recumbent position and one in a sitting position respectively or in the generic sample state process illustrated on the tables depicted on for two distinct patient positions and also as a set of fall risk state transition rules for various patient position as depicted in for a set of fall risk states consisting of REST WAIT NO WAIT LISTEN NO WAIT LISTEN and TRIGGER each in two distinct but generic patient positions.

The fall risk state process begins by receiving the next current video frame or more correctly the information from video processor associated with the current video frame step . The current fall risk state of the system is determined usually from the last iteration of the fall risk state process step and the time in state TIS for the current fall risk state is checked against the time period for the current fall risk state step . If the time period for the current fall risk state has expired the fall risk state process invokes the fall risk state transition FRST rules step to determine the correct fall risk state for the system usually the next lower fall risk state step . The fall risk state process proceeds by identifying and evaluating each of the predetermined areas in the current video frame steps through .

If however the time in state has not expired the fall risk state process then identifies the predetermined area in the current video frame to be evaluated step . Once an area is identified the fall risk state process determines if the identified area is relevant to the current fall risk state step . Merely because a patient event is detected in some predetermined area it does not necessarily follow that the present noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction system will enter into a new fall risk state. Some patient movements are simply not relevant for predicting a patient fall and therefore some events are not relevant to the current fall risk state. Some of these events occur in predetermined areas that cannot cause a state transition. For example using the truth table in assuming the present noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction system is in the LISTEN risk state any events that are detected in the upper torso predetermined area cannot cause the system to change states therefore for an example using the truth table of the upper torso predetermined area need not be evaluated by the fall risk state process in the LISTEN state. In that case the system determined if that was the last predetermined area in the video frame to be evaluated if so the system determined a new current fall risk state from the areas that were evaluated step . This step is merely optimizes fall risk state processing by evaluating only relevant areas and may be skipped if desired by evaluating all areas regardless of their relevance to the current state.

Assuming at step the predetermined area is relevant to the current fall risk state than an event detected in that area might cause the system to enter a new fall risk state. In that case the system evaluates the information from the video processor for an event in the area step . If no event is detected the method again reverts to step for another predetermined area as discussed above. If however at step an event is detected in the present predetermined area that event may cause the system to enter a new fall risk state either a higher or lower risk state. The event is identified step for the current exemplary process the event may be an ACTIVE event or an INACTIVE event. With the event type known the fall risk state transition rules are invoked step and the system determines a new fall risk state and time period for the new state based on the type of event detected in the predetermined body area for the current fall risk state based on the fall risk state transition rules step . That state is then held in a cache step until all of the predetermined areas of the video frame are evaluated by the fall risk state process. The process then iterates through steps and until every predetermined area in the video frame has been evaluated.

Here it should be appreciated that while not probable it is possible for events to occur simultaneous in several predetermined areas of the current video frame. Ordinarily this is a conflict that should be resolved but since the purpose of the present noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction system is to determine the highest fall risk state for the patient and then issue a fall alert whenever appropriate the system will eventually resolve all fall risk states in the cache in favor of the highest patient risk state see again step . The fall risk state process then continues with information from the next noise free video frame.

The present noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction system has been described above at a relatively high level that will enable one of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the present invention and allow for a wide variety of changes and modifications without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention. depict a flowchart of a relatively low level implementation of one aspect of the present invention. This embodiment is not meant to limit the practice of the present invention of pending claims but is intended to give the artisans one practical application of the methods discussed above in view of for example the exemplary fall risk state transition rules from the truth tables depicted in and in the generic sample state process illustrated on the tables depicted on and exemplary fall risk state transition rules for various patient position as depicted in . The present flowchart will be discussed at essentially a video pixel level hence much of the process will be performed by video processor in conjunction with processor . Careful attention should be paid to the nomenclatures listed below the flowchart in .

The process begins by receiving a video frame step and converting the pixel color information from the image to standard color component format suitable for frame processing step . Next for each pixel in the video frame step in a pixel by pixel mode determining the information for the video frame that will be used for noise reduction and fall risk state processing states through . Initially the pixel s address is identified in the frame step along with color information weights for a corresponding background pixel step which is used to determine an actual color difference for each color component step and then the total difference and the absolute difference of the components step . The total difference are summed as are the absolute total differences step and then the value of the background color components are adjusted by of the value of the actual differences step .

Next the pixel is tested against a threshold pixel noise level to determine if the sum of the difference should be retained that is whether exceed some preset pixel noise threshold step if so is retained step .

In either case the sum of the differences is compared to preset maximum pixel difference and minimum pixel difference for determining a pixel divisor DIVISOR . If it is larger than the preset pixel maximum step then the pixel divisor is equivalent to the pixel divisor plus a preset maximum divisor value DIVISOR DIVISOR DIVISOR step if it is smaller than the preset pixel minimum 

Finally the total difference for the video frame is determined as the sum of all the absolute total pixel differences step and the process iteratively returns to step until all pixels in the current video frame have been received. At that point the system reduces the value of the DIVISOR DIVISOR DIVISOR 256 step and calculates a new total difference of the pixels components in the frame using the divisor DIVISOR step and then saves that value step .

Next the total difference of the pixels components in the frame for the current video frame is tested for activity against a preset maximum total frame difference step . If exceeds frame F is active step meaning the present noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction system has detected motion in the patient s room although not necessarily patient movement. In that case the current video frame F is fall risk state processed step the fall risk state process is depicted in . If does not exceed step frame F is inactive step and optionally the process may continue by saving the frame pixel color information DIVISOR DIVISOR and the state process information as background step and returning to step for another video frame. Here it should be noted that this assumes that INACTIVE type events will not cause the present noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction system to enter a new fall risk state. In accordance with a more practical application of the present invention whether or not the current video frame F is active the system invokes the fall risk state process. Here the determination of activity within the current video frame F serves only to initiate the frame archival process.

Returning to step at some point the fall risk state process is invoked and the noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction system evaluates each of the predetermined patient body areas for activity individually step . The fall risk state process begins with predetermined area A of the current video frame F and calculates total difference of pixels for area A for the pixel addresses that correspond to area A step . The fall risk state process next updates the value of the DIVISOR for area A based on the DIVISOR values for the pixels in the area pixel by pixel DIVISOR DIVISOR DIVISOR step and then reduces the DIVISORby a factor of 256 DIVISOR DIVISOR 256 step and normalizes the total difference of pixels for area A to the DIVISOR DIVISOR step for comparison with a preset total maximum difference of pixels for area A step . If the total difference of pixels exceeds the preset total maximum difference of pixels for area A then AREA A is active or more particularly an ACTIVE event has been detected within area A step . If not area A is inactive or it might be said that an INACTIVE event has been detected within area A step . In either case the system reverts to step until all patient body parts within the predetermined areas of video frame F have been evaluated. At that point the present noise correcting patient fall risk state prediction system tests the active areas for noise that is determines if any active areas were not active in the background frame step . If noise is detected in the areas of frame F then the fall risk state process will not use the activity information from frame F to enter a new fall risk state but instead will retain the current fall risk state for use with the next current video frame step . If no noise is detected in the areas of frame F then the fall risk state process will use the activity information in concert with the fall risk state transition rules to determine whether or not to enter a new fall risk state step . In either case the background information is updated for frame F e.g. the new pixel color information and DIVISOR DIVISOR DIVISOR for each of the predetermined areas in frame F and the fall risk state information step and a new current video frame F received step . The process continues iteratively with each new video frame.

The exemplary embodiments described below were selected and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. The particular embodiments described below are in no way intended to limit the scope of the present invention as it may be practiced in a variety of variations and environments without departing from the scope and intent of the invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiment shown but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and features described herein.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems which perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

