---

title: Proximity based recommendations
abstract: Disclosed are various embodiments for providing proximity-based product recommendations. A computing device detects an interaction between a product and a user. The computing device provides to the user a recommendation of another product, based at least in part on proximity between the another product and the location of the product in the detected product interaction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09600840&OS=09600840&RS=09600840
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09600840
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120521
---
A customer s shopping experience can be enhanced in various ways by mobile computing devices. As one example mobile computing devices allow a customer to obtain detailed product information and product reviews when viewing or evaluating the product. As another example mobile computing devices allow a customer to find a product at one store then check the price of the same product at another store.

The present disclosure relates to product recommendations and more specifically to recommendations based on the proximity of a mobile user to other products. In various embodiments disclosed herein a user s current location is tracked through a mobile client device having some sort of location awareness. The interaction of a mobile user with various products is also monitored which may include active and passive product interactions. For example the user may move through a store and actively interact with products for example by scanning a barcode or taking a photo. The user may also have various passive product interactions such as passing by a product having a near field communication NFC tag a radio frequency identifier RFID tag a Bluetooth low energy BLE transmitter or other types of product transmitters

As various mobile client devices report product interactions product location information is derived from the reported interactions and stored as product location data. Thus a database of product location information can be built over time. The product information reported by mobile users may be supplemented with product location information that is provided by merchants.

The mobile client device uses this current location to request a proximity based product recommendation from a computing device that is accessible over a network such as the Internet. In some cases the mobile client device also includes product interaction information. The computing device identifies other products that are physically proximate to the user s location. If product interaction information is provided the computing device may identify product that are physically proximate and that are relevant to product s with which the user has recently interacted. For example if the user passes by an aisle containing potato chips the recommendation service may recommend that the user buy soft drinks if data collected on customer behavior shows that users who buy potato chips are also likely to buy soft drinks. In making proximity based recommendations the service may take into account various types of data such as user specific purchase history aggregate user purchase history as well as other types of data. In the following discussion a general description of the system and its components is provided followed by a discussion of the operation of the same.

With reference to shown is a networked environment according to various embodiments. The networked environment includes one or more computing devices in data communication with one or more mobile client computing devices by way of a network . The network includes for example the Internet intranets extranets wide area networks WANs local area networks LANs wired networks wireless networks or other suitable networks etc. or any combination of two or more such networks.

The computing device may comprise for example a server computer or any other system providing computing capability. Alternatively a plurality of computing devices may be employed that are arranged for example in one or more server banks or computer banks or other arrangements. A plurality of computing devices together may comprise for example a cloud computing resource a grid computing resource and or any other distributed computing arrangement. Such computing devices may be located in a single installation or may be distributed among many different geographical locations. For purposes of convenience the computing device is referred to herein in the singular. Even though the computing device is referred to in the singular it is understood that a plurality of computing devices may be employed in the various arrangements as described above.

Various applications and or other functionality may be executed in the computing device according to various embodiments. The components executed on the computing device include for example a behavior tracking service a similarities service and a proximity based recommendation service . Also various data is stored in a data store that is accessible to the computing device . The data store may be representative of a plurality of data stores as can be appreciated. The data stored in the data store for example is associated with the operation of the various applications and or functional entities described below. The data stored in the data store includes for example user behavior data aggregate user behavior data product location data one or more product catalogs and potentially other data.

The behavior tracking service is executed to track user interaction with products thus building a history of products that a particular user has handled a history of products with which the user has come into proximity and or a history of products that a user has purchased. The behavior tracking service is also executed to track user proximity with merchants or stores. The data derived by the behavior tracking service from this user interaction is stored as user behavior data .

The similarities service is executed to return one or more items that are similar to an input item. The similarities service uses the aggregate user behavior data to determine similarity. Where the user behavior data is associated with specific users the aggregate user behavior data is an aggregation of behavior tracking data from multiple users. For example item B may be deemed to be similar to item A under the following conditions users who buy item A also buy item B users who handle item A also handle item B users who handle item A also buy item B. Similarity may also be determined based at least in part on relationships between items in the product catalogs . As one example similarity may be determined based on whether items are members of a set or collection e.g. a series of books or videos . As another example similarity may be determined based on or whether one item is marked as a variation of another item e.g. a media title on DVD and the same title on Blu Ray . As yet another example similarity may be determined based on product categories such that products in the same category or subcategory are deemed to be similar to each other.

The proximity based recommendation service is executed to generate a recommendation indicating that a user may be interested in a particular product based at least in part on the current location of the user and the location of products with which the user has recently interacted. The proximity based recommendation service obtains the current location of a user and utilizes the aggregate user behavior data to determine similarity. Where the user behavior data is associated with specific users the aggregate user behavior data is an aggregation of behavior tracking data from multiple users.

In various embodiments the components executed on the computing device may utilize any type of middleware framework to communicate with each other or with applications executing on a mobile client computing device . Examples of such frameworks include remote procedure calls service oriented architecture protocol SOAP representational state transfer REST Windows Communication Foundation and other frameworks. Although described herein as separate components the functionality of the various components can also be combined as should be appreciated.

The mobile client computing device is representative of a plurality of mobile client devices that may be coupled to the network . The mobile client computing device may comprise for example a processor based system such as a computer system. Such a computer system may be embodied in the form of a smart phone a cellular telephone a personal digital assistant an electronic book reader a portable navigation system a music player a video player a media player a web pad a tablet computer system a game console a laptop computer or other devices with like capability. The mobile client computing device may have an integrated display but may also be capable of attaching to another display or coupling to another device and using the display of the coupled device.

The mobile client computing device may be configured to execute various applications such as a product recommendation application a product identification component and a location detection component . The mobile client computing device may be configured to execute other applications such as for example browsers email applications instant message applications navigation applications and or other applications.

The location detection component is executed in the mobile client computing device to detect the current location of the mobile client computing device and by extension of the user carrying the mobile client computing device . Various technologies may be used to implement the location detection component for example a global positioning system GPS an assisted global positioning system A GPS a wireless local area network WiFi positioning system or a wireless network WiMax positioning system. The location detection component may rely on specialized hardware residing in the mobile client computing device such as a GPS transceiver a WiFi transceiver and or a WiMax transceiver as should be appreciated. The location detection component may also rely on other specialized hardware separate from the mobile client computing device such as a GPS satellite network one or more WiFi access points and or one or more WiMax access points as should be appreciated.

In some embodiments the location detection component does not provide an absolute location in terms of geographic coordinates but instead provides a notification that the mobile client computing device is at a particular location based on detecting a specific signal associated with a store or merchant. For example a merchant may install a transmitter at the store entrance that performs a handshake with the mobile client computing device by which the mobile client computing device learns the identity of the merchant e.g. Target and or the specific location of the retail location Target at 1234 Washington St. 30338 . In some embodiments the handshake also provides the merchant with the identity of the mobile client computing device and or the user associated with the device.

The product identification component is executed in the mobile client computing device to obtain product identifiers for products with which the user of the mobile client computing device interacts. Some forms of obtaining product identifiers are passive such as reading radio frequency identifiers RFIDs or near field communications NFC identifiers from products that are in proximity to the mobile client computing device . Other forms of obtaining product identifiers are active that is the activity is initiated by the user. For example the user may utilize the product identification component to obtain a product identifier by scanning a barcode by taking a photo of a barcode or by taking a photo of a product. The product recommendation application may perform image recognition of a product barcode or a product photo in order to identify the product or may instead utilize a local or remote service that performs the image recognition. The barcode may take the form of a one dimensional linear barcode a two dimensional barcode also known as a QR code or any other type of barcode.

The product recommendation application may be executed in the mobile client computing device to request recommendations from the proximity based recommendation service that is executing in the computing device . To this end the product recommendation application provides to the proximity based recommendation service the user s current location and identifiers of product s with which the user has interacted. In some embodiments the recommendations are requested without an explicit request by the user. In other embodiments the user may explicitly instruct the proximity based recommendation service to provide a recommendation.

The product recommendation application may also allow a customer to explicitly request more information about a particular product with which the user interacts. For example the user may provide a product identifier to the product recommendation application and the product recommendation application may then provide further details about the product including price reviews and so on. The product recommendation application may be implemented as a standalone application or may be executed in the context of a browser as should be appreciated.

Next a general description of the operation of the various components of the networked environment is provided. To begin a mobile customer carrying a mobile client computing device visits a store or retail location with a physical presence. Such stores are commonly referred to as brick and mortar to distinguish them from electronic commerce merchants with which a customer interacts online. While in the store the customer interacts with one or more products either passively or actively. As one example of passive use the mobile client computing device in close proximity to a product may read an identifier from a radio frequency RF tag attached to co located with or otherwise associated with the product. Other forms of near field communication NFC may also be utilized by the mobile client computing device to interact with a product without requiring involvement by the customer. Turning now to active interaction with a product one example of active interaction is the customer utilizing the mobile client computing device to scan or to take a photo of a barcode. As another example of active interaction with a product the customer may utilize the mobile client computing device to take a photo of a product and then the mobile client computing device may perform image recognition on the photo to identify a particular product.

While the customer is at the store the mobile client computing device also periodically determines the current position or location of the device. As noted above various technologies may be used to obtain the current location such as GPS and WiFi triangulation. After the customer has interacted with at least one product the mobile client computing device may communicate with the computing device to make a request for a proximity based product recommendation. The request may be made automatically on behalf of the user or may be made in response to an explicit request by the user. The mobile client computing device may provide configuration options which allow the user to set the frequency of automatic requests to disable the automatic request feature and so on.

The recommendation request transmitted by the mobile client computing device includes the location of the mobile client computing device and thus by extension of the user. In some embodiments the location detection component executing in the mobile client computing device is queried at the time of the recommendation request to provide increased accuracy. In other embodiments a recent determination of the location of the mobile client device is used unless the most recent determination is older than a predefined threshold in which case the location detection component may be queried for a more up to date location.

The recommendation request transmitted by the mobile client computing device also includes information about one or more of the products with which the user has recently interacted. For example the mobile client computing device may include the last five product interactions or the product interactions in the last five minutes or all the product interactions since the last request for a proximity based recommendation. The product interaction information may include a product identifier. In some embodiments additional information about the interaction itself is included such as the mechanism used to detect the interaction the time of the interactions or other information. As various mobile client computing devices report product interactions to the proximity based recommendation service the service derives product location information from the reported interactions and stores this information as product location data . Thus over time the proximity based recommendation service can build a database of product location information. The product information reported by mobile users may be used to supplement product location information that is provided by merchants.

Upon receiving a request for a proximity based recommendation the computing device uses product location data to identify products that are logically or physically proximate to the mobile client computing device . From a set of such proximate product candidates the computing device selects one or more that are relevant to the product s with which the user has recently interacted. Factors used in determining relevance may include product types or categories similarity of the candidate product to the recently interacted with product past shopping behavior of the user aggregate shopping behavior of other users and so on. The computing device then provides a recommendation of the selected relevant and proximate products. The recommendation may include product identifiers product description price and so on. In some embodiments the product recommendation may also indicate a recommended store if the proximate and relevant product is available at a store other than the one at which the user is currently shopping.

The mobile client computing device provides the proximity based recommendation to the user for example on a user interface within the product recommendation application or in the form of a network page rendered by a browser executing in the mobile client computing device . The user may then choose whether to act on the recommendation. If the user acts on the recommendation the mobile client computing device may gather additional information from the user s purchase and provide this purchase information to the computing device . The user then continues the shopping experience which may include visiting another store in which case the product recommendation application may continue to provide proximity based recommendations while the user is in the next store.

Turning now to shown is an example of a user interface rendered by product recommendation application for display on a mobile client computing device . User interface includes an application title Mobile Recommendations and a recommendation area . The recommendation area includes text informing the user that the application of the detected product category. In the example show in the product recommendation application has determined that the mobile user has been shopping for plumbing products based on detected product interactions. The recommended products area includes specific product recommendations provided by the proximity based recommendation service that is executing in the computing device . In this example the recommended products area includes four different hand tools which are associated with plumbing projects.

Moving on to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of a portion of the product recommendation application according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the product recommendation application as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the mobile client computing device according to one or more embodiments.

Beginning at box the product recommendation application detects at least one interaction between a user of the mobile client computing device and a product in physical proximity to the user. Such product interaction may be passively detected without user involvement for example by reading radio signals from tags attached to co located with or otherwise associated with a product. The product interaction may be active and directed by the user as when the user scans a barcode takes a photo of a product or enters a product identifier as text. In some embodiments after detecting product interactions the application may report product location information to the proximity based recommendation service that is executing in the computing device . The service may store product location information reported from various mobile users as product location data .

Next at box the product recommendation application obtains from the location detection component executing on the mobile client computing device the current location of the mobile client computing device . At box the product recommendation application requests a proximity based recommendation from the proximity based recommendation service that is executing in the computing device . The product recommendation application provides in conjunction with the request the current location of the mobile client computing device as obtained at box . In some embodiments the application also provides in conjunction with the request an identifier of one or more products with which the user has recently interacted as obtained at box . In cases in which no product interactions have been detected the application may retrieve product location data from the from proximity based recommendation service .

At box the product recommendation application receives a response to the recommendation request made at box . The recommendation includes information describing and or identifying the recommended product s . Next at box the product recommendation application provides the recommendation to the user of the mobile client computing device for example by rendering a network page on a browser screen. The process of is then complete.

Although not explicitly shown in the flowchart of the product recommendation application may run in the background. As may be appreciated in such embodiments the product recommendation application may continue to detect additional product interactions continue to update the user s location and continue to request and provide recommendations as this new information is obtained.

With reference now to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of a portion of the proximity based recommendation service according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the proximity based recommendation service as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in the computing device according to one or more embodiments.

Beginning at box the proximity based recommendation service receives a request for a proximity based product recommendation from the product recommendation application executing on a mobile client computing device . At box the proximity based recommendation service obtains from the request the user s location. The proximity based recommendation service may also obtain information about a product with which the user has interacted if such information is included in the request. The product interaction information includes a product identifier or description and may include additional information about the interaction itself. For example the product interaction information may specify whether the user s interaction with the product was passive or active the mechanism used to detect the interaction e.g. barcode photo radio frequency tag user search query etc. the time of the user s interaction and so on.

Next at box the proximity based recommendation service identifies a set of one or more products that are logically or physically proximate to the user s location using product location data . Such products can be identified in various ways. In one embodiment the proximity based recommendation service receives product location information transmitted by the products themselves. For example individual products may have radio frequency tags or groups of products may be co located or otherwise associated with a wireless transceiver that broadcasts location information for the individual products in the group. The service may update the product location data as such information is provided by the products or groups of products.

In another embodiment the proximity based recommendation service obtains product location information from merchants stores and or retailers. The service may update the product location data as such information is provided by merchants. Such product location information may be provided as part of an electronic product catalog that also includes other types of product information. The merchant may make these products in the electronic catalog available through an electronic commerce application. The merchants may also provide the proximity based recommendation service with inventory or other information regarding availability of products. The operator of the proximity based recommendation service may provide an incentive for merchants to share product location information in the form of revenue sharing.

In yet another embodiment the proximity based recommendation service aggregates reports of product interactions from multiple users to dynamically learn the locations of products that are stocked by merchants stores and or retailers as users interact with those products. The proximity based recommendation service may increase the reliability of location information obtained in this manner by requiring a threshold number of reported product interactions before relying on the information or by using the time date of these product interactions to discard old information.

Next at box the proximity based recommendation service selects one or more products from the set of proximate product candidates as recommended products based at least on the product interaction information included in the recommendation request. As explained earlier such information indicates a product with which the user has recently interacted in some manner. The interaction may be passive such as when the mobile client computing device reads a radio frequency tag or receives a broadcast from a transmitter associated with the device. The interaction may be active such as when the user scans the barcode from a product takes a photo of the product or enters an identifier such as a stock keeping unit SKU or Universal Product Code UPC via a keyboard. In any case the proximity based recommendation service uses the identity of the product in the interaction to select from the set of proximate products those product s which are likely to be of interest to the user. For example if the user is shopping in a supermarket and has passed by a box of cookies the service may recommend milk to the user. The proximity based recommendation service may utilize similarities service to determine which products are similar to the product in the reported interaction. As explained earlier the similarities service may uses data reported by multiple users and stored as aggregate user behavior data in order to determine similarities.

The proximity based recommendation service may provide recommendations with various levels of specificity. For example the service may make a general recommendation of milk as a product or a more specific recommendation that the user purchase milk at the same store. As another example if the user is shopping in a home improvement store and has scanned the barcode for a can of paint the service may recommend that the user purchase the same paint at another home improvement store in the same general vicinity. The level of specificity may be tied to the resolution of the location information.

The recommendation may be based on factors other than the user location and recent product interaction information. For example the proximity based recommendation service may take into account one or more types of user behavior data which may include a history of purchases by the user a history of product interactions a history of merchants visited by the user and so on. The proximity based recommendation service may also take into account promotions sale or special events associated with particular merchants when making recommendations.

At box the proximity based recommendation service provides the recommendation to the user by sending it to the requesting mobile client computing device . The recommendation may be provided in various forms. For example the service may generate a network page for rendering by a browser executing on the mobile client computing device or the service may provide information about the recommended product s which the mobile client computing device uses to generate a local network page.

Various types of information may be included in the recommendation. For example the service may provide limited information that merely identifies the recommended product and optionally a recommended merchant. As another example the service may provide identifying information as well as product details. The service may also provide pricing information such as the purchase price at the user s current location the purchase price at other merchants in the general vicinity and the purchase price at one or more merchants having an online presence. The process of is then complete.

In the embodiment discussed in connection with the mobile client computing device provides both a current user location and one or more product interactions and the proximity based recommendation service uses both of these types of data to make a recommendation. In another embodiment the proximity based recommendation service uses current user location to make the proximity based recommendation without the use of product interaction data. For example the mobile client computing device may indicate that the user is at a particular physical location and the proximity based recommendation service may look up the store that corresponds to this location and further the department or aisle of the particular store. The service may then recognize that the user is in the soft drink aisle and recommend that the user purchase potato chips or other snack foods without the user having interacted with any soft drink products. In yet another embodiment the proximity based recommendation service uses detected product interactions but not current user location to make the proximity based recommendation. For example the mobile client computing device may indicate that the user has passed by one or more soft drink products by detecting RFID tags co located with such products and the proximity based recommendation service may recommend that the user purchase potato chips or other snack foods without being informed about the user s actual location.

Moving on to shown is a schematic block diagram of the computing device according to an embodiment of the present disclosure. The computing device includes at least one processor circuit for example having a processor and a memory both of which are coupled to a local interface . To this end the computing device may comprise for example at least one server computer or like device. The local interface may comprise for example a data bus with an accompanying address control bus or other bus structure as can be appreciated.

Stored in the memory are both data and several components that are executable by the processor . In particular stored in the memory and executable by the processor are the behavior tracking service the similarities service the proximity based recommendation service and potentially other applications. Also stored in the memory may be a data store and other data. In addition an operating system may be stored in the memory and executable by the processor . While not illustrated the mobile client computing device also include components like those shown in where by the product identification component the location detection component and the product recommendation application are stored in a memory and executable by a processor.

It is understood that there may be other applications that are stored in the memory and are executable by the processors as can be appreciated. Where any component discussed herein is implemented in the form of software any one of a number of programming languages may be employed such as for example C C C OBJECTIVE C JAVA JAVASCRIPT PERL PHP VISUAL BASIC PYTHON RUBY DELPHI FLASH or other programming languages.

A number of software components are stored in the memory and are executable by the processor . In this respect the term executable means a program file that is in a form that can ultimately be run by the processor . Examples of executable programs may be for example a compiled program that can be translated into machine code in a format that can be loaded into a random access portion of the memory and run by the processor source code that may be expressed in proper format such as object code that is capable of being loaded into a random access portion of the memory and executed by the processor or source code that may be interpreted by another executable program to generate instructions in a random access portion of the memory to be executed by the processor etc. An executable program may be stored in any portion or component of the memory including for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard drive solid state drive USB flash drive memory card optical disc such as compact disc CD or digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk magnetic tape or other memory components.

The memory is defined herein as including both volatile and nonvolatile memory and data storage components. Volatile components are those that do not retain data values upon loss of power. Nonvolatile components are those that retain data upon a loss of power. Thus the memory may comprise for example random access memory RAM read only memory ROM hard disk drives solid state drives USB flash drives memory cards accessed via a memory card reader floppy disks accessed via an associated floppy disk drive optical discs accessed via an optical disc drive magnetic tapes accessed via an appropriate tape drive and or other memory components or a combination of any two or more of these memory components. In addition the RAM may comprise for example static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM and other such devices. The ROM may comprise for example a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other like memory device.

Also the processor may represent multiple processors and the memory may represent multiple memories that operate in parallel processing circuits respectively. In such a case the local interface may be an appropriate network that facilitates communication between any two of the multiple processors between any processor and any of the memories or between any two of the memories etc. The local interface may comprise additional systems designed to coordinate this communication including for example performing load balancing. The processor may be of electrical or of some other available construction.

Although the behavior tracking service the similarities service the proximity based recommendation service the product identification component the location detection component the product recommendation application and other various systems described herein may be embodied in software or code executed by general purpose hardware as discussed above as an alternative the same may also be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software general purpose hardware and dedicated hardware. If embodied in dedicated hardware each can be implemented as a circuit or state machine that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include but are not limited to discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of one or more data signals application specific integrated circuits having appropriate logic gates or other components etc. Such technologies are generally well known by those skilled in the art and consequently are not described in detail herein.

The flowcharts of show the functionality and operation of an implementation of portions of the product recommendation application and the proximity based recommendation service . If embodied in software each block may represent a module segment or portion of code that comprises program instructions to implement the specified logical function s . The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that comprises human readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that comprises numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as a processor in a computer system or other system. The machine code may be converted from the source code etc. If embodied in hardware each block may represent a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement the specified logical function s .

Although the flowcharts of show a specific order of execution it is understood that the order of execution may differ from that which is depicted. For example the order of execution of two or more blocks may be scrambled relative to the order shown. Also two or more blocks shown in succession in may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Further in some embodiments one or more of the blocks shown in may be skipped or omitted. In addition any number of counters state variables warning semaphores or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement or providing troubleshooting aids etc. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present disclosure.

Also any logic or application described herein including behavior tracking service the similarities service the proximity based recommendation service the product identification component the location detection component and the product recommendation application that comprises software or code can be embodied in any non transitory computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system such as for example a processor in a computer system or other system. In this sense the logic may comprise for example statements including instructions and declarations that can be fetched from the computer readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. In the context of the present disclosure a computer readable medium can be any medium that can contain store or maintain the logic or application described herein for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system. The computer readable medium can comprise any one of many physical media such as for example magnetic optical or semiconductor media. More specific examples of a suitable computer readable medium would include but are not limited to magnetic tapes magnetic floppy diskettes magnetic hard drives memory cards solid state drives USB flash drives or optical discs. Also the computer readable medium may be a random access memory RAM including for example static random access memory SRAM and dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM . In addition the computer readable medium may be a read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other type of memory device.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

