---

title: Systems and techniques for reducing power consumption in a mobile computing device
abstract: Various embodiments are directed to systems and techniques for reducing power consumption in a mobile computing device. In one or more embodiments, a mobile computing device may be arranged to determine a user environment based on detected antenna impedance or detected current. After the user environment is determined, the mobile computing device may confirm that total radiation power (TRP) for the mobile computing device at an initial conducted power level exceeds the minimum TRP threshold required by the network carrier to receive acceptable quality of service (QoS). Based on the excess TRP for the particular user environment, the mobile computing device may determine a reduced conducted power level to be input to an antenna system. Accordingly, significant power savings may be achieved. To save additional power, the mobile computing device may automatically adjust and/or improve antenna impedance matching based on user environment allowing a further reduction in conducted power.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08577426&OS=08577426&RS=08577426
owner: Palm, Inc.
number: 08577426
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120518
---
A mobile computing device typically operates using one or more transceivers and one or more antennas to provide voice and data communications functionality. Antenna impedance mismatch may result in dropped calls and increased power consumption. Antenna impedance mismatch worsens when the mobile computing device is in talk position because the head of a user is a lossy dielectric material and typically absorbs 1 6 dB energy radiating from the mobile computing device. As a result users may have more dropped calls and consume more power when using a mobile computing device in talk position than in a hands free environment.

Battery life is reduced when more power is drained from the battery. As the form factors for mobile computing devices continue to decrease less space is available for a larger battery to extend talk time. Accordingly there exists the need for improved systems and techniques for reducing power consumption in a mobile computing device.

Various embodiments are directed to systems and techniques for reducing power consumption in a mobile computing device. In one or more embodiments a mobile computing device may be arranged to determine a user environment based on detected antenna impedance or detected current. After the user environment is determined the mobile computing device may confirm that total radiation power TRP for the mobile computing device at an initial conducted power level exceeds the minimum TRP threshold required by the network carrier to receive acceptable quality of service QoS . Based on the excess TRP for the particular user environment the mobile computing device may determine a reduced conducted power level to be input to an antenna system. Accordingly significant power savings may be achieved. To save additional power the mobile computing device may automatically adjust and or improve antenna impedance matching based on user environment allowing a further reduction in conducted power. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

Mobile computing device may comprise a housing . Housing may include one or more materials such as plastic metal ceramic glass carbon fiber various polymers and so forth suitable for enclosing and protecting the internal components of mobile computing device . Housing may be used to encapsulate various internal components for mobile computing device such as a removable and rechargeable battery processors memory transceivers printed circuit boards antennas and so forth. In various embodiments housing may have a shape size and or form factor capable of being held with an average human hand such as a handheld computer cellular telephone PDA combination PDA cellular telephone smart phone and so forth.

Mobile computing device may comprise various input output I O devices such as an alphanumeric keyboard alphanumeric keypad numeric keys keys buttons switches rocker switches multi directional rocker switches a microphone an audio headset a camera a touch sensitive display screen a stylus and so forth. As shown in for example mobile computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keyboard having a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. Mobile computing device may comprise various buttons such as for example a volume button a customizable button a left action button a right action button a phone send button a power end button a start button an OK button and a navigation button . Mobile computing device may comprise an audio port to connect an audio headset a microphone a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode and an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

Mobile computing device may comprise a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations mobile computing device may be arranged to transfer and or synchronize information with the local computer system.

Mobile computing device may comprise a display . Display may comprise any suitable display unit for displaying information appropriate for mobile computing device . In addition display may be implemented as an additional I O device such as a touch screen touch panel touch screen panel and so forth. In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 16 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. In some cases the touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

Mobile computing device may comprise an antenna system including one or more antennas. The antennas may be internal antennas external antennas or a combination of both. In one embodiment for example the antenna system may include an external antenna implemented as a stub antenna a whip antenna an extendable antenna and so forth. The antenna system may also include one or more internal antennas such as a planar inverted F antenna a planar inverted L antenna an inverted F antenna with a helical structure an inverted L antenna with a helical structure a monopole antenna a meandered monopole antenna a dipole antenna a balanced antenna a printed helical antenna a chip antenna a ceramic antenna and so forth. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In various embodiments mobile computing device may be arranged to perform power saving techniques. In one or more embodiments the mobile computing device may be arranged to determine a user environment based on detected antenna impedance or detected current confirm that TRP at an initial conducted power level exceeds a minimum TRP threshold determine a reduced conducted power level to be input to the antenna system based on the excess TRP for the particular user environment. To save additional power the mobile computing device may improve antenna impedance matching based on user environment allowing a further reduction in conducted power. Systems and techniques for reducing power in mobile computing device may be described in more detail with reference to .

Mobile computing device also may comprise a power management sub system . Power management sub system may manage power for mobile computing device including radio sub system processing sub system and other elements of mobile computing device . For example power management sub system may include one or more batteries to provide direct current DC power and one or more alternating current AC interfaces to draw power from an AC power source such as a standard AC main power supply.

Radio sub system may provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular telephone systems. Examples of cellular telephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM systems North American Digital Cellular NADC systems Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems Extended TDMA E TDMA systems Narrowband Advanced Mobile Phone Service NAMPS systems third generation 3G systems such as Wide band CDMA WCDMA CDMA 2000 Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS systems and others.

Radio sub system may be arranged to provide mobile packet data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular telephone systems. Examples of cellular telephone systems offering mobile packet data communications services may include GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems CDMA 1xRTT systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Evolution Data Only Evolution Data Optimized EV DO systems Evolution For Data and Voice EV DV systems High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA systems High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA systems and others.

Radio sub system may be arranged to provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of wireless network systems. Examples of wireless network systems may include a wireless local area network WLAN system wireless metropolitan area network WMAN system wireless wide area network WWAN system and so forth. Examples of suitable wireless network systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and others.

Radio sub system may be arranged to perform data communications in accordance with different types of shorter range wireless systems such as a wireless personal area network PAN system. One example of a suitable wireless PAN system offering data communication services may include a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v1.0 v1.1 v1.2 v2.0 v2.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles and so forth. Other examples may include systems using infrared techniques or near field communication techniques and protocols such as electro magnetic induction EMI techniques. An example of EMI techniques may include passive or active radio frequency identification RFID protocols and devices.

Processing sub system may be responsible for executing various software programs including system programs such as operating system OS and application programs . System programs generally may assist in the running of mobile computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. The OS may be implemented for example as one or more of a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE OS Microsoft Pocket PC OS Microsoft Mobile OS Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS or other suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments. Mobile computing device may comprise other system programs such as device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth.

Application programs generally may allow a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks. In various implementations application programs may provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs to communicate information between mobile computing device and a user. In some embodiments application programs may comprise upper layer programs running on top of the OS that operate in conjunction with the functions and protocols of lower layers including for example a transport layer such as a Transmission Control Protocol TCP layer a network layer such as an Internet Protocol IP layer and a link layer such as a Point to Point PPP layer used to translate and format data for communication.

Examples of application programs may include without limitation messaging applications web browsing applications personal information management PIM applications e.g. contacts calendar scheduling tasks word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management gaming applications and so forth. It is also to be appreciated that mobile computing device may implement other types of applications in accordance with the described embodiments.

Messaging applications may be arranged to communicate various types of messages in a variety of formats. Each messaging application may be representative of a particular kind of transport enabling handling of messages of particular types and formats for the particular application. The messaging applications may comprise for example a telephone application such as a cellular telephone application a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP application a Push to Talk PTT application and so forth. The messaging applications may further comprise a voicemail application a facsimile application a video teleconferencing application an IM application an e mail application a Short Message Service SMS application and a Multimedia Messaging MMS application. It is to be understood that the embodiments are not limited in this regard and that the messaging applications may include any other type of messaging or communications application in accordance with the described embodiments.

Radio sub system and processing sub system may comprise one or more processors and one or more types of memory for performing operations in accordance with the described embodiments. Examples of a processor may include without limitation a central processing unit CPU general purpose processor dedicated processor chip multiprocessor CMP communications processor radio processor baseband processor network processor media processor digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor input output I O processor embedded processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other suitable processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

Memory may comprise various types of computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of computer readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other suitable type of computer readable media in accordance with the described embodiments. It can be appreciated that memory may be separate from a processor or may be included on the same integrated circuit as a processor. In some cases some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive memory card external to radio sub system and or processing sub system and accessible via a memory bus.

In various embodiments mobile computing device may comprise a dual processor architecture including a radio processor implemented by radio sub system and a host processor implemented by processing sub system . In such embodiments the radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. The host processor may be implemented as a host CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a as a general purpose processor. Although some embodiments may be described as comprising a dual processor architecture for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that mobile computing device may comprise any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown in radio sub system may comprise a radio processor . In various embodiments radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. Radio processor may be arranged to perform analog and or digital baseband operations such as digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth. Radio processor may comprise both analog and digital baseband sections. The analog baseband section may include I Q filters analog to digital converters digital to analog converters audio circuits and other circuits. The digital baseband section may include one or more encoders decoders equalizers demodulators Gaussian Minimum Shift Keying GSMK modulators GPRS ciphers transceiver controls automatic frequency control AFC automatic gain control AGC power amplifier PA ramp control and other circuits.

Radio sub system may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card arranged to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user. In various embodiments SIM may be implemented as an UMTS universal SIM USIM card or a CDMA removable user identity module RUIM card. In some implementations SIM may comprise a SIM application toolkit STK comprising a set of programmed commands for enabling the SIM to perform various functions and or to independently control aspects of mobile computing device .

Radio sub system may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . Transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. In various embodiments transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to support voice communication for a cellular telephone system such as a GSM UMTS and or CDMA system.

Transceiver module also may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to perform data communications in accordance with one or more wireless communications protocols such as WWAN protocols e.g. GSM GPRS protocols CDMA 1xRTT protocols EDGE protocols EV DO protocols EV DV protocols HSDPA protocols etc. WLAN protocols e.g. IEEE 802.11a b g n IEEE 802.16 IEEE 802.20 etc. PAN protocols Infrared protocols Bluetooth protocols EMI protocols including passive or active RFID protocols and so forth. In some embodiments transceiver module may comprise a Global Positioning System GPS transceiver to support position determination and or location based services.

Transceiver module may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. In various embodiments transceiver module may include multiple transceivers and associated hardware and or software components implemented in a single integrated package or module such as on the same die package or PCB. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor .

Transceiver module may be coupled to an antenna system through a power amplifier PA . PA may be arranged to work in all frequency bands and or modulation modes supported by transceiver module . PA may be used to provide conducted power Pto antenna system and to amplify signals to be transmitted over wireless shared media.

Antenna system may be arranged to transmit and receive electrical signals and may be implemented as one or more internal antennas external antennas or a combination of both. Although illustrates a single antenna for purposes of clarity it may be appreciated that antenna system may comprise multiple antennas in the form an antenna array. Multiple antennas may be desirable when implementing spatial diversity techniques e.g. beamforming and or high throughput Multiple Input Multiple Output MIMO systems e.g. 802.11n and 802.16e systems .

Antenna system may transmit and or receive electrical signals via wireless shared media such as one or more bands or sub bands of RF spectrum. During transmission antenna system may accept energy from a transmission line and radiate energy into space via a wireless shared media. During reception antenna system may gather energy from an incident wave received over the wireless shared media and provide energy to a corresponding transmission line. In various embodiments antenna system may operate in accordance with a desired Voltage Standing Wave Ratio VSWR value related to the impedance match of an antenna feed point and a conducting transmission line. To radiate RF energy with minimum loss and or to pass received RF energy to a receiver with minimum loss antenna impedance may need to be matched to the impedance of the conducting transmission line.

Antenna system may be tuned for operating at one or more frequency bands. In some embodiments mobile computing device may be implemented as a multi band wireless device supporting operation in multiple frequency bands. In addition antenna system may be used to implement various spatial diversity techniques to improve communication of wireless signals across one or more frequency bands of wireless shared media such as EV DO diversity at both the cellular band and Personal Communications Service PCS band.

In various embodiments the antenna system may allow mobile computing device to operate in one or more frequency bands for GSM communication such as the 850 MHz frequency band GSM 850 the 900 MHz frequency band GSM 900 the 1800 MHz frequency band GSM 1800 and or the 1900 MHz frequency band GSM 1900 as defined by the European Telecommunications Standards Institute ETSI . In the United States GSM 850 cellular and GSM 1900 PCS typically are used for GSM service. In many international countries GSM 900 and GSM 1800 DCS are used for GSM service. Extended GSM E GSM and Railways GSM GSM R are variants included in the GSM 900 specification that provide extended coverage and additional channels.

Although some embodiments may be described in the context of GSM communication for purposes of illustration it can be appreciated that the power saving systems and techniques described herein may be employed for other types of cellular telephone systems such as CDMA systems UMTS systems NADC systems TDMA systems E TDMA systems NAMPS systems and so forth.

As shown the antenna system may radiate an amount of power referred to as total radiation power TRP . In general the TRP of the mobile computing device is the sum of all power radiated by the antenna system regardless of direction or polarization. In order to maintain desired communication quality most carriers establish minimum over the air threshold requirements for TRP. For example some GSM network carriers require a 22 dBm minimum TRP threshold at cellular band and a 24.5 dBm minimum TRP threshold at PCS band. In general if the TRP of the mobile computing device meets or exceeds the minimum TRP threshold required by the network the mobile computing device will receive good quality of service QoS . If the TRP of the mobile computing device is below the minimum TRP threshold required by the network more power must be input into the antenna system from the battery to obtain the same QoS.

In one or more embodiments the mobile computing device may be implemented as a GSM handheld device designed to operate in the cellular band for a network carrier requiring a 22 dBm minimum TRP threshold. The TRP of the mobile computing device is a function of the conducted power Pinput into antenna system as well as impedance mismatch of the antenna system and radiation efficiency of antenna system . In some cases the mobile computing device may be arranged to supply 32 dBm of conducted power Pto antenna system resulting in 23 dBm TRP when the mobile computing device is in the talk position e.g. against the head of the user and 24 dBm TRP in free space e.g. hands free environment . It can be appreciated that when the mobile computing device is held in the talk position energy radiating from the mobile computing device is absorbed by the head of the user. The human head is a lossy dielectric material and typically may absorb 1 6 dB energy radiating from a portable device.

When providing 23 dBm TRP in talk position and 24 dBm TRP in free space the mobile computing device may exceed the 22 dBm minimum TRP threshold required by the network carrier and receive good QoS in all user environments. Traditionally the conducted power Pof a GSM device remains the same in all user environments whether in talk position or in free space. In such cases however excess TRP above the minimum TRP threshold established by the network carrier is provided at the expense of battery life.

In one or more embodiments the mobile computing device may achieve power savings by setting different power levels based on user environment. For example the mobile computing device may be arranged to determine a user environment by detecting antenna impedance which varies according to the proximity of the mobile computing device to the user. The mobile computing device may adjust or select a particular power level depending on the user environment to save power while maintaining acceptable QoS.

In various embodiments the radio sub system may comprise impedance sense circuitry designed to detect the antenna impedance of the antenna system . Impedance sense circuitry may be arranged to continuously periodically and or responsively detect antenna impedance. Impedance sense circuitry may be implemented within the mobile computing device by impedance bridge circuitry impedance meter circuitry antenna analyzer circuitry radiometer circuitry circuitry elements resistors inductors capacitors transformers coaxial or microstrip and or other suitable circuitry in accordance with the described embodiments.

Antenna impedance detected by the impedance sense circuit may vary based on user environment. For example antenna impedance detected by the impedance sense circuit will be higher in free space when the head of the user is relatively far away from the mobile computing device than when the mobile computing device is positioned against head of the user. The antenna impedance detected by the impedance sense circuit changes and becomes lower as the handheld is moved closer to the head of the user.

As shown radio sub system may comprise or implement a power control module PCM . In various embodiments PCM may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components and or combination thereof. For example PCM may be implemented by power control logic e.g. instructions data and or code such as software to be executed by a logic device e.g. radio processor . The power control logic may be stored internally or externally to a logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media such as memory . Although the memory may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as radio processor . It also can be appreciated that power control logic may be stored by other types of computer readable media and executed by other types of logic devices implemented by mobile computing device .

In operation PCM may implement power saving techniques for the mobile computing device . In various embodiments PCM may be arranged to determine a user environment or the proximity of the mobile computing device to the user based on antenna impedance detected by the impedance sense circuitry . For example PCM may calculate or derive the distance between the mobile computing device and the head of the user according to the detected antenna impedance.

After the user environment is determined PCM may confirm that TRP for the mobile computing device at an initial conducted power level exceeds the minimum TRP threshold required by the network carrier to receive acceptable QoS for the particular user environment. For example at a conducted power Plevel of 32 dBm a GSM handheld device may be designed to provide 23 dBm TRP in talk position and 24 dBm TRP in free space both of which exceed the 22 dBm minimum TRP threshold required by a GSM network carrier at cellular band.

Based on the excess TRP for the particular user environment e.g. 1 dBM in talk position 2 dBM in free space PCM may determine a reduced conducted power level e.g. 31 dBM in talk position 30 dBM in free space to be input to antenna system . In various embodiments the reduced power level may result in the mobile computing device providing a reduced TRP that at least meets a specific TRP threshold e.g. 22 dBM minimum TRP threshold to achieve an acceptable or desired QoS. It can be appreciated that in some embodiments the specific TRP threshold may be higher than the minimum TRP threshold of network carrier.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to control or limit the amount of power drained from or supplied by the battery to input the reduced conducted power level to antenna system and achieve the specific TRP threshold. In various embodiments the PCM may instruct radio processor to control or limit power drained from or supplied by the battery in the power management system .

When implemented as a GSM handheld device designed to operate in the cellular band for a network carrier requiring a 22 dBm minimum TRP threshold the mobile computing device may reduce conducted power from 32 dBM to 31 dBM in talk position to achieve 21 power savings while providing 22 dBm TRP and still maintaining acceptable QoS. In free space the mobile computing device may reduce conducted power from 32 dBM to 30 dBM to achieve 34 power savings while providing 22 dBm TRP and maintaining acceptable QoS.

Although some embodiments may be described in the context of a GSM handheld device for purposes of illustration it can be appreciated that the power saving systems and techniques described herein may be employed for handheld CDMA devices handheld UMTS devices or any other type of device in accordance with the described embodiments. In addition while some embodiments may be described with respect to distance between a handheld device and the head of the user it can be appreciated that the described power saving systems and techniques may be employed for a hand touch device such as a PDA or other mobile computing device where close proximity of the hand of a user may result in radiated energy absorption.

In this embodiment detected antenna impedance is 98 ohms in free space at point A when the head of the user is relatively far away from the handheld device e.g. d 20 mm . As shown by the graph antenna impedance changes and becomes lower as the handheld device is moved closer to the head of the user. When the handheld is positioned against head e.g. d 0 at point B detected antenna impedance is 66 ohms.

At point A the detected antenna impedance is 98 ohms indicating that the handheld is in free space. In free space the handheld may provide 24 dBm TRP at 32 dBm conducted power which may exceed the 22 dBm minimum TRP threshold required by a GSM network carrier at cellular band by 2 dB. In this case the handheld device may reduce conducted power to 30 dBm based on the excess TRP for the particular user environment saving 34 power.

At point B the detected antenna impedance is 66 ohms indicating that the handheld is in talk position. In talk position the handheld may provide 23 dBm TRP at 32 dBm conducted power which may exceed the 22 dBm minimum TRP threshold required by a GSM network carrier at cellular band by 1 dB. In this case the handheld device may reduce conducted power to 31 dBm based on the excess TRP for the particular user environment saving 21 power.

For a particular user environment or distance at any point between point A and point B a linear algorithm or other suitable methodology may be employed to calculate the amount of conducted power to input into an antenna. In various implementations detected impedance values between point A and point B may be divided into several sections and associated with different reduced power levels. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In some implementations power saving techniques may be provided on a configurable selectable and or optional basis. For example if battery life is above a certain level e.g. 50 power a constant conducted power level e.g. initial 32 dBm conducted power level or 31 dBm reduced conducted power level in talk position may be supplied to an antenna regardless of the user environment or proximity of the handheld device to the user. If battery life falls below a certain level conducted power may be gradually or severely reduced to save more power.

Power savings may be achieved by setting different power levels based on user environment. As described above antenna impedance varies according to the proximity of the mobile computing device to the user. At the same time antenna impedance variation may lead to mismatching between antenna system and power amplifier . Such mismatching will cause a change in the current drained from the battery of power management sub system .

In this embodiment the mobile computing device may be arranged to determine a user environment by detecting current which varies according to the proximity of the mobile computing device to the user. The mobile computing device may adjust or select a particular power level depending on the user environment to save power while maintaining acceptable QoS. In various implementations the mobile computing device may be arranged to determine and compensate for the effect of antenna impedance mismatch.

As shown the radio sub system may comprise current sense circuitry designed to detect the current drained from the battery of power management sub system . Current sense circuitry may be arranged to continuously periodically and or responsively detect current consumption. Current detected by the current sense circuit may vary based on user environment. For example as the handheld is moved closer to the head of the user there is greater impedance mismatch e.g. higher VSWR and current detected by the current sense circuit will be higher than when the handheld is in free space. Current sense circuitry may be implemented within the mobile computing device by a resistor e.g. 0.2 resistor and an ADC arranged to measure voltage drop across the resistor current meter circuitry circuitry elements resistors inductors capacitors and or other suitable circuitry in accordance with the described embodiments.

Radio sub system may comprise or implement PCM in memory . In operation PCM may implement power saving techniques for the mobile computing device . In various embodiments PCM may be arranged to determine a user environment or the proximity of the mobile computing device to the user based on current detected by the current sense circuitry . For example PCM may calculate or derive the distance between the mobile computing device and the head of the user according to the detected current.

After the user environment is determined PCM may confirm that TRP for the mobile computing device at an initial conducted power level exceeds the minimum TRP threshold required by the network carrier to receive acceptable QoS for the particular user environment. Based on the excess TRP for the particular user environment e.g. 1 dBM in talk position 2 dBM in free space PCM may determine a reduced conducted power level e.g. 31 dBM in talk position 30 dBM in free space to be input to antenna system . The reduced power level may result in mobile computing device providing a reduced TRP that at least meets a specific TRP threshold e.g. 22 dBM minimum TRP threshold to achieve an acceptable or desired QoS.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to control or limit the amount of power drained from or supplied by the battery to input the reduced conducted power level to antenna system and achieve the specific TRP threshold. In various embodiments PCM may instruct radio processor to control or limit power drained from or supplied by the battery in the power management system .

When implemented as a GSM handheld device designed to operate in the cellular band for a network carrier requiring a 22 dBm minimum TRP threshold the mobile computing device may reduce conducted power from 32 dBM to 31 dBM in talk position to achieve power savings while providing 22 dBm TRP and still maintaining acceptable QoS. In free space the mobile computing device may reduce conducted power from 32 dBM to 30 dBM to achieve power savings while providing 22 dBm TRP and maintaining acceptable QoS.

It can be appreciated that the power saving systems and techniques described herein may be employed for handheld GSM devices handheld CDMA devices handheld UMTS devices or any other type of device in accordance with the described embodiments. In addition the described power saving systems and techniques may be employed for a hand touch device such as a PDA or other mobile computing device where close proximity of the hand of a user may result in radiated energy absorption.

Power savings may be achieved by setting different power levels based on user environment. As described above the proximity of the mobile computing device to the user may cause a change in the current drained from the battery of power management sub system . The mobile computing device may determine a user environment by detecting current which varies according to the proximity of the mobile computing device to the user. The mobile computing device may adjust or select a particular power level depending on the user environment to save power while maintaining acceptable QoS. In various implementations the mobile computing device may be arranged to determine and compensate for the effect of antenna impedance mismatch.

In this embodiment power management sub system may comprise current sense circuitry designed to detect the current drained from the battery. Current sense circuitry may be arranged to continuously periodically and or responsively detect current consumption. Current detected by the current sense circuit may vary based on user environment. For example as the handheld is moved closer to the head of the user current detected by the current sense circuit will be higher than when the handheld is in free space.

Current sense circuitry may be implemented within the power management sub system by one or more ICs chips chipsets and or circuitry. In some embodiments for example the current sense circuitry may comprise a gas gauge implemented by or interfaced with the battery pack within power management sub system . The gas gauge may comprise for example an IC chip or chipset arranged to interface with the battery pack and to measure current flow into and out of the battery. In such embodiments the gas gauge may be interrogated at any time to determine current consumption capacity remaining power of the battery and or other parameters. In other embodiments the current sense circuitry may comprise or form part of a power management IC chip or chipset arranged to interface with the battery and to control power supply battery charging and other power related functions for mobile computing device .

Radio sub system may comprise or implement PCM in memory . In operation PCM may implement power saving techniques for the mobile computing device . In various embodiments PCM may instruct radio processor to interrogate current sense circuitry in power management system to detect current and or determine current consumption. In some implementations the current detected by current sense circuitry may correspond to the current consumption of radio sub system . In other implementations the current detected by current sense circuitry may correspond to the total current consumption of mobile computing device . In such cases the current consumption for radio sub system may be determined by subtracting known or expected current consumption values for other components from the total current being consumed by mobile computing device .

In various embodiments PCM may be arranged to determine a user environment or the proximity of the mobile computing device to the user based on current detected by the current sense circuitry . For example the PCM may calculate or derive the distance between the mobile computing device and the head of the user according to the detected current.

After the user environment is determined the PCM may confirm that TRP for the mobile computing device at an initial conducted power level exceeds the minimum TRP threshold required by the network carrier to receive acceptable QoS for the particular user environment. Based on the excess TRP for the particular user environment e.g. 1 dBM in talk position 2 dBM in free space the PCM may determine a reduced conducted power level e.g. 31 dBM in talk position 30 dBM in free space to be input to antenna system . The reduced power level may result in mobile computing device providing a reduced TRP that at least meets a specific TRP threshold e.g. 22 dBM minimum TRP threshold to achieve an acceptable or desired QoS.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to control or limit the amount of power drained from or supplied by the battery to input the reduced conducted power level to antenna system and achieve the specific TRP threshold. In various embodiments the PCM may instruct radio processor to control or limit power drained from or supplied by the battery in the power management system .

When implemented as a GSM handheld device designed to operate in the cellular band for a network carrier requiring a 22 dBm minimum TRP threshold the mobile computing device may reduce conducted power from 32 dBM to 31 dBM in talk position to achieve power savings while providing 22 dBm TRP and still maintaining acceptable QoS. In free space the mobile computing device may reduce conducted power from 32 dBM to 30 dBM to achieve power savings while providing 22 dBm TRP and maintaining acceptable QoS.

It can be appreciated that the power saving systems and techniques described herein may be employed for handheld GSM devices handheld CDMA devices handheld UMTS devices or any other type of device in accordance with the described embodiments. In addition the described power saving systems and techniques may be employed for a hand touch device such as a PDA or other mobile computing device where close proximity of the hand of a user may result in radiated energy absorption.

Power savings may be achieved by setting different power levels based on user environment. For example the mobile computing device may be arranged to determine a user environments by detecting antenna impedance which varies according to the proximity of the mobile computing device to the user. The mobile computing device may adjust or select a particular power level depending on the user environment to save power while maintaining acceptable QoS.

As described above antenna impedance varies according to the proximity of the mobile computing device to the user. At the same time antenna impedance variation may lead to mismatching between antenna system and power amplifier . In general antenna impedance matches well with PA in free space but not in talk position. Talk position is the worst case of all user environments where the head of the user absorbs the maximum power from the mobile computing device . In contrast the head of the user absorbs the minimum power from the mobile computing device in free space.

Impedance sense circuitry may be arranged to continuously periodically and or responsively detect antenna impedance and PCM may be arranged to determine a user environment or the proximity of the mobile computing device to the user based on antenna impedance detected by the impedance sense circuitry .

In this embodiment the radio sub system may comprise a matching switch system within the mobile computing device designed automatically adjust antenna matching in different user environment in order to maintain the minimum conducted power and extend battery life. Matching switch system may be implemented by various circuitry elements resistors inductors and capacitors diodes transformers and or other suitable circuitry in accordance with the described embodiments. Components or groups of components within the matching switch system may be continuously periodically and or responsively adjusted on an individual or group basis to compensate for antenna impedance mismatch.

As shown matching switch system may comprise a switch controller SC arranged to mechanically or otherwise switch among two or more matching circuitries including a first matching circuitry MC and a second matching circuitry MC . In various embodiments MC may be used for a first user environment e.g. free space and MC may be used for a second user environment e.g. talk position . In such embodiments MC may comprise matching circuitry designed to compensate for antenna impedance mismatch. It can be appreciated that while MC and MC are shown for purposes of illustration matching switch system may include addition matching circuitries associated with different user environments in accordance with the described embodiments.

After the user environment is determined the SC may be arranged to automatically adjust and or improve antenna impedance matching. For example if the detected antenna impedance is 98 ohms indicating that the handheld is in free space there is relatively good impedance matching between antenna system and PA . SC may switch or connect to MC. In free space the handheld may provide 24 dBm TRP at 32 dBm conducted power which may exceed the 22 dBm minimum TRP threshold required by a GSM network carrier at cellular band by 2 dB. In this case the handheld device may reduce conducted power to 30 dBm based on the excess TRP for the particular user environment to achieve power savings.

If the antenna impedance detected by the impedance sense circuitry is 66 ohms indicating that the handheld is in talk position there is mismatching between antenna system and PA . SC may switch or connect to MC to provide better antenna impedance matching. In talk position the handheld may exceed the minimum TRP threshold by 1 dB and matching switch system may provide better antenna impedance matching. In this case the handheld device may reduce conducted power to 30 dBm based on the excess TRP and improved antenna impedance matching for the particular user environment to achieve power savings.

When implemented as a GSM handheld device designed to operate in the cellular band for a network carrier mobile computing device may reduce conducted power from 32 dBM to 30 dBM in talk position as well as in free space to achieve power savings while providing 22 dBm TRP and maintaining acceptable QoS.

It some embodiments user environment or the proximity of the mobile computing device to the user may be determined based on current detected by current sense circuitry . Accordingly in such embodiments the matching switch system may be used in conjunction with current sense circuitry to provide improved antenna impedance matching and power savings.

It can be appreciated that the power saving systems and techniques described herein may be employed for handheld GSM devices handheld CDMA devices handheld UMTS devices or any other type of device in accordance with the described embodiments. In addition the described power saving systems and techniques may be employed for a hand touch device such as a PDA or other mobile computing device where close proximity of the hand of a user may result in radiated energy absorption.

The logic flow may comprise determining a user environment block . In some embodiments the user environment may be determined based on detected antenna impedance which varies according to the proximity of a mobile computing device to a user. For example detected antenna impedance will be higher in free space when the head of the user is relatively far away from the mobile computing device than when the mobile computing device is positioned against head of the user. The detected antenna impedance changes and becomes lower as the mobile computing device is moved closer to the head of the user.

In some embodiments the user environment may be determined based on detected current which varies according to the proximity of the mobile computing device to a user. Antenna impedance variation may lead to mismatching causing a change in the current drained from a battery of the mobile computing device. For example as the mobile computing device is moved closer to the head of the user there is greater impedance mismatch and detected current will be higher than when the mobile computing device is in free space.

The logic flow may comprise improving impedance matching block . In various embodiments the mobile computing device may automatically adjust and or improve antenna impedance matching based on user environment allowing a further reduction in conducted power. For example if the mobile computing device is in free space there is relatively good impedance matching. If the mobile computing device is in talk position there is impedance mismatching. In talk position appropriate matching circuitry may be used to connect to antenna to provide better antenna impedance matching.

The logic flow may comprise confirming that TRP for the mobile computing device at an initial conducted power level exceeds a minimum TRP threshold block . In various embodiments the minimum TRP threshold may be established by a network carrier to receive acceptable QoS. At an initial conducted power level the mobile computing device may be designed to provide TRP which exceeds the TRP threshold required by the network carrier in both talk position and in free space 24 dBm.

The logic flow may comprise determining a reduced conducted power level based on the excess TRP for the particular user environment block and providing the reduced conducted power level to an antenna system block . In various embodiments the mobile computing device may adjust or select a particular power level depending on the user environment to save power while maintaining acceptable QoS. The reduced power level may result in the mobile computing device providing a reduced TRP that at least meets a specific TRP threshold e.g. minimum TRP threshold to achieve an acceptable or desired QoS. The mobile computing device may be arranged to control or limit the amount of power drained from or supplied by the battery to input the reduced conducted power level to the antenna system and achieve the specific TRP threshold.

Numerous specific details have been set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be understood however that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known operations components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments. It can be appreciated that the specific structural and functional details are representative and do not necessarily limit the scope of the embodiments.

Various embodiments may comprise one or more elements. An element may comprise any structure arranged to perform certain operations. Each element may be implemented as hardware software or any combination thereof as desired for a given set of design and or performance constraints. Although an embodiment may be described with a limited number of elements in a certain topology by way of example the embodiment may include more or less elements in alternate topologies as desired for a given implementation.

It is worthy to note that some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. With respect to software elements for example the term coupled may refer to interfaces message interfaces API exchanging messages and so forth.

Various embodiments may comprise one or more functional components or modules for performing various operations. It can be appreciated that such components or modules may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components and or combination thereof. The functional components and or modules may be implemented for example by logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. processor . Such logic may be stored internally or externally to a logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media.

It also is to be appreciated that the described embodiments illustrate exemplary implementations and that the functional components and or modules may be implemented in various other ways which are consistent with the described embodiments. Furthermore the operations performed by such components or modules may be combined and or separated for a given implementation and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of components or modules.

Some of the figures may include a flow diagram. Although such figures may include a particular logic flow it can be appreciated that the logic flow merely provides an exemplary implementation of the general functionality. Further the logic flow does not necessarily have to be executed in the order presented unless otherwise indicated. In addition the logic flow may be implemented by a hardware element a software element executed by a processor or any combination thereof.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities e.g. electronic within registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

It also is worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

While certain features of the embodiments have been illustrated as described above many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

