---

title: Data transmission apparatus, control method therefor, and image input/output apparatus
abstract: According to the present invention, a data transmission apparatus capable of transmitting data by using a plurality of transmission media, comprises an authority storage unit, adapted to store authority information representing use authority to use each transmission medium by each user; and a transmission control unit, adapted to, in transmitting data, restrict data transmission to a destination corresponding to a transmission medium for which a current user does not have the use authority.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08726401&OS=08726401&RS=08726401
owner: Canon Kabushiki Kaisha
number: 08726401
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20120412
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 535 310 filed on Sep. 26 2006 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates to a data transmission apparatus capable of holding e.g. a destination of transmission and transmitting image information or the like to the destination a control method therefor and an image input output apparatus. Particularly the present invention relates to a data transmission apparatus which controls display of a destination corresponding to a function available to the user and thereby manages the function available to the user a control method therefor and an image input output apparatus.

As the network speed increases documents and image data are provided more and more via a network. Some digital multifunction devices each having a scanner and printer can print an original on a sheet medium like a copying machine and can also transmit via a network document data read by a scanner or document data received from a personal computer. Transmission media transmission protocols provided by the digital multifunction device include various media such as email facsimile FAX a file transfer protocol FTP and a server message block SMB . Transmission by these methods requires designating a destination of transmission in a format corresponding to each medium. In order to manage a plurality of destinations destinations of transmission the digital multifunction device has a transmission address book destination list . The transmission address book generally saves transmission destination information such as an address in correspondence with the name of the transmission destination. The transmission address book is a list in which addresses each having items such as the name of a destination the transmission protocol type and detailed attribute data are registered for one or a plurality of destinations of transmission. The user can select an address from the displayed address book to easily designate the destination. Each address has an attribute item access code . The user can use only an address having an access code which matches an access code input by the user.

A plurality of users share an advanced digital multifunction device. The advanced digital multifunction device can discriminate a user by his password or the like and can set for example the upper print count for each user providing fine user management. User management is based on user management information registered by the administrator or the like.

A plurality of application programs also simply called an application are installed in the digital multifunction device. In order to facilitate management and centralize information a plurality of applications running on the digital multifunction device commonly use the address book and user management information. Japanese Patent Laid Open No. 2003 333241 discloses a multifunction device which allows a plurality of applications running on the multifunction device to share user information and can centralize and manage the user information.

There are demands to manage a transmission medium provided by a digital multifunction device in more detail for each user. More specifically it is desired to restrict a transmission medium available to each user. For example when using a digital multifunction device installed at a university the administrator wants an operation to restrict ordinary students in facsimile transmission requiring high communication cost and permit facsimile transmission to only limited students. In this case a conventional digital multifunction device provides only an operation to assign an access code to a facsimile number register them and notify a user permitted to perform facsimile transmission of the registered access code. In other words the administrator must manage permission inhibition of facsimile transmission by creating a user list or the like.

In this manner the digital multifunction device does not have a function to restrict a user specific transmission medium. Some multifunction devices can register in the address book a grouped destination for transmitting data of the same contents to a plurality of destinations. The grouped destination can contain the destinations of different media. For example for a given name a facsimile number and email address serving as destinations can be registered as one grouped destination. When a grouped destination contains a destination of a medium type to which the user is inhibited from transmitting data a message to this effect must be displayed to the user in an easy to understand form otherwise the user believes that he successfully transmitted data though transmission fails.

The present invention has been made in consideration of the above situation and has as its object to provide a data transmission apparatus capable of managing a transmission medium available to each user a control method therefor and an image input output apparatus. It is another object of the present invention to provide a data transmission apparatus which notifies a user who attempts to use a transmission medium for which the user does not have use authority that he does not have authority a control method therefor and an image input output apparatus.

The present invention is made to achieve the above objects. That is a data transmission apparatus capable of transmitting data by using a plurality of transmission media comprises an authority storage unit adapted to store authority information representing use authority to use each transmission medium by each user and a transmission control unit adapted to in transmitting data restrict data transmission to a destination corresponding to a transmission medium for which a current user does not have the use authority.

According to the present invention an available transmission medium can be managed for each user and the management can target each destination. A user who attempts to use a transmission medium for which the user does not have use authority is notified that he does not have authority and thereby notified that he cannot use the transmission medium. The user can transmit data to grouped destinations of multi address transmission using a given transmission medium without being aware that an unavailable destination is contained in the grouped destination or a function unavailable to the user is registered.

Further features of the present invention will become apparent from the following description of exemplary embodiments with reference to the attached drawings .

A reader unit image input apparatus optically reads an original image and converts it into image data. The reader unit comprises a scanner unit having a function of scanning an original and a document feed unit having a function of conveying an original sheet.

A printer unit image output apparatus conveys a print sheet forms image data as a visible image on the print sheet and delivers the print sheet outside the apparatus. The printer unit comprises a feed unit having a plurality of types of print sheet cassettes a marking unit having a function of transferring and fixing image data onto a print sheet and a delivery unit . The delivery unit has a function of sorting printed sheets stapling them and outputting them outside the apparatus.

A control unit electrically connects to the reader unit and printer unit and connects to a LAN . The control unit also connects to a public line via a FAX unit . The control unit provides a copy function of controlling the reader unit to read image data of an original and controlling the printer unit to output the image data on a print sheet. The control unit also provides a scanner function and printer function. The scanner function is to convert image data read by the reader unit into code data and transmit the code data to a host computer not shown via the LAN . The printer function is to convert code data received from the host computer via the LAN and output the image data to the printer unit .

An operation unit connects to the control unit . The operation unit is formed from a liquid crystal touch panel and provides a user I F to operate the image input output system. The operation unit displays UI windows in to be described later.

A main controller mainly comprises a CPU bus controller and various I F controller circuits. The CPU and bus controller control the whole operation of the control unit . The CPU runs on the basis of a program loaded from a ROM via a ROM interface to be abbreviated as an I F . This program also describes an operation to interpret code data of a page description language to be abbreviated as a PDL received from a host computer and expand the data into raster image data. Software processes this program. The bus controller controls transfer of data input output from to each I F and performs arbitration upon bus contention and control of DMA data transfer.

A DRAM connects to the main controller via a DRAM I F and is used as a work area for operating the CPU and a storage area for accumulating image data. An Ethernet controller is a network controller for connecting to the LAN and allows the main controller to access a network. Data is transmitted received via the LAN by email using SMTP Simple Mail Transfer Protocol Internet facsimile i FAX FTP File Transfer Protocol and SMB Server Message Block . A Codec compresses raster image data accumulated in the DRAM by a format such as MH MR MMR JBIG JPEG and decompresses compressed accumulated code data into raster image data. An SRAM serves as a temporary work area for the Codec . The Codec connects to the main controller via an I F and the bus controller controls data transfer between the Codec and the DRAM to DMA transfer the data. A graphic processor performs processes such as image rotation scaling and color space conversion.

An external communicate I F connects to the main controller via an I F and connects to an external network via a connector . The connected external network is a public telephone network such as ISDN. The external network mediates facsimile transmission reception.

A general high speed bus connects an I O control unit and an expansion connector for connecting an expansion board. The general high speed bus is generally a PCI bus. The I O control unit comprises asynchronous serial communication controllers of two channels that transmit receive control commands to from the CPUs of the reader unit and printer unit . The I O control unit connects to external I F circuit and via an I O bus .

A panel I F connects to an LCD controller and comprises an I F for display on the liquid crystal screen of the operation unit and a key input I F for inputs from hard keys and touch panel keys. The operation unit comprises a liquid crystal display a touch panel input device adhered onto the liquid crystal display and a plurality of hard keys. The CPU receives via the panel I F a signal input from the touch panel or hard keys. The liquid crystal display unit displays image data sent from a panel I F . The liquid crystal display unit displays functions image data and the like in the operation of the image processing apparatus.

A real time clock module updates and saves a date and time managed in the apparatus and is backed up by a backup battery . An E IDE connector connects an external storage device. In the embodiment the I F connects a hard disk drive to store image data in a hard disk and read out image data from the hard disk . The hard disk also saves management information such as an address book address management table and user management table.

Connectors and connect to the reader unit and printer unit respectively and comprise asynchronous serial I Fs and and video I Fs and . The scanner I F connects to the reader unit via the connector and to the main controller via a scanner bus . The scanner I F has a function of performing a predetermined process for an image received from the reader unit . The scanner I F also has a function of outputting to the scanner bus control signal generated on the basis of a video control signal sent from the reader unit . The bus controller controls data transfer from the scanner bus to the DRAM .

The printer I F connects to the printer unit via the connector and to the main controller via a printer bus . The printer I F has a function of performing a predetermined process for image data output from the main controller and outputting the processed data to the printer unit . The printer I F has also a function of outputting to the printer bus a control signal generated on the basis of a video control signal sent from the printer unit .

The bus controller controls transfer of raster image data expanded in the DRAM to the printer unit and DMA transfers the raster image data to the printer unit via the printer bus and video I F .

With the above arrangement the digital copying apparatus can transmit image data to desired destinations using various media such as email facsimile Internet facsimile and file transfer.

A real time operating system OS provides software running on the OS with various resource management services and frameworks optimized to control an embedded system. Various resource management services provided by the real time OS include multi task management thread management inter task communication memory management interrupt management various device drivers and protocol stacks. Multi task management thread management is a function of substantially parallel operating a plurality of processes by managing a plurality of execution contexts of processes by the CPU. Inter task communication is a function of implementing synchronization and data exchange between tasks. The protocol stacks are software modules which contain processes of various protocols for a local interface network and communication.

A file system is a mechanism to store data created in a storage device such as a hard disk or memory. The file system is used to spool jobs treated by the controller of the image processing apparatus or save various data. A job control apparatus control module controls hardware of the image processing apparatus and controls jobs using basic functions e.g. print scan communication and image conversion provided mainly by hardware of the image processing apparatus. A management module manages the operation of the controller so as to control an internal state associated with the operation of the controller of the image processing apparatus. A control API is an application programming interface which allows embedded applications as an upper layer of the control API to use services provided by software modules as a lower layer of the control API .

A network service mutually converts the control API and a network protocol allowing an external network node such as a client PC to utilize the basic functions of the apparatus. The network service has a network server function having various protocols e.g. LPR NetWare SMB PAP and IPP for network printing and makes it possible to input a print job from an external network node such as a client PC.

A presentation interface and embedded application UI form an embedded application. The embedded application uses the basic functions of the control API to implement host functions such as copying image scanning document transmission reception and document filing in addition to the basic functions of the image processing apparatus. A universal send corresponds to business logic of the embedded application. The presentation interface divides the embedded application into business logic and presentation logic. The embedded application UI corresponds to presentation logic of the embedded application and controls display and input of a graphical user interface GUI in order to allow the user to operate the embedded application. The embedded application UI provides a local user interface on the operation unit of the image processing apparatus and also provides a Web application implemented using a markup language e.g. HTML and a Web technique e.g. HTTP . The user can access the Web application from a Web browser running on a client PC or the like and remote control the image processing apparatus. The presentation layer of the embedded application installed as the Web application will be called a remote UI.

The universal send plays a primary role of an image transmission application and transmits image data accumulated in the image processing apparatus to a terminal not shown in accordance with contents designated by the user via the embedded application UI . The universal send can transmit one image by various transmission protocols transmission media . A FAX component can FAX transmit an image through a public line whereas an email component can transmit an image as an attached file of email. An FTP transmission component transmits an image as a file by the FTP protocol. An Internet FAX component transmits an image by the Internet FAX protocol. An SMB transmission component can transmit an image as a file or print data by the SMB protocol.

An address book management module can save read and maintain a destination of transmission. The address book management module provides the user with a function of easily operating and managing a destination of transmission used in the universal send . A user management module maintains and manages a user management table which holds the authority of a user who uses the digital multifunction device .

A destination table management means corresponds to a transmission address book and can register edit delete and browse a transmission address. A registered address book is saved as a file in the internal storage of the apparatus similar to image data. A user management table management means saves and maintains a user management table which holds the password of each user authority for each transmission medium and the like. An image data transmission means corresponds to universal send software of an application in the apparatus. The image data transmission means generates and acquires image data to be transmitted by using the image reading means and image data storage means . The image data transmission means uses the destination table management means to create a transmission destination list and uses the network transmission reception means to transmit created or acquired image data to a destination contained in the transmission destination list. A transmission media restriction means manages registered users and manages correspondence between the registered users and transmission media available to them. For example when the image data transmission means creates a transmission destination list or transmits image data the transmission media restriction means looks up the user management table to determine whether the user has use authority to use each transmission medium corresponding to a destination. If the user does not have the use authority the transmission media restriction means excludes the destination from the transmission destination list or does not transmit any data to the destination. At the same time the transmission media restriction means provides e.g. a display to notify the user of a message to this effect.

These operations are done through an operation unit means . The operation unit means comprises an information display LCD panel and a touch panel and keyboard through which the apparatus recognizes an instruction from the user. Examples of the transmission media are email FAX and transmission protocols such as SMB.

Note that the functional blocks in explain not the essence of the present invention but an apparatus or method which is built as the core of the present invention. Hence arranging the building elements shown in is a sufficient condition to implement the present invention but is not a necessary condition. For example the present invention is implemented without the image reading means .

Registration and editing of a transmission address in the address book will be explained. shows an address registration window. When the user presses the destination table button or new destination tab in an address registration window in is displayed. The user uses the destination table button to select a sub address book obtained by dividing the entire address book. When the user presses the destination table button the destination list exhibits destinations belonging to the selected sub address book. A new destination registration button is arranged at the bottom of the address registration window in . The user presses the new destination registration button to display a destination registration editing window in .

The user can select a sub address book with a destination table button at the upper right of the window. By selecting a desired sub address book with the destination table button the user can classify and register a destination email address in into the selected sub address book. In the user selects a sub address book first development department in .

An email address field is arranged at the center of the window. The user inputs an email address with the software keyboard. After the end of inputs the user presses the Next button to display an access number input window in . The access number is identical to an access code.

The above example is related to email and the grouped destination. Internet facsimile and FTP can be registered by the same procedures as those of email. The UI window changes from email to Internet facsimile or FTP and displays Internet facsimile or FTP . An input destination is saved by transmission medium. An input address is an Internet facsimile address or FTP address. An inputtable destination is a facsimile number which also applies to facsimile.

User registration in the digital multifunction device will be explained. shows a user registration window. According to the custom of a copying apparatus user management will be called department ID management and department means a user in this example. That is the function means user specific management. Instead of managing respective users users may be managed by a specific department. In this case users belonging to the department use a common ID. In any case available functions and the like are restricted by an ID input when using the multifunction device. The user can press a password registration button to register a user ID and password and can press a count management button to manage a count such as an upper print count. A switch designates permission inhibition of various jobs a description of which will be omitted.

In the user in this case the user is an administrator presses the password registration button to display a password registration window in . The administrator can confirm a list of users from the password registration window. A user field displays the ID and password of each user. At the same time the administrator can refer to a count value assigned to each user. The administrator presses a registration button at the bottom of the window to open a dialog for registering a user ID and password as shown in . The administrator inputs an ID value and password value through the numerical keys of the operation panel not shown .

While selecting the user field the administrator presses a function restriction button in to display a function restriction dialog in . In the function restriction dialog the administrator designates a function of the digital multifunction device that can be used by a selected user. In the example of the administrator can designate whether to permit ON or inhibit OFF email facsimile and SMB. In none of the functions can be used and the selected user cannot use these functions in transmitting an image.

When the user presses a user registration button on the operation panel the user registration procedures start and the control unit displays the UI in . The control unit executes the procedures in in response to an input from the operator after displaying the window in .

The control unit determines whether the pressed button is the password registration button step S . If the operator is to register a password the control unit displays the list window in step S . The process waits for an input from the operator and the control unit determines whether the operator presses the registration button S . If the operator presses the registration button the control unit displays the dialog in to allow the operator to input a user ID and password. If the operator presses the OK button the control unit adds the registered record to the user management table step S .

If the control unit determines in step S that the operator does not press the password registration button it determines whether he presses the function restriction button step S . If the operator does not press the function restriction button the control unit performs a process corresponding to the designated operation a description of which will be omitted. If the operator presses the function restriction button the control unit displays the dialog in and permits the operator to operate the restriction switch step S . After the end of input the control unit updates the user management table in accordance with the registered contents in step S.

By the above procedures the use authority to use each transmission medium can be set for each user in the user management table. The user does not have use authority for a restricted medium but has use authority for an unrestricted medium.

Subsequently a user notification method when the current user does not have authority to use a transmission destination in a transmission operation will be explained. Assume that five destinations of transmission are registered in the address book as shown in . The five destinations are the destinations of respective transmission media i.e. FAX email Internet FAX and FTP file transmission and a grouped destination of these destinations. Although not shown in the grouped destination contains one destination for each of FAX email Internet FAX and FTP transmission media. A user who attempts transmission does not have use authority for only the FAX transmission medium. That is the use permission flag is OFF.

The first notification method will be explained. According to the first method the destination table list does not exhibit the destination of a transmission medium for which the user does not have authority. In this case as shown in the destination table list does not exhibit the facsimile number contained in the address book and the user cannot see it. Thus the user cannot select a facsimile as a transmission medium for image transmission. In the destination table list does not display even the grouped destination because the grouped destination contains the facsimile number so the user cannot use the grouped destination too. The administrator sets this state when he wants to hide unnecessary items from the user having no authority. In this way the first notification method does not display the destination of a transmission medium for which the user does not have use authority.

The second notification method will be explained. According to the second method a destination for which the user does not have authority is so displayed as to inhibit selection of the destination. shows an example of this operation window. The FAX destination facsimile number and the grouped destination containing the FAX destination are hatched and grayed out. The user can recognize that these destinations are registered but cannot select them as transmission destinations. The administrator sets this state when the user can ask the administrator to temporarily use a restricted function. The function of providing a selection inhibited display is prepared in Windows OS or the like and can be used to achieve the second method. According to the second method similar to the first method the user cannot select a transmission medium for which he does not have authority. However unlike the first method the second method allows the user to recognize that there are use restricted transmission media.

The third method will be explained. According to the third embodiment a warning is displayed when the user selects the destination of a transmission medium for which the user does not have authority. When the user selects from the destination list of the destination table the destination of a transmission medium for which the user does not have authority a warning dialog is displayed as shown in . Unlike the first and second methods the user can know from the message the presence of a transmission medium restricted in use and how to cancel the restriction. The user can ask the administrator to temporarily use a use restricted transmission medium.

Although not shown the fourth method is also available. According to the fourth method the user selects an arbitrary destination and it is determined in executing transmission that transmission fails because of use restriction. The user is notified of the transmission failure by display on the status line and record in the log. This method can be adopted when a user who attempts transmission knows well that the grouped destination contains the destination of a transmission medium for which he does not have authority and the administrator does not want to display a warning. Which of these notification methods is to be adopted can be selected with a switch in the function setting window of the digital multifunction device. For example this switch is arranged in the user management window and a method identifier representing a method for use is registered in the record of each user in the user management table. For example a value 1 in the method identifier field in means the first method a value 2 the second method a value 3 the third method and a value 4 the fourth method. This setting makes it possible to notify or not to notify the user of restriction.

A user notification method and transmission operation when the current user does not have authority to use a destination of transmission will be explained with reference to a flowchart. is a flowchart associated with a process in the digital multifunction device when the user designates a destination from a transmission destination table. The control unit executes these procedures. On standby the digital multifunction device displays on the operation unit a window which prompts the user to input an ID. Before executing procedures in the user logs in to the digital multifunction device. The ID of the login user is saved as the ID of the current user in the RAM or the like.

When the user presses the destination table button while displaying the transmission window in the control unit reads out a saved address book from a dedicated area in the hard disk managed by the address book management module shown in S . In order to determine the display method the control unit reads out a record corresponding to the current user ID in the user management table from the internal memory. If the record is saved in the hard disk the control unit reads out the record from the hard disk. The control unit reads out the method identifier i.e. address book display method switch registered in the record of the current user S . Then the control unit tests the value of the method identifier .

If the value of the method identifier represents the first method as a result of the test the process branches to step S. That is if the control unit determines in step S that it is set not to display the destination of a restricted transmission medium it displays in the list only the destinations of media for which the current user has use authority among the readout destination data S . A medium for which the current user has use authority can be determined by referring to the record of the current user this record will be called the current user record registered in the user management table. More specifically the current user has use authority for a transmission medium corresponding to an ON field by referring to the permission flags to of respective media in the current user record. When the grouped destination registered in the address book contains the destination of a restricted transmission medium the control unit does not display the grouped destination too. For a normal record in the address book the control unit can determine a transmission medium corresponding to the selected destination on the basis of which field content is selected. When each destination is given an identifier representing the type of medium the control unit can also determine a transmission medium on the basis of the identifier. For a group address identification information representing a medium type is registered in correspondence with transmission destination information see and the control unit can specify a medium type on the basis of the medium type corresponding to a selected destination.

The control unit determines whether the second method is designated i.e. it is designated to hatch and display the destination of a restricted medium S . If the second method is designated the control unit hatches and grays out the destination of a restricted medium i.e. a medium for which the current user does not have use authority so as to inhibit selection of the destination even if the user selects it S . If the setting of the method identifier does not satisfy even one of the above conditions the control unit displays all addresses in the list S .

As a result the control unit displays the destination list shown in . When the user selects a desired one of selectable destinations from the destination list and presses a transmission button not shown the control unit attempts to transmit image data to the selected destination. The user designates image data to be transmitted from image data obtained by reading an original image set on the reader unit and image data saved in the hard disk . When the first or second method is selected the control unit presents destinations so as to allow the current user to select only destinations corresponding to transmission media for which the user has authority. In designating a destination of transmission the user can designate only a destination for which he has transmission authority.

A process until the user selects a destination from an address list in the displayed address book and transmits image data will be explained. is a flowchart for explaining this process. The control unit executes these procedures.

The control unit waits until the user selects all desired destinations from the list. Since the user can simultaneously designate a plurality of destinations for transmission the control unit repeats the process until the user selects all destinations S . If a selected destination is hatched and grayed out to inhibit operation this means that the user cannot use the destination so the user cannot designate this destination. In this case the control unit waits again for selection and the display is kept unchanged S .

The control unit determines whether the selected destination is restricted and cannot be used S . By referring to the current user record registered in the user management table the control unit can determine a medium for which the current user has use authority. More specifically the current user has use authority for a transmission medium corresponding to an ON field by referring to the permission flags to of respective media in the current user record.

If the current user does not have authority the control unit determines whether the notification method is the third method of displaying the warning window shown in and notifying the user that he cannot transmit image data S . If it is set not to display a warning NO in S the user may be notified whether he can transmit image data by the log after executing transmission. For this purpose the control unit adds the selected destination to the transmission destination list similar to a case of determining that the current user has authority S . The destination of transmission is saved in the memory at least until transmission is complete. If it is set to display a warning third method the control unit display the warning window shown in S . By describing the reason of the transmission failure troubleshooting or the like in the warning window the user can easily grasp the reason or cope with the trouble. Since the warning window is displayed before executing transmission the user can also execute an operation again.

The control unit repeats the above process for all destinations selected by the user. For example pressing the transmission button not shown triggers the control unit to transmit image data S .

After transmission the control unit determines whether transmission is successful S . If transmission is successful the control unit adds the success log to log information in the digital multifunction device S . If transmission fails the control unit displays an error message in the status area at the bottom of the operation panel and notifies the user in operation that transmission fails. At the same time the control unit adds the failure log to log information in the digital multifunction device S . Even if the user moves apart from the apparatus at the start of transmission he can know the transmission result later.

By the above procedures the destination list is presented to the user a warning is displayed or the user is notified of the transmission result in addition to a selected notification method. The administrator can set use authority to use a transmission medium by each user in the digital multifunction device which can be shared between a plurality of users. In other words the administrator can manage an available transmission medium for each user. For a medium for which a user does not have use authority the administrator can also select whether to notify the user of the absence of use authority. Further the administrator can give a user a suggestion to use a medium for which the user does not have use authority. Instead of notifying a user whether he has use authority the administrator can also set to notify the user of a failure in a transmission attempt after transmission.

When the grouped destination contains a destination corresponding to a transmission medium for which the current user does not have authority the administrator can notify the user whether he has authority according to the above described four methods. That is the administrator restricts selection of transmission destinations in the grouped destination or displays a transmission result after transmission.

The embodiment has described an example of restricting data transmission in accordance with user s authority for a destination registered in the address book. However the present invention can also be applied to a case where the address book does not hold a destination and the user inputs it every transmission manual transmission . In manual transmission the user selects a transmission medium for use. At this time the user record registered in the user management table is referred to and it is determined whether the user has use authority to use the selected transmission medium. If the user does not have authority a warning is displayed. In this way transmission can be restricted by reflecting user s authority even in manual transmission.

In the above description a transmission process is executed by an operation through the operation unit . However the present invention is not limited to this and the host computer connected via the LAN may utilize the transmission function of the digital multifunction device . In this case the host computer specifies a user by prompting him to input an ID through a browser or driver software for the multifunction device and restricts an available transmission medium similar to the above described process.

Note that the present invention can be applied to an apparatus comprising a single device or to system constituted by a plurality of devices.

Furthermore the invention can be implemented by supplying a software program which implements the functions of the foregoing embodiments directly or indirectly to a system or apparatus reading the supplied program code with a computer of the system or apparatus and then executing the program code. In this case so long as the system or apparatus has the functions of the program the mode of implementation need not rely upon a program.

Accordingly since the functions of the present invention are implemented by computer the program code itself installed in the computer also implements the present invention. In other words the claims of the present invention also cover a computer program for the purpose of implementing the functions of the present invention.

In this case so long as the system or apparatus has the functions of the program the program may be executed in any form e.g. as object code a program executed by an interpreter or scrip data supplied to an operating system.

Examples of storage media that can be used for supplying the program are a floppy disk a hard disk an optical disk a magneto optical disk a CD ROM a CD R a CD RW a magnetic tape a non volatile type memory card a ROM and a DVD DVD ROM and a DVD R .

As for the method of supplying the program a client computer can be connected to a website on the Internet using a browser of the client computer and the computer program of the present invention or an automatically installable compressed file of the program can be downloaded to a recording medium such as a hard disk. Further the program of the present invention can be supplied by dividing the program code constituting the program into a plurality of files and downloading the files from different websites. In other words a WWW World Wide Web server that downloads to multiple users the program files that implement the functions of the present invention by computer is also covered by the claims of the present invention.

Further it is also possible to encrypt and store the program of the present invention on a storage medium such as a CD ROM distribute the storage medium to users allow users who meet certain requirements to download decryption key information from a website via the Internet and allow these users to decrypt the encrypted program by using the key information whereby the program is installed in the user computer.

Furthermore besides the case where the aforesaid functions according to the embodiments are implemented by executing the read program by computer an operating system or the like running on the computer may perform all or a part of the actual processing so that the functions of the foregoing embodiments can be implemented by this processing.

Furthermore after the program read from the storage medium is written to a function expansion board inserted into the computer or to a memory provided in a function expansion unit connected to the computer a CPU or the like mounted on the function expansion board or function expansion unit performs all or a part of the actual processing so that the functions of the foregoing embodiments can be implemented by this processing.

While the present invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the disclosed exemplary embodiments. The scope of the following claims is to be accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications and equivalent structures and functions.

This application claims the benefit of Japanese Patent Application No. 2005 288154 filed on Sep. 30 2005 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

