---

title: System and method to profit by purchasing unsecured debt and negotiating reduction in amount due
abstract: A purchase of debt system (“PODS”) and process that allows a debtor and entity using the system to financially benefit by exploiting the errors, fraud and inefficiencies contained in debts, such as medical bills. Specifically, the type of debt associated with, for example, medical bills is debt liability that has no asset(s) associated with it. The debtor is benefited by assigning the debt and associated liability, at a reduced price, to a third party (the entity using the system). The entity using the system then obtains a financial benefit by settling the debt, with the creditor, for an amount less than that paid to it by the debtor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08706616&OS=08706616&RS=08706616
owner: 
number: 08706616
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20120620
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 498 835 filed Jun. 20 2011. The contents of that application are hereby incorporated by reference.

This invention relates to a system and method for creating value in debt liabilities that do not have an asset attached to the debt unsecured debt . Specifically a debtor pays their debt at a reduced price to an assignee or guarantor or step in entity who then accepts liability for the debt allowing the debtor to realize a financial gain then the assignee or guarantor or step in entity applies a system and process allowing the assignee or guarantor or step in entity to benefit by exploiting inefficiencies billing errors medical necessity cash flow leverage improper billing over treating negotiating over billing malpractice re pricing of the bill and other methods that may be applied to the outstanding debt so as to lower the actual amount due aka outstanding debt below the amount paid to the assignee or guarantor or step in entity by the debtor. In cases where the system and process applied to the debt does not result in a financial gain to the assignee or guarantor or step in entity a financial gain is then realized by working the margins on a larger set of debts and while one instance may result in a loss a systematic approach results in a financial gain over time.

It is common knowledge in the medical community that medical bills contain billing errors intentional upcoding over charging unbundling over treating CPT code errors incorrect modifiers medical errors incorrect location incorrect time units medical necessity use of an assistant surgeon a surgeon billing who did not perform the operation and other inefficiencies that increase the amount of money owed by the patient guarantor. It is also becoming more common for companies to negotiate down the patient s responsibility for the medical bill or to audit the bill for incorrect charges. Companies generally do this on a fee for service basis or on a contingency fee basis.

Purchasing debt liabilities from a creditor is not new. An example is ABC Company purchasing credit card debit from a credit card company for 0.06 on the dollar and then pursuing the debt for the full amount due from the debtor. Example ABC Company will pay the credit card company 100 000 for 6 000 000 in debt owed to the credit card company. In this case ABC Company bought the debt from the creditor so the debt had no asset attached to it in the form of repayment from cardholders as credit cards are unsecured loans.

Assuming debt as part of a larger asset purchase has also been common. An example is XYZ Corporation will sell an operating unit to 123 Corporation in exchange for stock in 123 Corporation and 123 Corporation assuming the full amount of an outstanding debt due. In this case the assumption of the debt is part of the overall asset purchase and is a mechanism used to provide consideration consideration as used in contract law in lieu of a cash payment.

Transferring debt as part of a business dissolution or marital divorce also is not new. In these situations a court will order one party to pay an outstanding debt as part of the dissolution of the two parties. However in this case the debt is part of an asset liability distribution ordered by a court and is therefore applied in a different context than the present invention. For example the debt is not sold to a third party.

Viatical Settlements also have become common Viatical Settlements use the practice of assigning a benefit a k a asset from an insurance company for the policy owner to a third party in exchange for paying the ongoing premiums and a monetary payment to the policy holder. As will be explained below the present invention is different because only debt is being assigned transferred incurred whereas Viatical Settlements transfer the monetary insurance benefit the asset and the on going premium payments are made by the Viatical Settlement company to ensure there is no denial of a benefit payout due to non payment of premiums.

A system and method is described that unlike these prior art methods allows an entity to create value in debt liabilities for unsecured debts. The invention is directed to such a system and method.

Patient Advocacy companies often referred to as advocates in the health care industry work to lower the patient s responsibility i.e. the cost of medical bills on a contingency fee for a percentage of the savings or flat fee basis. The present invention recognizes that if the medical debt is purchased the revenue margins increase dramatically. First there is profit made due to negotiating a lower outstanding debt. Second the advocacy company also may seek reimbursement from the insurance company s allowing a 2 two fold return on the investment when compared to strictly working the claim on a contingency fee basis. For example 

The present invention is different than the flat fee or contingency fee methods described above in that the person who owes the debt herein Debtor is paying the person or entity implementing the purchase of debt system of the invention herein PODS a reduced fee to accept assignment or be the primary guarantor or transfer or act as the step in entity of the total liability or to be the primary guarantor of the debt owed or act as the step in entity for the Debtor. The assignee guarantor or the step in entity then applies the PODS system to obtain money from the payer and to reduce the debt liability to an amount that is lower than the amount the PODS entity received from Debtor. The result is a financial gain for both the Debtor and the PODS entity. Moreover since the assignee guarantor or the step in entity owns the debt this approach overcomes a provider s policies of not working with a third party to negotiate resolution of a debt.

In an exemplary embodiment the invention includes computer implemented methods mathematical models and algorithms computer systems and computer readable storage media including instructions that when processed by a processor enable the processor to implement methods for an entity using the PODS system to realize a financial gain by purchasing debt at specific price and then obtaining insurance reimbursement and or obtaining a lower settlement amount with the creditor. In exemplary embodiments such method includes the steps of 

the Seller uploads a scanned image of the medical bill and insurance statement EOB to the PODS computer system 

the PODS computer system stores the entered information in a physical binary structure that is stored on a computer readable storage medium as a PODS database 

the PODS computer system then scans the medical bill and EOB and populates the PODS database with this data and

the PODS computer system executes queries that contain mathematical models and algorithms over the data stored in the PODS database and results are produced.

In the exemplary embodiment execution of the mathematical models and algorithms includes executing computer code that processes historical data of past settlements in order to predict the provider s settlement price. This query returns a few different results each based on a different mathematical model so that the PODS computer system may evaluate the predicted settlement price in different ways. Execution of the mathematical models and algorithms also includes executing computer code that processes the data inputted by the Seller to predict the provider s settlement price. This method is strictly a mathematical model and does not use historic data. Based on the processing of the computer algorithms a mathematical model and result is determined. The mathematical result is compared to pre determined criteria to determine if the PODS computer system desires to purchase the debt liability based on pre established criteria.

The PODS computer system returns a result to the Seller stating whether or not the user of the PODS computer system wants to purchase the debt or not. If the user of the PODS computer system does not want to make an offer to purchase the debt it will state this on the computer display screen and the process ends. However if the user of the PODS computer system does want to make an offer to purchase the debt an appropriate indication will be displayed on the computer display screen. The Seller may then choose to accept or decline the offer. If the Seller declines the offer then that is the end of the process. If the Seller chooses to accept the offer then the PODS computer system will query the physical PODS database for the legal language and then make a transformative document inputting the Seller s information the medical bill information and the purchase price that was determined by the mathematical models. The transformative document will be displayed via a computer display and the Seller must decide whether he she wants to decline or accept the offer to purchase the debt made by the PODS computer system. If the Seller declines the offer the transformative documents containing legal language then that is the end of the process. If the Seller does accept the offer made by the PODS computer system then the PODS computer system will display payment information. This will be a software display where the Seller may enter his her credit card or electronic checking information.

After payment is made by the Seller the PODS computer system will create a transformative letter that will be sent electronically to the creditor stating that the user of the PODS computer system has assumed the liability for the debt. If the Seller s credit rating was affected by the outstanding medical bill then the PODS computer system will generate a transformative letter by inputting specific data from the Seller s contact information and pre determined contract language and email this letter to the Seller or to the credit bureau i.e. TransUnion Equifax Experian . The user of the PODS computer system will utilize his her skill to i seek reimbursement from a payer negotiate with the creditor to accept a lower offer obtain a grant or charity care to help lower or pay the medical bill audit the medical bill for errors identify another payer i.e. malpractice carrier homeowners and or find other ways to lower the debt. The results of the Seller s payment price and demographic details are entered into the PODS database. The results of the settlement of the medical debt are entered into the PODS database and process is then complete.

Among the benefits of this invention are the immediate decision by the algorithm within 3 seconds to purchase or not purchase the medical debt. This is very important because this helps to ensure the Seller will sell the medical debt. Behavioral studies show that the longer it takes and the more complicated the transaction the less likely a consumer is to purchase a good. The improved timing further means that the user of the PODS computer system may conduct more transactions than would be possible by mere human interaction. The increased efficiencies also provide cost savings. Since the PODS computer system is faster the timely filing issues associated with appeals and accounts being sent to collection are averted. If the system was tried via human means there would be a delay in working files and there would be rejections on the part of payers with regards to appeals and increased difficulties with creditors because the delays would cause files to be sent to collection companies and lawyers for legal action. Such problems are averted by the PODS system of the invention.

A detailed description of illustrative embodiments of the present invention will now be described with reference to . Although this description provides a detailed example of possible implementations of the present invention it should be noted that these details are intended to be exemplary and in no way delimit the scope of the invention.

Step The Debtor inputs data or and that data is transmitted over a network to the information server . Data may also be stored in an electronic file and imported transferred to the information server via computer readable storage medium. At this time the Debtor will be offered financial protections as described in Section X below.

Step The information server will then execute computer code to process the data inputted by the Debtor in accordance with predetermined algorithms and mathematical equations as described in Section IV Transformative Analysis of the Data. 

Step A The Post Analysis Reporting per Section VI will be executed. The results for the calculated variables will populate the offer to sell the debt and populate the agreement FIG. alternative embodiments in and . The Debtor will then accept or decline the offer to sell the debt. In an alternative embodiment the entity using the PODS system PODS entity could request that the provider a k a creditor authorize the transfer of the debt a k a novation from the Debtor to the PODS entity. Another alternative embodiment is to allow the Debtor to input the total amount due and a price he she is willing to pay to transfer the debt liability. Then the PODS system would do the mathematical modeling and accept or decline the amount offered by the Debtor.

Step B The Post Analysis Reporting per Section VI will be executed. The natural person using the PODS system will be presented with the anticipated settlement amount of the debt . Knowing the anticipated settlement amount the person using the PODS system may then engage in an offer and acceptance discussion or communication via IM email etc. and determine a final amount for which the debt will be sold to the PODS entity. The Debtor will then accept or decline the offer to sell the debt. In an alternative embodiment the PODS entity could request that the provider a k a creditor authorize the transfer of the debt from Debtor to the PODS entity. This complies with the legal concept of novation.

Step Acceptance of offer by Debtor. If accepted by the Debtor the offer and terms of the agreement or will be presented and the Debtor may Accept or Decline the offer. If the Debtor is not present then the terms of the agreement or may be sent via US Mail facsimile emailed or conveyed over the phone. The Debtor would then agree to the terms or decline the offer. If the offer were accepted then the entity using the PODS system would collect payment via a credit card check Paypal distribution from a Flexible Spending Account industry acronym FSA distribution from a Healthcare Reimbursement Account industry acronym HAS or similar payment method and then continue to Step . Also at this time the provider would be notified that the PODS entity is responsible for the debt. A financial responsibility letter or would be used for this purpose. If the Debtor did not accept the offer the process would terminate at this time.

Step Working the Debt. Per Section VII Working the Debt the debt will be worked after all insurance s have met paid out or denied their obligations in an effort to obtain a settlement and all charities and grants have been tried. An alternative embodiment includes accepting payment from the Debtor prior to the insurance paying. In such an embodiment the estimated insurance payment would be calculated into the price accepted by the PODS entity in order to accept the liability of the debt.

Step Post Settlement Data. Per Section IX all of the variables in the experience data table will be updated after the debt has been settled. This updated information may then be used for new transactions.

The data needed from the Debtor may be obtained using a paper process or a computer implemented process.

The Debtor or their loved ones on their behalf who have a debt will be interviewed and the variable fields in or will be filled in with the relevant information. After the data is inputted on paper the information will be entered into the PODS system where the transformative analysis will be performed on the data resulting in the final price that the entity utilizing the PODS system would be willing to accept from the Debtor for the outstanding debt. This final dollar amount will then be filled in on the paper agreement.

Software will present data like that illustrated in or . The Debtor will input the data requested answer the questions asked and upload an image of the invoice or information on the outstanding debt. The information will be transmitted over a computer network to the PODS system where the transformative analysis will occur. Once the transformative analysis has occurred software will present an appropriate agreement to the Debtor via user interface as illustrated in or . The agreement will be presented with all of the variable fields filled out with post analysis results.

Note An alternative implementation is the image of the invoice may be emailed sent via facsimile or other transmission mechanism and the PODS entity would attach the image to the data received via or .

The experience data table will be stored in a physical binary structure that is stored on a computer readable storage medium. Each time a debt is settled the experience data table will be populated with the results. This is how the experience data will be created and or updated. Additionally experience data may be acquired and merged into the experience data table in a physical binary structure that is stored on the computer readable storage medium from data gathered by other organizations or is inputted from information gathered from a provider s written policies.

Determining the final price to accept from the Debtor for an outstanding debt is comprised of the processes and computer implemented algorithms described in this section.

Based on the input received from the user inputs in or the name and address of the provider is inputted into the system along with the other information and transmitted to the information gateway and server . Data matching is conducted to match the provider information sent with the unique provider identification herein UID number in the experience database that is stored in a physical binary structure on computer readable memory . The variables may be matched based on the provider s Tax ID number the provider s name and address the provider s National Provider Identifier number their NPI number or other ways.

Once the UID is identified computer code is executed and a data analysis via an algorithm is performed using and algorithm and mathematical model described below on the experience data table and all the experience records for the UID are collected. Based on this information additional data analysis is performed utilizing the data that was returned . First the data associated with the UID is analyzed for the experience rating on all of the records for a given period of time e.g. the past three 3 years along with the number of records in the data table. Second the data is analyzed based on a specific data set based on the amount of the debt. In this second analysis the results will be based on the amount of the debt plus and minus a monetary variable given by the entity utilizing the PODS computer system along with the number of records in the temporary data table .

Example The debt is 3 000. The monetary variable for the second data analysis is determined to be 500. In this case the second data analysis will provide results for every experience data table record between 2 500 and 3 500 for that UID.

Third the data is analyzed using the following analysis algorithms mathematical models all of which are explained below 

Based on the data inputted in or the data variables described above will be used to develop the Total Experience Rating Analysis herein Total ERA . The table below Table which is stored in a physical binary structure on computer readable storage medium contains data elements over which the first software data algorithm is executed. The first software data algorithm extracts all records for the specific provider via UID variable UID in the data table below from the experience data table . The results of the data analysis by the algorithm are then written to a new temporary table that is stored on a computer readable storage medium.

The second software data algorithm is then run over the new temporary data table . The data analysis by this algorithm provides two results. Procedure which will be herein referred to as Total ERA is an experience rating based on the results of every data record in the new temporary table . Specifically for each record in the new table the following mathematical model embodied in computer code will be run over the record and the result stored in computer memory 

Procedure Compute the average for each record Total ERA add all Procedure 1 Results together Total number of records

In short Procedure takes the average reduction of the debt in percent for every record for the specific provider specific UID . Each result is then stored in computer random access memory. Procedure takes the average of all the results for each record stored in memory and produces the Total ERA . That variable Total ERA is then stored in the computer s random access memory for use by the Post Analysis Reporting as described in Section VI below.

While calculating the results for Total ERA the computer code will also calculate the Total ERA Risk Ratio Total ERA RES by averaging the RES results . After the Total ERA RES is calculated the Total ERA Cost to Work File and the Total ERA Risk Ratio will be determined Total ERA Cost to Work File Total ERA RES in decimal form average cost to work file fixed costs associated with working the file Total ERA Risk Ratio Total ERA RES 100 . It is noted that the Specific Calculation Total ERA Specific ERA DMDRA etc. Cost To Work File is a mathematical algorithm that predicts how much it will cost the PODS entity to obtain a settlement while the Specific Calculation Total ERA Specific ERA DMDRA etc. Risk Ratio is a mathematical algorithm that predicts the chances that purchasing the debt will result in a monetary loss to the PODS entity.

If the Total ERA Cost to Work File is greater than the Selling Price where the Selling Price means the price the Debtor would pay for the PODS system to accept the debt liability minus the Total ERA price then no offer to purchase the debt will be made. Further if the Total ERA Risk Ratio is too high as predetermined by the PODS entity then no offer to purchase the debt will be made.

The second result which will be referred to as Specific ERA is based on a mathematical model embodied in computer code for each data record where the debt amount in the new data table is equal to the debt amount inputted plus and minus a dollar amount that was predefined by the entity using the PODS system. The same steps used to determine the Total ERA are used the only difference being that the records analyzed are limited by the debt amount variable BAL below in Table plus and minus a predetermined amount identified by the entity using the PODS system. That variable Specific ERA is then stored in computer random access memory or on computer readable storage medium for use by the Post Analysis Reporting as described in Section VI below. A Post Analysis report is used since large debts often get a bigger reduction than small debts.

While calculating the results for Specific ERA the computer code will also calculate the Specific ERA RES by averaging the RES results . After the Specific ERA RES is calculated the Specific ERA Cost to Work File and the Specific ERA Risk Ratio will be determined Specific ERA Cost to Work File Specific ERA RES in decimal form average cost to work file fixed costs associated with working the file Specific ERA Risk Ratio Specific ERA RES 100 .

If the Specific ERA Cost to Work File . is greater than Selling Price Specific ERA price then no offer to purchase the debt will be accepted. Further if the Specific ERA Risk Ratio is too high as determined by the PODS entity then no offer to purchase the debt will be made.

It is noted that the experience data should have enough records in it to develop a true statistical sampling. Further records over 3 years provided there are a sufficient number of records for a statistical sampling should be deleted. The reason is because a provider s practices will change with new management and the best way to have analytical results reflect the way the creditor reacts to the PODS system is to use current data records only. This way the experience data table is reflective of the creditor s actions at any given period in time.

The mathematical model embodied in computer code for the Direct Match Debt Amount Rating Analysis herein DMDRA is determined through the following process. After verifying that the UIDs match the following steps will occur. Each record in the experience data table where the variables listed below in Table match the inputted variables in or will be determined to be a valid record and all the records will make a new temporary experience data table for this analysis .

If the following fields match then the record is inserted into the new temporary experience data table 

Once the new temporary experience database is created computer code with a mathematical model embodied in computer code in it will be run over the new experience data table. The code that will be run is the same as described in the Experience Rating Analysis ERA section above the only difference being that valid records are determined if the variables listed in Table described above match. The execution of this code will result with the variable DMDRA. That variable DMDRA is then stored in computer RAM memory or on a computer readable storage medium for use by the Post Analysis Reporting as described in Section VI below.

While calculating the results for DMDRA the computer code will also calculate the DMDRA RES by averaging the RES results . After the DMDRA RES is calculated the DMDRA Cost to Work File and the DMDRA Risk Ratio will be determined. DMDRA Cost to Work File DMDRA RES in decimal form average cost to work file fixed costs associated with working the file DMDRA Risk Ratio DMDRA RES 100 .

If the DMDRA Cost to Work File is greater than the Selling Price minus the DMDRA price then no offer to purchase the debt will be made. Further if the DMDRA Risk Ratio is too high as determined by the PODS entity then no offer to purchase the debt will be made.

Based on the data inputted in or the variables described above and in Table below will be used to develop the Global Analysis. The mathematical model embodied in computer code for the Global Analysis herein referred to as GA is 

If is used GA DED WV BAL DED AG WV HI WV FAC WV ELEC WV IN WV GEO WV COL WV LAW WV LIB WV ME WV A WV DEN WV APL WV CR WV B WV P WV NCB

An alternative embodiment for out of network providers is GA BAL AG WV DED WV HI WV FAC WV ELEC WV IN WV GEO WV COL WV LAW WV LIB WV ME WV A WV DEN WV APL WV CR WV B WV P WV NCB

If is used as the input mechanism the mathematical model embodied in the software would be GA DED WV BAL EP DED AG WV HI WV FAC WV ELEC WV IN WV GEO WV COL WV LAW WV LIB WV ME WV A WV DEN WV APL WV CR WV B WV P WV NCB WV 

An alternative embodiment for out of network providers is GA BAL EP AG WV DED WV HI WV FAC WV ELEC WV IN WV GEO WV COL WV LAW WV LIB WV ME WV A WV DEN WV APL WV CR WV B WV P WV NCB WV 

It is noted that while the variables are multiplied to determine a final value the mathematical operator which in the multiplication symbol in this implementation may be substituted with other mathematical operators etc. .

Each of the data elements listed above are weighted and based on them an estimated settlement price is determined. The PODS entity will then add a multiplier for profit margins and the Debtor may accept or decline the offer to sell the debt.

When the computer executable code is run the result returned is GA Estimated Settlement . GA will then be stored in computer RAM memory or on a computer readable storage medium for use during Post Analysis Reporting per Section VI below.

While calculating the results for GA the computer code will also calculate the GA Calculated RES by using the following mathematical model embodied in computer code GA Calculated RES DED WV BAL DED WV AG WV LAW WV COL WV IN WV 

An alternative embodiment for out of network providers GA Calculated RES AG WV BAL WV LAW WV COL WV IN WV DED WV 

After the GA Calculated RES is calculated the GA Cost to Work File and the GA Risk Ratio will be determined. GA Cost to Work File GA Calculated RES in decimal form average cost to work file fixed costs associated with working the file GA Risk Ratio GA Calculated RES 100 .

If the GA Cost to Work File is greater than the Selling Price minus GA Estimated Settlement then no offer to purchase the debt will be made. Further if the GA Risk Ratio is too high as determined by the PODS entity then no offer to purchase the debt will be made.

When the temporary Experience Rating Table is created for the Total ERA data analysis the variables COL and LAW will both be sets of the Boolean value of n n indicates a value of no or false . Computer code with the mathematical algorithm described herein will then be run over the new temporary data table to determine if there is any indication if either variable COL or LAW contains a y in the data table. Each instance of a y will be calculated and displayed by the computer software . The final result will look like this 

This indicates to the PODS user that there are 137 records in the data table and never as indicated by the N has the provider caused negative credit rating for the debtor and never has the provider ever commenced any legal action s . In such a situation the PODS entity may be aggressive in demanding a settlement with the provider because the PODS entity knows that historically there are no consequences for not settling the outstanding debt. If the results read like this Total ERA Collection Experience Law Y 110 COL Y 110 the PODS entity would know that the provider is very aggressive and adverse consequences would be initiated if the PODS entity did not settle the outstanding debt.

The same process as described above would be implemented the only difference being that the temporary data table will be used. In the case of the Specific ERA Collection Experience the data from the Specific ERA Experience data table would be used. In the case of the DMDRA Experience the data from the DMDRA ERA Experience data table would be used.

Specific ERA Cost to Work File and Specific ERA Risk Ratio will be calculated the same way the Total ERA Cost to Work File and the Total ERA Risk Ratio were the only difference being that the temporary data table for Specific ERA Experience data table would be used.

Once a final price was negotiated between the entity using the PODS system or an intermediary and the Debtor the final price is inputted into the system and an agreement or is created utilizing the data the sales person broker or intermediary inputted in or . This transformed document would then be sent to the Debtor via email displayed by computer software US mail facsimile or other method for acceptance of the terms and conditions.

Once one of the agreements or has been accepted electronic documents including instructions for repairing credit and a letter accepting assignment of the debt would be transformed with the data inputted from or and sent to the Debtor via email displayed by computer software US mail facsimile or other method. At this same time the transformed documents and would also be sent to the provider and or collection company that is owed the debt stating that the debt is owned by the PODS entity.

The variables Price RES Cost to Work File and Risk Ratio are used to determine if the PODS entity wants to make an offer to Debtor for the outstanding debt. If after applying mathematical modeling to these variables the PODS entity determines that the risk of monetary loss due to i risk on part of the provider ii risk based on a loss due to the cost of working the file or iii insufficient profits then no offer to purchase the debt will be made.

Similarly the Price variable will be used by the Debtor to determine if Debtor i wants to sell the debt for the amount offered ii can find a better offer elsewhere or iii has a tax incentive or other that offers a greater incentive than selling the debt at the price offered by the PODS entity.

Bonded It would be beneficial if The PODS entity was bonded for the following reasons. i The purpose for this is to ensure that the Debtor s money is not stolen by unscrupulous people. ii Case law has not been established for this invention. In order to show a court that the PODS entity is sincere in having the debt assigned to it the PODS entity will be bonded proving to the court that all actions are in good faith.

Financial Reserves Insurance companies must maintain financial reserves to ensure claims payments as outlined by state and federal laws. Because case law and governmental regulations have not been established the PODS entity should maintain financial reserves in the amount of several months of settlements to ensure provider bills will be settled. This is in an effort to show a court that the PODS entity is credible and acting in good faith.

When to begin working the debt The PODS entity must begin working the debt after any and all insurance companies have determined that their responsibility has been met. The reasons for this include i if the debt is lowered to the amount covered by the patient s deductible then the insurance company does not have to pay any portion of the claim. Because the insurance payment would then not be paid the provider will likely settle the debt at a higher amount of money thereby causing the PODS entity to lose money. ii If the settlement occurs after the insurer s payment then all amounts being settled or refunded are considered patient responsibility because providers are more concerned with settling the outstanding balances on the accounts than crediting and debiting insurance companies and patients based on settlement amounts.

If the PODS entity desired it would run a computer program with the mathematical model embodied in computer code over the experience rating table . Based on the provider UID match each valid record from the experience data table would be inserted into a new temporary experience data table . Computer code with a data analysis calculation would then be employed seeking to return two variables.

The first variable would be determined by BAL minus STL based on M M being the name of the natural person at the provider s office who settled the debt. The computer code would then determine which variable M a k a which natural person at the provider s office resulted in the best settlement results as illustrated in . In short the computer code determines which person M results in the best settlements for the entity using the PODS system. The purpose of this is to identify the person at the provider s office facility with whom the entity using the PODS system would want to engage in settlement discussions. This result would then be displayed to the entity using the PODS system or could be sent via email or other means.

The second result from the computer code would be the provider s fiscal year end as illustrated in . Often companies seek to close out their accounting records open invoices and other financial measures. Based on this the entity using the PODS system would be provided with the date of the provider s fiscal year end so that the entity could determine what calendar date is best to approach the provider for settlement of the debt. Similarly the PODS entity may try to settle a large number of debts at this time because the PODS entity is likely to receive a greater reduction when settling the debts.

The downside of this approach is that some providers have developed guidelines on the amount of a discount. is such an example. To overcome policies like these the entity using the PODS system must review the provider s billing searching for errors to dispute. Such an example may be finding a male charged for a hysterectomy. Such audits like this overcome a provider s policy on negotiating patient debt because the settlement is based on improper billing and not a straight discount. Straight discounts are subject to Medicare and Medicaid guidelines and contracts with private insurance companies.

The PODS entity would audit the bill for billing errors upcoding over treating over charging medical errors and any other intentional or unintentional billing coding that would increase the amount of the bill. By identifying errors intentional or unintentional the provider is not subject to discounting or negotiating guidelines and favored nations clauses imposed by Medicare Medicaid or private insurance carriers.

The PODS entity would then decide who at the provider s facility they wanted to try and contact and when in the fiscal year they wanted to approach that person to obtain the greatest amount of leverage.

If auditing the medical bill did not result in a satisfactory result for the entity using the PODS system then the PODS entity could instead negotiate the medical bill s or have the bills repriced. The PODS entity could also challenge the care given stating that the care was i not given ii coded properly iii standard accepted medical protocol iv part of a clinical trial v off label use vi not medical necessary or any other violation or excess of standard medical protocol.

Medicare has guidelines that all providers who participate in the Medicare program must follow. Such guidelines include i a provider may allow a discount to uninsured patients and ii a provider must try to obtain all deductibles and co insurances. Similarly private insurers have favored nations clauses. The invention allows the PODS entity to obtain greater reductions from providers because the debt will be owed by a company and not by a natural person. The greater reduction in the amount owed come from the fact that a settlement on the amounted owed is not dictated by Medicare guidelines therefore greater bargaining power exists. Further because the PODS entity is identifying billing errors the PODS entity may state that it is not negotiating the bill but found billing errors that allow the amount to be reduced.

All data collected along with the post settlement data which includes the variables STL DS M described above and any other missing variable are entered into the experience rating data table that is stored on readable computer storage medium for use with future analysis and or use.

The steps below may also be used by the PODS entity to obtain additional income by charging for the document or action as promised by the entity using the PODS system.

Advocacy companies have been negotiating provider bills for a flat fee and on a contingency fee basis. The average contingency fee is 30 of the savings. This means that if the advocacy company saved the Debtor 100 the advocacy company s fee would be 30.

The PODS method described herein is an improvement over the negotiating method because it i builds in financial protections for the Debtor ii uses the psychological phenomena of fear of lawsuit or credit that causes a Debtor to want to immediately sell their Debt iii uses the psychological phenomena of loss to result in a greater profit e.g. studies have shown that people fear losing the money they have more than they seek the reward of gaining more money. Based on this the PODS system works based on psychological factors. iv it allows the Debtor to be rid of the debt thereby not having to worry about it or spend resources servicing the debt i.e. dealing with the creditors collection agencies credit bureaus lawyers and other and v it allows the PODS entity a greater profit as illustrated in these examples 

Another advantage the PODS system has is double dipping. Specifically a 2007 Harvard University study stated Harvard researchers say 62 of all personal bankruptcies in the U.S. in 2007 were caused by health problems and 78 of those filers had insurance. In such situations it is often the case where the insurance company denied payment on the claim. This invention allows the PODS entity to have the insurance benefit assigned to it while it also reduces the balance due.

So how does the PODS entity double dip Advocacy companies work cases on a contingency fee for a percentage of the recovery. If the medical debt is purchased the revenue margins increase dramatically. First the advocacy company may seek reimbursement from the insurance company allowing a 2 two fold return on the investment when compared to strictly working the claim on a contingency fee basis. Second at the same time there is profit made when negotiating the debt with the provider.

While assigning insurance benefits is not new the difference or improvement in some cases is that there are no insurance benefits being assigned. In these instances the insurance company denied payment so there is no insurance benefit associated with the claim. Instead the PODS entity is going to have to create value in the denied claim in order to obtain payment from an insurance company.

Another improvement over negotiating bills is the Collection Experience Rating. In a negotiating environment the advocacy company is forced to work with the provider and reach a settlement otherwise the advocacy company may risk a lawsuit if the Debtor suffers any adverse consequences i.e. bad credit rating or lawsuit is started . If the debt is assigned transferred or the PODS entity acts as a guarantor or step in entity then the Collection Experience Rating system may be employed.

Providers often do not use collection companies because the providers want to maintain a positive relationship with the patient. The reason for this is because the provider wants the patient to come back to them the next time the patient or their family member becomes ill. Because of that sending a collection company after a patient to collect on a debt causes problems in that the patient and their friends or family may avoid the provider in the future. The PODS entity will contract with provider s to recover on the outstanding debt in a manner that is not adversarial and one that maintains a positive relationship between the provider and patient thereby allowing the patient to feel comfortable to use the provider again in the future.

The possibility for subrogation via the health insurance company is determined via calculation and variables. When using this implementation the final results displayed via software would include the potential for monetary gain by way of the insurance company paying the claim s and the final result displayed would be calculated to reflect that.

Providers third party administrators and other entities are instituting polices and or declaring that they do not work or interact with third parties. These entities will only work with the patient. These entities do so because it ensures the entity s relationship with the patient. Also when it comes to reducing a medical bill the entities know that they will settle the bill for more money from a lay person a.k.a. the patient than from a professional. Because of this they alienate the third party and declare that they will only work with the patient.

Because the PODS entity has accepted assignment or is acting as the guarantor or as step in entity or has allowed the debt to be transferred to the PODS entity the issues of only working with third parties has been alleviated.

When it is not possible to negotiate with the Debtor over the Selling Price and the medical bills are not on an auction site like E bay then there are two computerized mathematical models that will be employed to determine the amount for which Debtor is willing to sell the bill. They are the Calculated Estimate of Seller s Selling Point herein CESSP and the Experience Rating of Seller s Selling Point herein ERSSP . Variables for use in such calculations include 

Computer software will be used to produce a mathematical model of the CESSP value. The computer software will run a formula in the computer s random access memory using the following variables and mathematical operand. If an experience rating for the provider exists then the computer will run software with the following instruction set CESSP TOTAL ERA CR WV ZIP WV PPM Age of Bill 

If an experience rating for the provider does not exist then the computer will run software with the following instruction set CESSP GA CR WV ZIP WV PPM Experience Rating of Seller s Selling Point 

A data table stored on computer readable medium will be stored for every Debtor that uses the system. When a Debtor agrees to sell the debt to the PODS entity the ERSSP data table will be updated with the terms of the sale so that an experience rating may be determined in the future. Further the Debtor s zip code and gender are also stored so that predictive modeling may be used in the future based on these variables.

If an experience rating for the provider does not exist then the computer will run software with the following instruction set 

If an experience rating for the provider does exist then the computer will run software with the following instruction set. Every record in the ERSSP where the USID is for the Debtor currently selling the bill will be copied into a temporary data table. Then each record a computer software will be run over the data with the following instruction set SOLD BAL 100 each result will then be stored in Random Access Memory. Once the percentage for which the bill was sold is calculated for each record all results will be averaged and stored in random access memory in the variable AVG SOLD.

In an exemplary embodiment as illustrated in the invention includes computer implemented methods mathematical models and algorithms computer systems and computer readable storage media including instructions that when processed by a processor enable the processor to implement methods for an entity using the PODS system to realize a financial gain by purchasing debt at specific price and then obtaining insurance reimbursement or obtaining a lower settlement amount with the creditor. In exemplary embodiments such method includes the steps of 

the Seller uploads a scanned image of the medical bill and insurance statement EOB to the PODS computer system 

the PODS computer system stores the entered information in a physical binary structure that is stored on a computer readable storage medium as a PODS database 

the PODS computer system then scans the medical bill and EOB and populates the PODS database with this data and

the PODS computer system executes queries that contain mathematical models and algorithms over the data stored in the PODS database and results are produced .

In the exemplary embodiment execution of the mathematical models and algorithms includes executing computer code that processes historical data of past settlements in order to predict the provider s settlement price. This query returns a few different results each based on a different mathematical model so that the PODS computer system may evaluate the predicted settlement price in different ways. Execution of the mathematical models and algorithms also includes executing computer code that processes the data inputted by the Seller to predict the provider s settlement price. This method is strictly a mathematical model and does not use historic data. Based on the processing of the computer algorithms a mathematical model and result is determined. The mathematical result is compared to pre determined criteria to determine if the PODS computer system desires to purchase the debt liability based on pre established criteria.

At the PODS computer system returns a result to the Seller stating whether or not the user of the PODS computer system wants to purchase the debt or not. If the user of the PODS computer system does not want to make an offer to purchase the debt it will state this on the computer display screen and the process ends . However if the user of the PODS computer system does want to make an offer to accept purchase the debt an appropriate indication will be displayed on the computer display screen . The Seller may then choose to accept or decline the offer . If the Seller declines the offer then that is the end of the process . If the Seller chooses to accept the offer then the PODS computer system will query the physical PODS database for the legal language and then make a transformative document inputting the Seller s information the medical bill information and the purchase price that was determined by the mathematical models . The transformative document e.g. or will be displayed via a computer display and the Seller must decide whether he she wants to decline or accept the offer to purchase the debt made by the PODS computer system. If the Seller declines the offer transformative documents containing legal language then that is the end of the process . If the Seller does accept the offer made by the PODS computer system then the PODS computer system will display payment information . This will be a software display where the Seller may enter his her credit card or electronic checking information.

After payment is made by the Seller the PODS computer system will create a transformative letter e.g. as illustrated in or that will be sent electronically to the creditor stating that the user of the PODS computer system has assumed the liability for the debt . If the Seller s credit rating was affected by the outstanding medical bill then the PODS computer system will generate a transformative letter by inputting specific data from the Seller s contact information and pre determined contract language and email this letter to the Seller or to the credit bureau i.e. TransUnion Equifax Experian . The user of the PODS computer system will utilize his her skill to i seek reimbursement from a payer negotiate with the creditor to accept a lower offer obtain a grant or charity care to help lower or pay the medical bill audit the medical bill for errors identify another payer i.e. malpractice carrier homeowners and or find other ways to lower the debt . The results of the Seller s payment price and demographic details are entered into the PODS database . The results of the settlement of the medical debt are entered into the PODS database and process is then complete .

In an exemplary embodiment illustrated in a payer would utilize the PODS system in the following manner as this embodiment provides efficiencies speed increased knowledge as the Payer already has the required information stored in its computer system 

Step A payer will scan its claim forms and use software that extracts claims data to populate a database for processing its claims in its usual manner.

Step The payer will run a mathematical formula over the claims data to determine if there is a patient responsibility portion due.

Step If there is patient responsibility due the payer s computer system will run a computer query over the data to extract the Seller s contact information all claims details and whether or not the provider is in network or out of network.

Step The PODS computerized system enters the information extracted from the payer s data into the PODS computerized system. This information is stored in a physical binary structure that is stored on computer readable medium.

Step The PODS system executes computer queries that contain mathematical models and algorithms over its historic data and results are produced. Computer code is executed including over the physical binary data structure that contains historical data of past settlements in order to predict the provider s settlement price. Of note is that this query returns a few different results each based on a different mathematical model so the PODS entity may evaluate the predicted settlement price different ways. Computer code including an algorithm also is run over the data that is inputted by the Seller to predict the provider s settlement price. This method is strictly a mathematical model and does not use historic data. Based on the computer algorithms a mathematical model and result is determined. The mathematical result is compared to pre determined criteria to determine if the PODS entity wants to purchase the debt liability.

Step The PODS system will decide whether or not the PODS entity wants to purchase the debt. If the PODS entity does not want to make an offer to purchase the debt that is the end of the process .

Step If the PODS entity does want to make an offer to purchase the debt it will create a transformative document based on the information extracted from the claim data and the results of the mathematical formula and incorporate that into a new document that may be sent to the Seller with the payer s electronic claims system or incorporated with the payer s EOB that is sent via US Mail. An example of such a document may be found in .

Step The Seller may then choose to accept or decline the offer . If the Seller declines the offer then that is the end of the process. If the Seller chooses to accept the offer then the seller will access the payer s computer system via the Internet unless the Seller was accessing the payer s electronic claims system in which case the Seller would already be in the payer s electronic claims system.

Step The PODS entity will query the physical binary data structure for the legal language and then make a transformative document inputting the Seller s information the medical bill information and the purchase price that was determined by the mathematical models . Examples of the transformative document may be found in or .

Step The transformative document will be displayed via a computer display to the Seller and the Seller must decide whether he she wants to decline or accept the offer to purchase the debt made by the PODS entity. If the Seller declines the offer transformative documents containing legal language then that is the end of the process . If the Seller does accept the offer made by the PODS entity then the PODS computer system will display payment information . The software will then display the electronic payment mechanism where the Seller may enter his her credit card or electronic checking information.

Step After payment is made by the Seller the PODS computer system will create a transformative letter that will be sent electronically to the creditor stating that the PODS entity has assumed the liability for the debt. An example of such a letter may be found in or .

Step Next the PODS entity will utilize its skill to seek reimbursement form a payer negotiate with the creditor to accept a lower offer obtain a grant or charity care to help lower or pay the medical bill audit the medical bill for errors identify another payer i.e. malpractice carrier homeowners and or find other ways to lower the debt.

Step The results of the Seller s payment price and demographic details are entered into the PODS historical database that is stored in a physical binary data structure on the computer readable medium.

Step the results of the settlement of the medical debt are entered into the PODS historical database that is stored in a physical binary data structure on computer readable medium. The process is then complete .

Some of the processes in this application may be altered. For example is used in situations where the insurance company s has already exhausted the insurance benefit while is used when a debtor wants to sell the debt prior to the insurance benefit being exhausted. The invention addresses assigning the debt acting as a guarantor and acting as a step in agent however other options include novation and are intended to be within the scope of the invention.

As another example U.S. Pat. No. 5 446 653 describes a method of financial protection based on the data inputted in . Note the following implementations refer to and depending on the implementation the PODS entity chose to use. 

1 If regarding lawsuits is checked yes then the following text will be inserted at Section 6 B ii in . If it is checked no then the text will not be inserted in .

2 If regarding credit repair is checked yes then will be sent to the Debtor via an electronic means i.e. email facsimile . If it is checked no then will not be sent to the Debtor.

Although not required the invention can be implemented via an application programming interface API for use by a developer or tester and or included within the network browsing software which will be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers e.g. client workstations servers or other devices . Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations. Other well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the invention include but are not limited to personal computers PCs server computers hand held or laptop devices multi processor systems microprocessor based systems programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. An embodiment of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

With reference to an example system for implementing the invention includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of the computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus and PCI Express bus.

The computer typically includes a variety of computer readable storage media. Computer readable storage media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer and includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable storage media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer readable storage media includes but is not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disc read only memory CDROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer . Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable storage media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as ROM and RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by the processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data . RAM may contain other data and or program modules.

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer readable storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the example operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer readable storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example the hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB .

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and a printer not shown which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on a memory device . Remote application programs include but are not limited to web server applications such as Microsoft Internet Information Services IIS and Apache HTTP Server which provides content which resides on the remote storage device or other accessible storage device to the World Wide Web. It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that a computer or other client devices can be deployed as part of a computer network. In this regard the present invention pertains to any computer system having any number of memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units or volumes. An embodiment of the present invention may apply to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment having remote or local storage. The present invention may also apply to a standalone computing device having programming language functionality interpretation and execution capabilities.

These and other advantages of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing specification. For example the system and process of the invention provide a way to repair a negative credit remark on a person s credit history by way of assigning the debt to another entity person then submitting proof of liability for the debt. In an another embodiment the PODS system may estimate the lowest amount to bid to purchase medical debt in an inverse auction or a buy it now auction like that run by E bay.com. Accordingly it will be recognized by those skilled in the art that changes or modifications may be made to the above described embodiments without departing from the broad inventive concepts of the invention. It should therefore be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular embodiments described herein but is rather intended to include all changes and modifications that are within the scope and spirit of the invention.

