---

title: Using corngrass1 to engineer poplar as a bioenergy crop
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to new bioenergy crops and methods of creating new bioenergy crops. For example, genes encoding microRNAs (miRNAs) are used to create transgenic crops. In some embodiments, over-expression of miRNA is used to produce transgenic perennials, such as trees, with altered lignin content or composition. In some embodiments, the transgenic perennials are spp. In some embodiments, the miRNA is a member of the miR156 family. In some embodiments, the gene is Cg1.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09334505&OS=09334505&RS=09334505
owner: THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, AS REPRESENTED BY THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE
number: 09334505
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120810
---
The present application for patent claims priority to and the benefit of the filing date of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 522 921 entitled USING CORNGRASS1 TO ENGINEER POPLAR AS A BIOENERGY CROP filed Aug. 12 2011 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

This invention was made with government support under contract number DE FG02 06ER64301 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy. The government has certain rights in the invention described herein.

Developing alternatives to fossil fuels has long been a worthwhile and valuable goal especially as obtaining sufficient fossil fuels to meet rising demands promises to become a substantial challenge. Thus there is a growing demand for biofuels. The U.S. Department of Energy has a set a goal of meeting 20 of U.S. gasoline demand with biofuels primarily ethanol by the year 2020.

In 2006 it was predicted that large quantities of ethanol would be produced in the future because of two federal actions. The two actions are 1 requiring that 7.5 billion gallons of renewable fuel be used in gasoline by 2012 Energy Policy Act EPACT 2005 and 2 providing a 0.51 tax credit per gallon of ethanol used as a transportation fuel. As expected there has been a rapid increase in construction of bio refineries in the U.S. resulting in achievement of the 8 billion gallon goal by 2007. These fuel production techniques rely on corn as a feedstock but these practices are not sustainable.

There are a number of problems with relying on corn as a major source of bioenergy. Corn grain used as a feedstock accounts for the vast majority of ethanol but there are competing uses food and feed vs. fuel . The production of enough corn to produce the necessary biofuel is simply not sustainable economically environmentally or energetically. Proponents suggest the use of corn stover which is the residual plant material after ears are removed can overcome some of these sustainability issues. Unfortunately this has not been the case.

Government incentives are shifting away from biofuel techniques that rely on corn grain as a feedstock. For example in the latest Farm Bill the corn ethanol subsidy went from 0.51 to 0.45 gallon and cellulosic ethanol subsidy of 1.01 gallon was instituted. It is clear that a variety of cellulosic feedstocks will be needed.

Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to new bioenergy crops and methods of creating new bioenergy crops. For example genes encoding microRNAs miRNA are used to create transgenic crops. In some embodiments over expression of miRNA is used to engineer perennials such as trees with altered lignin content or composition. In some embodiments the perennials are spp.

In one embodiment a method of producing a poplar plant with altered lignin content or composition as compared to a control poplar plant comprising inserting a gene encoding a miRNA into a construct introducing the construct into a cell to yield a transformed cell generating a transgenic poplar plant from the transformed cell and growing the transgenic poplar plant wherein the transgenic poplar plant exhibits altered lignin content or composition as compared to the control poplar plant. In some embodiments the miRNA is a member of the 156 miRNA family miR156 .

In some embodiments the transgenic poplar plant exhibits decreased lignin content as compared to the control poplar plant. In some embodiments the transgenic poplar plant exhibits increased lignin content as compared to the control poplar plant. In some embodiments the transgenic poplar plant exhibits a lignin composition having an increased ratio of syringyl units to guaiacyl units S G ratio as compared to the control poplar plant. In some embodiments the transgenic poplar plant exhibits a lignin composition having a decreased S G ratio as compared to the control poplar plant. In some embodiments the transgenic poplar plant exhibits altered reproductive capacity as compared to the control poplar plant.

In one embodiment the insertion of the gene results in transgenic plants having at least one of multiple stems faster growth higher carbohydrate levels and no or delayed flowering.

In one embodiment the miRNA targets a gene having an SBP box thereby affecting expression of the gene having the SBP box. In some embodiments the gene having the SBP box is expressed in a tissue specific gene. Examples of tissues in which genes having an SBP box are expressed include shoot apex leaf petiole node and internode. Examples of genes containing an SBP box include SBP4 and SBP5. At least 14 poplar genes contain an SBP box which is a highly conserved DNA binding domain.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a method of producing a poplar plant with altered lignin content or composition as compared to a control poplar plant comprising inserting a gene encoding Corngrass1 Cg1 into a construct introducing the Cg1 construct into a cell to yield a transformed cell generating a transgenic poplar plant from the transformed cell and growing the transgenic poplar plant wherein the transgenic poplar plant exhibits altered lignin content or composition as compared to the control poplar plant. In some embodiments the Cg1 gene originates from . In some embodiments the Cg1 gene is a gene homologous to the Cg1 gene. The homology may be as high as for example 60 65 70 75 80 85 80 95 or 100 at the amino acid sequence level. In some embodiments the Cg1 gene is SEQ ID NO 1.

In some embodiments the transgenic poplar plant exhibits decreased lignin content as compared to the control poplar plant. In some embodiments the transgenic poplar plant exhibits increased lignin content as compared to the control poplar plant. In some embodiments the transgenic poplar plant exhibits a lignin composition having an increased ratio of syringyl units to guaiacyl units as compared to the control poplar plant. In some embodiments the transgenic poplar plant exhibits a lignin composition having a decreased ratio of syringyl units to guaiacyl units as compared to the control poplar plant. In some embodiments the transgenic poplar plant exhibits altered reproductive capacity as compared to the control poplar plant.

In one embodiment the insertion of the Cg1 gene results in transgenic plants having at least one of multiple stems faster growth higher carbohydrate levels and no or delayed flowering. In some embodiments the insertion of the Cg1 gene results in transgenic plants having multiple stems that do not produce flowers.

In one embodiment the Cg1 gene targets a gene having an SBP box thereby affecting expression of the gene having the SBP box. In some embodiments the gene having the SBP box is expressed in a tissue specific gene. Examples of tissues in which genes having an SBP box are expressed include shoot apex leaf petiole node and internode. Examples of genes containing an SBP box include SBP4 and SBP5. At least 14 poplar genes contain an SBP box which is a highly conserved DNA binding domain.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a transgenic poplar plant comprising a Cg1 gene. In some embodiments the transgenic poplar plant further comprises having multiple stems that do not produce flowers. In some embodiments the transgenic poplar plant has reduced lignin content or altered lignin composition as compared to a control poplar plant. In still other embodiments the transgenic poplar plant further comprises having at least one of multiple stems faster growth higher carbohydrate levels reduced lignin content altered lignin composition and no or delayed flowering. In some embodiments the transgenic poplar plant further comprises altered reproductive capacity.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a transgenic poplar plant containing a polynucleotide comprising a SEQ ID NO 1 b the full length complement of SEQ ID NO 1 c the reverse full length complement of SEQ ID NO 1 or d the reverse full length sequence of SEQ ID NO 1.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a transgenic poplar plant comprising any portion of a SEQ ID NO 1 b the full length complement of SEQ ID NO 1 c the reverse full length complement of SEQ ID NO 1 or d the reverse full length sequence of SEQ ID NO 1 and having at least one of multiple stems faster growth higher carbohydrate levels reduced lignin content altered lignin composition and no or delayed flowering.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a transgenic poplar plant comprising a nucleotide sequence containing a member of the miR156 family. In some embodiments the transgenic poplar plant further comprises having at least one of multiple stems faster growth higher carbohydrate levels reduced lignin content altered lignin composition and no or delayed flowering.

Embodiments of the present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Additionally while embodiments are disclosed as comprising elements it should be understood that the embodiments may also consist of elements or consist essentially of elements. Where possible any terms expressed in the singular form herein are meant to also include the plural form and vice versa unless explicitly stated otherwise. Also as used herein the term a and or an shall mean one or more even though the phrase one or more is also used herein. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Embodiments of the present invention relate generally to new bioenergy crops and methods of creating new bioenergy crops. Transgenic microRNA expression in plants is a promising technique for creating new bioenergy crops with desired traits. Examples of desirable traits for bioenergy crops include but are not limited to crops that are vegetatively propagated have rooting ability have rapid growth have high conversion efficiency for achieving a state appropriate for the final end use have reduced lignin content or altered lignin composition have reproductive sterility to prevent diversion of carbohydrate away from vegetative growth and to prevent unwanted spread of the transgene i.e. transgene confinement and have biomass distributed across several stems to provide ease of harvesting.

MicroRNAs miRNAs are small non coding and regulatory RNAs that are naturally occurring and control developmental timing in animals such as and and in plants such as and . Naturally occurring miRNAs often have stage or tissue specific expression. Post transcriptional control occurs due to hairpin precursor formed as a result of inverted repeat as it gets cleaved and unwound. Post transcriptional control occurs also due to the miRNAs hybridizing to mRNA for degradation of target gene. Control can also be at the level of translation depending on the degree of complementarity of the binding site to the miRNA.

In some embodiments the crops of the present invention are woody perennials such as trees. It is well known that lignin is one of the main components of plant cell walls along with cellulose and hemicellulose. Lignin a complex phenolic polymer is a major part of the supportive structure of most woody plants including angiosperm and gymnosperm trees. Lignin generally constitutes about 25 of the dry weight of the wood making it the second most abundant organic compound on earth after cellulose. Lignin provides rigidity to wood for which it is well suited due in part to its resistance to biochemical degradation. However lignin serves as a detriment to the use of woody perennials for end uses such as bioenergy crops since the presence of lignin necessitates further processing of the plant material before it can be used for its intended purpose. Development of trees with altered lignin content or composition is therefore desirable as it improves conversion efficiency of processing possibly by reducing or removing the need for pretreatment.

In some embodiments miRNA over expression is used to produce perennials with altered lignin content or composition. Woody perennials such as poplars spp. are appealing candidates for creating new bioenergy crops. As used herein the term poplar or poplar plant refers to all of the spp. including hybrids.

In one embodiment a method of producing a poplar plant with altered lignin content or composition as compared to a control poplar plant comprising inserting a gene encoding a miRNA into a construct introducing the construct into a cell to yield a transformed cell generating a transgenic poplar plant from the transformed cell and growing the transgenic poplar plant wherein the transgenic poplar plant exhibits altered lignin content or composition as compared to the control poplar plant. As is well known to those of ordinary skill in the art a construct comprises a plasmid or vector containing a gene of interest along with promoter and regulator sequences essential to expression and regulation of the gene of interest in the recipient cell.

In some embodiments the miRNA is a member of the miR156 family which is a highly conserved family of miRNAs. Members of the miR156 family exist as tandem repeats.

In some embodiments the transgenic poplar plant exhibits altered lignin content or composition in the form of decreased lignin content as compared to the control poplar plant. In some embodiments the transgenic poplar plant exhibits altered lignin content or composition in the form of increased lignin content as compared to the control poplar plant. In some embodiments the transgenic poplar plant exhibits altered lignin content or composition in the form of a lignin composition having an increased ratio of syringyl units to guaiacyl units as compared to the control poplar plant. In some embodiments the transgenic poplar plant exhibits altered lignin content or composition in the form of a lignin composition having a decreased ratio of syringyl units to guaiacyl units as compared to the control poplar plant. The control poplar plant can be a wild type plant a calibrator transgenic line or any other poplar plant suitable for the purpose of comparison.

In one embodiment the insertion of the gene results in transgenic plants having at least one of multiple stems faster growth higher carbohydrate levels and no or delayed flowering. In one embodiment the insertion of the gene results in transgenic plants having altered reproductive capacity.

In one embodiment the gene encoding the miRNA is under the control of a constitutive promoter. In some embodiments the constitutive promoter is the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter.

In one embodiment the gene encoding the miRNA is under the control of a tissue specific promoter. In one embodiment the gene encoding the miRNA is under the control of a temporal specific promoter.

In one embodiment the miRNA targets a gene having an SBP box thereby affecting expression of the gene having the SBP box. The SPB box is a DNA binding domain. The term targets refers to the fact that the expressed miRNA binds to the SBP box or in some other way interferes with the normal expression or function of the genes containing the SBP box. In some embodiments the gene containing the SBP box is expressed in a tissue specific gene. Examples of tissues in which genes having an SBP box are expressed include shoot apex leaf petiole node and internode. Examples of genes containing an SBP box include SBP4 and SBP5. At least 14 poplar genes contain an SBP box.

Poplar is an attractive option for a bioenergy crop for a number of reasons including the following it is a perennial that redistributes minerals and nutrients on an annual basis reducing the need for supplemental fertilizer treatments.

Harvesting and handling options available for poplar increase landowner choices and profitability. For example poplar is harvested on multi year rotations reducing the amount of annual disturbance. Also if feedstock prices are low stems can be stored on the stump as it is easy to store and maintains stability during storage. Finally there is flexibility with regard to timing of harvest e.g. can occur in winter so that harvest can be timed to suit other needs.

Poplar provides ease of transformation in vitro regeneration and ex vitro propagation. There are abundant genomic resources sequence microarrays etc. available for analyzing poplar. Genotypes are adapted to growing across a wide geographical range and many pedigrees are available allowing for cultivation of poplar in a wide variety of environments.

As noted above development of trees with altered lignin content or composition is desirable as it improves conversion efficiency possibly by reducing or removing the need for pretreatment. In most woody species such as poplar lignin is mainly composed of guaiacyl G and syringyl S units. The availability of woody biomass with high S lignin increases the yield of biofuel per unit land area because of an increase in conversion efficiency. Woody species with high S lignin show an increased S G ratio. However trees with a lower S G ratio can also show an increase in conversion efficiency particularly if the overall level of lignin is decreased.

A number of binary vectors for lignin modification are known. As is understood by one of ordinary skill in the art each of the known binary vectors can be used in combination with miRNAs to modulate lignin content and composition in transgenic plants

Corngrass1 Cg1 is a gene isolated from corn L. that encodes a miRNA that controls the expression of several genes including some that specify meristem fate. Specifically Cg1 is a member of the miR156 family and encodes two tandem miR156 genes that are over expressed in the meristem and lateral organs. In some plant systems constitutive expression high levels of expression in all tissues at all times of the Cg1 gene has led to multiple stems i.e. a loss of apical dominance faster vegetative growth reproductive sterility and lower levels of lignin. The Cg1 gene was discovered by Dr. George Chuck of the Plant Gene Expression Center in Albany Calif. Dr. Chuck provided the binary vector construct described below and used in the examples herein. Dr. Chuck s work with the Cg1 gene and the patent application s currently in preparation for Dr. Chuck s Cg1 work are all incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a method of producing a poplar plant with altered lignin content or composition as compared to a control poplar plant comprising inserting a gene encoding Cg1 into a construct introducing the Cg1 construct into a cell to yield a transformed cell generating a transgenic poplar plant from the transformed cell and growing the transgenic poplar plant wherein the transgenic poplar plant exhibits altered lignin content or composition as compared to the control poplar plant. In some embodiments the Cg1 gene originates from corn. In some embodiments the Cg1 gene is a gene highly homologous to the corn Cg1 gene. The homology may be as high as for example 60 65 70 75 80 85 80 95 or 100 at the amino acid sequence level. In some embodiments the Cg1 gene is SEQ ID NO 1.

In some embodiments the Cg1 transgenic poplar plant exhibits altered lignin content or composition in the form of decreased lignin content as compared to the control poplar plant. In some embodiments the Cg1 transgenic poplar plant exhibits altered lignin content or composition in the form of an increased lignin content as compared to the control poplar plant. In some embodiments the Cg1 transgenic poplar plant exhibits altered lignin content or composition in the form of a lignin composition having an increased ratio of syringyl units to guaiacyl units as compared to the control poplar plant. In some embodiments the Cg1 transgenic poplar plant exhibits altered lignin content or composition in the form of a lignin composition having a decreased ratio of syringyl units to guaiacyl units as compared to the control poplar plant. The control poplar plant can be a wild type plant a calibrator transgenic line a transgenic line that does not express the transgenic gene or any other poplar plant suitable for the purpose of comparison.

In one embodiment the insertion of the Cg1 gene results in transgenic plants having at least one of multiple stems faster growth higher carbohydrate levels and no or delayed flowering. In one embodiment the insertion of the Cg1 gene results in transgenic plants having altered reproductive capacity.

In one embodiment the Cg1 gene targets a gene having an SBP box thereby affecting expression of the gene having the SBP box. In some embodiments the SBP box targeted is expressed in a tissue specific gene. Examples of tissues in which genes having an SBP box are expressed include shoot apex leaf petiole node and internode. Examples of genes containing an SBP box include SBP4 and SBP5. At least 14 poplar genes contain an SBP box.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a transgenic poplar plant comprising a Cg1 gene. In some embodiments the transgenic poplar plant further comprises having multiple stems that do not produce flowers. In some embodiments the Cg1 transgenic poplar plant further comprises having reduced lignin content or altered lignin composition as compared to a control poplar plant. In still other embodiments the transgenic poplar plant further comprises having at least one of multiple stems faster growth higher carbohydrate levels reduced lignin content altered lignin composition and no or delayed flowering. In some embodiments the transgenic poplar plant further comprises altered reproductive capacity.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a transgenic poplar plant containing a polynucleotide comprising a SEQ ID NO 1 b the full length complement of SEQ ID NO 1 c the reverse full length complement of SEQ ID NO 1 or d the reverse full length sequence of SEQ ID NO 1.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a transgenic poplar plant comprising any portion of a SEQ ID NO 1 b the full length complement of SEQ ID NO 1 c the reverse full length complement of SEQ ID NO 1 or d the reverse full length sequence of SEQ ID NO 1 and having at least one of multiple stems faster growth higher carbohydrate levels reduced lignin content altered lignin composition and no or delayed flowering.

In another embodiment the present invention comprises a transgenic poplar plant comprising a nucleotide sequence containing a member of the miR156 family. In some embodiments the member of the miR156 family is Cg1. In some embodiments the transgenic poplar plant further comprises having at least one of multiple stems faster growth higher carbohydrate levels reduced lignin content altered lignin composition and no or delayed flowering.

In one example the Cg1 gene was inserted under the control of the constitutive cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter into hybrid aspen genotype INRA 717 1B4 . As shown herein the insertion of the Cg1 gene into hybrid poplar affects the fate of terminal meristems resulting in plants with multiple stems that do not produce flowers. Over expression of Cg1 results in poplars with lower levels of lignin than the corresponding non transgenic control plants.

Transgenic poplar plants were engineered as follows. A 0.6 Kb DNA fragment containing the Cg1 transcript GenBank Accession EF541486 and SEQ ID NO 1 was cloned into the binary plasmid pK2GW7 Karimi M Inze D Depicker A. GATEWAY vectors for mediated plant transformation. Trends Plant Sci 2002 7 193 5 the contents of which are incorporated herein in their entirety by recombinase mediated integration using LR clonase Invitrogen positioning the Cg1 transcript downstream from the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter and upstream of a 35S terminator.

The sequences of primers used to clone the Cg1 gene into pK2GW7 vector are Cg1 648F 5 gccggaaacaagctaagacagatgggct SEQ iD NO 2 and Cg1 64 R 5 ctgcctcgtcaatagctgcagtatttgc SEQ ID NO 3 . Primer Cg1 648 F is the reverse primer and primer Cg1 64 R is the forward primer relative to the sequence shown in GenBank accession EF541486. Cg1 648 F starts at nucleotide position 693 and ends at position 666 of the GenBank sequence. Cg1 64 R starts at nucleotide position 74 and ends at position 101 of the GenBank sequence. Thus the PCR primers create a DNA fragment comprising nucleotides 74 693 of the Cg1 gene shown at GenBank Accession EF541486 and SEQ ID NO 1.

The pK2GW7 vector containing the Cg1 DNA fragment was transformed into strain GV3101 by electroporation and transformed cells were selected on solid Luria Bertani LB media containing 100 mg ml spectinomycin 50 mg ml rifampicin and 50 mg ml gentamycin. Colonies of transformed were screened by colony polymerase chain reaction PCR for the presence of the Cg1 sequence. PCR confirmed colonies were grown in liquid medium for 24 hours and cryo preserved by addition of 25 glycerol vol vol to cultures followed by storage at 80 C.

One of the PCR confirmed colonies designated pGC5.4.9 6 2 was grown for 24 hours in 50 ml of liquid LB medium supplemented with 100 mg ml spectinomycin 50 mg ml rifampicin and 50 mg ml gentamycin. Poplar genotype INRA 717 1B4 leaf and stem explants were co cultivated with this culture and whole transgenic plants were produced in vitro via organogenesis as described previously Meilan R Ma C. Poplar spp. . In Wang K. ed. Protocols. Totowa N.J. Humana Press 2006 143 51 the contents of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety . A total of five co cultivations of INRA 717 1B4 with strain pGC5.4.9 6 2 were performed each using leaf and stem explants from 25 sterile in vitro plant propagules of approx. 9 cm in height. From these co cultivations 1 357 explants were obtained and from these 29 independent kanamycin resistant rooted lines unique transformational events were produced. All of the transformed plants originated from the single bacterial cell pGC5.4.9 6 2 as noted above. The lines comprise unique transformational events because each of the 29 lines originated from a single plant co cultivated with pGC5.4.9 6 2. Transgenic lines were confirmed by PCR amplification of Cg1 from genomic DNA extracted from leaves of the in vitro grown kanamycin resistant rooted plants.

The presence of the transgene was verified via standard PCR. A northern blot showed that the Cg1 message was processed to produce a mature miRNA as shown in . Expression of MIR168 was used as a loading control. As can be seen in the wild type poplar WT 717 and the Cg1 10 transgenic line do not have the MIR156 message nor do the maize corn samples. The WT 717 and Cg1 10 samples serve as controls. Cg1 10 is a transgenic line that does not express the Cg1 gene. However poplar transgenic lines Cg1 28 Cg1 29 Cg1 31 and Cg1 165 exhibit the presence of mature Cg1 miRNA.

As described above the transformed Cg1 construct was introduced into the poplar hybrid aspen genotype INRA 717 1B4 under control of the constitutive 35S promoter to create a gene construct in which the Cg1 gene inserted is constitutively expressed in the transgenic poplar. These lines are referred to as the 35S Cg1 lines. As seen in the 35S Cg1 poplar lines exhibited phenotypes including enlarged darkened stipules and an increase in the number of branches sylleptic shoots and leaves. The number of nodes remained unchanged in many of the transgenic lines.

In the examples shown herein the relative amount of syringyl S as compared to guaiacyl G the S G ratio does not seem to be significantly changed from the wild type control or is decreased in comparison to the wild type control. However in other embodiments of the present invention miRNA transgenic plants are produced having increased S in the lignin relative to the amount of G. In some embodiments the total amount of lignin is decreased and the lignin contains an increased S G ratio as compared to wild type plants. In some embodiments the total amount of lignin is decreased and the lignin contains a decreased S G ratio as compared to wild type plants.

It is thought that one target of Cg1 could be genes containing the highly conserved SBP box. SBP refers to the SQUAMOSA PROMOTER BINDING PROTEIN SBP box family of transcription factors and is a highly conserved DNA binding domain. Currently it is known that there are at least 14 genes in poplar that contain SBP boxes.

Poplars expressing Cg1 may have commercial value as a cellulosic feedstock for biofuel production and in the paper making industry. As noted above Cg1 which is a member of the miR156 family contains tandem miR156 genes. Over expression of Cg1 in poplar leads to reduced lignin levels. The tandem miR156 genes appear to target genes containing the highly conserved SBP box. It has yet to be determined whether miR156 directly regulates lignin biosynthesis. It is possible that the observed reduction in lignin content was an indirect consequence of the developmental changes caused by Cg1 over expression.

Although this description mainly refers to using embodiments of the invention in conjunction with the Cg1 gene it should be appreciated that these embodiments may be used to insert other miRNAs into poplar for modulating or altering lignin content or composition.

miRNA over expression offers a novel approach to altering lignin content or composition in poplar. Other traits regulated by miRNAs are commercially useful too. Multiple stems are desirable due to ease of harvesting and the equipment needs of growers. Rapid growth provides increased biomass yield. Better rooting provides improved establishment rates. Higher sugar levels and control of flowering are also commercially attractive traits. Further embodiments of the invention can be used to insert other miRNAs into poplar for achieving traits other than alteration of lignin content or composition.

Specific embodiments of the invention are described herein. Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention set forth herein will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which the invention pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments and combinations of embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

