---

title: Electronic quotes and proposals including item feedback
abstract: A system includes a proposal engine configured to present quotes and/or proposals including a plurality of selections to customers at a network site.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09367868&OS=09367868&RS=09367868
owner: QUOSAL, LLC
number: 09367868
owner_city: Bothell
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20120630
---
This application is a Continuation in Part CIP of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 13 104 636 invented by Kent S. McNall and Samuel G. Demulling entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR AUTOMATED PREPARATION OF QUOTES AND PROPOSALS filed May 10 2011 copending herewith at the time of filing and to the extent not inconsistent with the disclosure herein incorporated by reference which claims priority benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 333 171 invented by Kent S. McNall and Samuel G. Demulling entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR AUTOMATED PREPARATION OF QUOTES AND PROPOSALS filed May 10 2010 which was co pending at the date of filing and which to the extent not inconsistent with the disclosure herein is incorporated by reference.

Historically the preparation of quotes and proposals for customers or potential customers has been laborious. Automation has not been applied to the preparation of quotes and proposals wherein a user may produce an electronic quotation and or proposal for review and acceptance or modification by a customer or potential customer.

Moreover it has been found that customer acceptance has been relatively low with respect to viewing quotes and proposals at a network site. Unlike an electronic shopping cart a quote or proposal is typically prepared for an individual person or company and the contents of the quote or proposal are typically private. To maintain privacy it would have been previously necessary to require the customer to log into the network site in order to avoid indexing and subsequent access by web search engines. Customers and potential customers have been found to be resistant to presenting login credentials such as a username and password.

Moreover even with the use of applications such as word processors or presentation software it has not been possible for a non sophisticated user to easily design and or select proposal content and or branding of the proposal for a customer.

What is needed is a system and method that can automate preparation of a proposal make it easy for a non sophisticated user to select branding and content of a proposal confidentially present a proposal on a network such as the Internet in a way that does not require a customer to present login credentials and provide controls for receiving feedback modification and or acceptance of the proposal by the customer.

According to an embodiment a system for providing automated quotes and proposals includes at least one server computer including a network communication interface configured for communication with other computers including a client computer across a communication network a web server operatively coupled to the at least one server computer and configured to interface with a client software application running on the client computer and a proposal engine operatively coupled to the web server and the client software application or included in the client software application. The system may be configured to receive selections of a plurality of items corresponding to a proposal from a user via a user interface and cause display of the proposal including the selected items for viewing at a network address.

According to an embodiment a method for providing a quote or proposal to a customer includes receiving from a user via a network interface from a client software application or via a user interface a selection of a plurality of items for a proposal to a customer and causing a display of the proposal including the selection of proposed items at a network address.

According to an embodiment a computer readable medium carries computer executable instructions configured to cause a computer to execute steps for providing a quote or proposal to a customer. The steps include receiving from a user via a network interface from a client software application or via a user interface a selection of a plurality of items for a proposal to a customer and causing a display of the proposal including the selection of proposed items at a network address.

According to an embodiment a method for preparing an automated quote or proposal includes receiving from a user via a user interface into a client software application a selection of items for a proposal to a customer transmitting from the client software application via a network interface to a server the selection of items wherein the proposal including the selection of items will be subsequently viewable at a network address and causing the network address to be provided to or made accessible to a customer device for subsequent viewing.

According to an embodiment a computer readable medium may carry computer executable instructions configured to cause a computer to execute steps for preparing an automated quote or proposal. The steps may include receiving from a user via a user interface into a client software application a selection of items for a proposal to a customer transmitting from the client software application via a network interface to a server the selection of items wherein the proposal including the selection of items will be subsequently viewable at a network address and causing the network address to be provided to or made accessible to a customer computer for subsequent viewing.

According to an embodiment a method for displaying an electronic quote or proposal and receiving a customer response to the electronic quote or proposal may include displaying at a particular network address for viewing by a particular customer a quote or proposal including a plurality of proposed items and a corresponding plurality of graphical customer interface objects for receiving one or more responses from a customer. One or more responses may be received from the customer using at least one of the graphical customer interface objects. Without intervention by a user the quote or proposal may be modified responsive to the received one or more responses and the modified quote or proposal may be displayed to the customer.

According to an embodiment a non transitory computer readable medium may carry computer executable instructions for displaying an electronic quote or proposal and receiving a customer response to the electronic quote or proposal. The computer executable instructions may cause a computer to display at a particular network address for viewing by a particular customer a quote or proposal including a plurality of proposed items and a corresponding plurality of graphical customer interface objects for receiving one or more responses from a customer. The computer executable instructions may cause the computer to receive one or more responses from the customer using at least one of the graphical customer interface objects to modify without intervention by a user the quote or proposal responsive to the received one or more customer responses and to display the modified quote or proposal to the customer.

According to an embodiment a method for receiving a customer response to a quote or proposal may include displaying at a particular network address a quote or proposal including one or more graphical customer interface objects for receiving input from a customer receiving input from the customer using at least one of the graphical customer interface objects and reporting to a user a status of the quote or proposal corresponding to the received input from the customer.

According to an embodiment a method for preparing a quote or proposal may include receiving data corresponding to a quote or proposal receiving or determining a user or a user organization corresponding to the person that input the data corresponding to the quote or proposal receiving or determining at least one rule related to content format or price corresponding to the user or user organization and applying the at least one rule to produce a quote or proposal that is compliant with the rule.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here.

According to another embodiment depicted in the proposal engine may be configured to run on the client computer optionally as part of or substantially as the client software application . The embodiment of may for example be most appropriate when the client computer is a conventional desktop or laptop computer having an operating system not shown local storage not shown and computing resources not shown capable of running an application program having the capabilities of the proposal engine . The embodiment of may for example be most appropriate when the client computer is a less capable computer such as a tablet computer or smart phone or when the client computer is capable but has an unsupported operating system not shown . That said computing architectures and capabilities continue to evolve and the architectures in both embodiments and respectively represented in may be substituted for one another as desired by the system architect. As presently practiced at the time of this application both the embodiments and shown respectively in are operated by the applicant. Alternatively another embodiment not shown may include some portions of the proposal engine being resident on the server computer and other portions of the proposal engine being resident on the client computer . For the server based proposal engine architecture shown in the proposal engine may operate on the same server computer as the web server or may alternatively be deployed on a different server computer .

The proposal engine may be configured to cooperate with the client software application to receive selections of items corresponding to a proposal from a user via a user interface generate select or receive at least a portion of a Deep Web network address corresponding to the proposal and cause display of the proposal including the selected items for viewing at the Deep Web network address . Typically the user is a person different than a customer to whom the proposal is intended to be displayed. As will be described in greater detail below with reference to the Deep Web network address may include a first portion that is a surface web address indexed by search engines. Typically the first portion of the Deep Web network address may be represented by a uniform resource locator URL or an Internet protocol IP address. While depict the first portion of the network address within the server computer this is for convenience and ease of understanding. The URL or IP address may not physically reside within the server computer but rather is a construct used by web routers for addressing the server computer . The second portion may typically include a query term that is not indexed by search engines.

Generally speaking the user may operate as a trusted advisor for the customer . For example if the customer needs to purchase a computer system the user may select items such as computing equipment cables a printer software and support services intended to work together to perform the tasks needed by the customer and list the items as line items in the proposal . According to embodiments such goods and services may include a plurality of line items that can be presented to the customer via the proposal for acceptance and or denial by the customer or alternatively for receiving feedback for subsequent modification by the user . Alternatively the user may select items intended to be alternatives for the customer . For example the user may select a laptop computer configuration and a desktop computer configuration as alternative line items for example where cables a printer and support services are included as components of each line item .

Line items may be presented in the proposal in any way the user desires according to the selection of one or more proposal template s . For example the proposal may include radio buttons to allow the customer to select one or the other of the alternatives may include check boxes to select items that are not mutually exclusive or may include write in fields to allow the customer to insert comments or list additional items etc. Items may be presented as photos or sketches in addition to or in alternative to names and or descriptions. The selected items may additionally or alternatively include selected services or selected service providers.

An illustrative example of a quote or proposal as accessed by a customer is shown in . The quote or proposal may include a plurality of line items and corresponding user input objects to allow the user to accept or reject individual line items. A total price may dynamically change responsive to user selection of the items . A link to an external object such as a PDF may be provided for example to maintain a clean look maximize readability and minimize real estate occupied by the proposal . A video object may be embedded in the proposal to provide a personal presentation from the user seller a demonstration of the product or other video information. A photo or image of the customer or a customer logo may be included to personalize the proposal . A customer input field may be included for various purposes such as in the example to receive a customer signature for accepting the proposal . Various other information may include static or dynamic content. The example is shown formatted according to a template that determines the depicted layout of the content.

Optionally a quote or proposal may be designed for review and or approval by a plurality of customers . For example acceptance of the quote or proposal may require acceptance or approval by two or more parties . For instances when the same quote or proposal e.g. at the same Deep Web network address will receive review and input from two or more parties the quote or proposal may include customer input objects for each of the two or more parties .

One aspect that is important to some embodiments is the ability of a user who is not a sophisticated user of presentation software to have complete control over both content e.g. selected items descriptions price and or additional commentary and presentation format e.g. template including design language placement of fields inclusion of customer controls etc. of the quote or proposal. A provider of the proposal engine may for example provide optional design languages elements and controls. Alternatively the user or a third party may provide content or format options for selection by the user . Alternatively a business may provide to its employees who act as users a fixed presentation template and fixed or restricted items for selection.

The template creation and control aspects offered according to embodiments may include aspects not available in pre formatting offered with general purpose software such as word processors spreadsheets and presentation software. Content and format from such general purpose application software may be imported or otherwise established as template or content elements. However template creation and selection used by the proposal engine is specific to quotes and proposals. For example as shown above a text based portion of a template may be based on database elements that provide calculation of a value in a field e.g. a dynamically calculated price that is responsive to customer selection or de selection of individual items . Moreover a given content element may be driven from database stored attributes of the particular customer for whom the quote or proposal is prepared. For example a given customer or customer s employer may have negotiated terms and conditions that are non standard. By identifying the customer the proposal engine may automatically insert terms and conditions content that is specific to the given customer. According to another example a particular customer may have a requirement to present line items in a certain way such as to include the customer part number. According to an embodiment the proposal engine may automatically insert an extra field corresponding to the customer part number in line item listings for quotes or proposals created for that customer. Similarly a given sales person user may have a preference for inserting particular content into his her quotes and proposals such as a personal message for example. By knowing the identity of the user the proposal engine may automatically prompt the user for a personal message and or insert a standard personal message optionally by combining data elements such as a customer name one or more previously inserted messages and or other proposal content. The range of options and capabilities of embodiments may provide a range of capabilities not previously available to users and businesses for presenting web based quotes and proposals to customers.

Other objects may include a control for exporting the quote or proposal to a PDF document an email access icon for generating an email to send a network address for accessing the quote to the customer and a workspace access icon which can pull up a graphical design application or a graphical design engine for designing a new template.

Referring again to the proposal engine may be further configured to provide an item selection interface not shown for receiving the selections of items from the user . Additionally the proposal engine may be configured to provide a template selection interface for receiving layout and design language selections from the user .

Various approaches may be used to provide a network address to the customer where the proposal may be viewed. According to embodiments the network address for viewing may include a network address that requires login and password credentials to access the quote or proposal. However it has been found that customers may be resistant to providing such access credentials. Another approach for providing a non public quote or proposal for viewing by the customer is to display the quote or proposal at a Deep Web network address that does not require login and password credentials. This approach has been found to result in higher rates of access by customers . Generally speaking a Deep Web network address is a network location that cannot be or is impractical to be indexed by web search engines. Since many quotes or proposals include sensitive information and cannot or should not be made available to search engines the use of a Deep Web network address may be a good solution because it may overcome customer resistance to presenting login credentials.

To use a Deep Web network address the Deep Web network address is provided to a customer device which may include a conventional computer or may be a smart phone tablet computer or other network connected device . As long as the customer chooses to keep the Deep Web network address private the proposal may remain private. Alternatively the customer may choose to share the Deep Web network address and the quote or proposal may then be accessed by a larger number and potentially a very large number of viewers. Such additional viewers may also be regarded as customers .

Substantially any method that does not expose the Deep Web network address to indexing by search engines may be used to provide the Deep Web network address to the customer . For example the proposal engine may be configured to transmit the Deep Web network address to the client software application and or may generate the Deep Web network address from within the client software application e.g. when the client software application includes the proposal engine . The proposal engine may additionally or alternatively be configured to cooperate with an email client not shown to transmit the Deep Web network address to the client computer and or to the customer device .

According to an embodiment the client software application which may include the proposal engine as shown in the embodiment of may be configured to transmit at least a portion of the Deep Web network address to the server computer . Alternatively as described above the client software application may additionally or alternatively include a web browser and the proposal engine may be configured to run on the server computer .

The proposal engine may be further configured to receive or generate at least a portion of a customer communication address and transmit the Deep Web network address to the customer communication address. Additionally or alternatively the client software application may be configured to receive a customer communication address and transmit the Deep Web network address to the customer communication address. Optionally the client software application may be configured to cooperate with an email client not shown to receive a customer communication address and transmit the Deep Web network address to the customer communication address. For example the client software application may launch an email application such as a web based email client Microsoft Outlook etc. and pass the customer communication address an email template email content and or the Deep Web network address to the email application. The proposal engine may be configured to generate message content for transmitting the Deep Web network address to a customer communication address. For example the proposal engine may be further configured to launch an email client and pass the message content to the email client.

Optionally the customer communication address may include plural customer communication addresses. The customer device may include a plurality of customer devices and or the customer may include a plurality of customers. One reason for transmitting the Deep Web network address to more than one customer device and or more than one customer may be when a quote or proposal needs to be reviewed by two or more partners who need to reach consensus or majority vote to accept the quote or proposal . Another reason for transmitting the Deep Web network address to more than one customer device and or more than one customer may be when the quote or proposal is prepared for one person but the quote or proposal must also be approved by the manager or supervisor of the person .

According to embodiments the customer communication address may include an email address or a text message address.

Referring again to the server computer network communication interface may be further configured for communication with a customer device across a communication network . The server computer may be further configured to display the proposal including the selections of items to the customer device when the customer device accesses the Deep Web network address . The proposal engine may be further configured to pick a template for displaying the proposal at the Deep Web network address . Accordingly displaying the proposal including the selected items for viewing at the Deep Web network address may include displaying the proposal including the selected items in a format corresponding to the template.

Optionally the web server may be further configured to determine a display characteristic corresponding to a customer device that accesses the Deep Web network address . Picking the template may include picking a template appropriate for the display characteristic. For example if the customer device is a smart phone a template that arranges items and or abbreviates or omits content for viewing on a small display may be selected. A larger template and or more content may alternatively be selected for a customer device that includes a large display screen . Determining a display characteristic may for example include issuing a call to a .net WebRequest.Header property. Optionally the proposal engine may be configured to receive a preferred language of the customer from the client software application and the proposal engine may be further configured to pick the template for displaying the proposal at the Deep Web network address to correspond to the preferred language of the customer .

The proposal engine may be configured to receive a template design or a template selection. Displaying the proposal including the selected items for viewing at the Deep Web network address may include displaying the proposal including the selected items in a format corresponding to the template. For example the proposal engine may be configured to receive the template design or the template selection from the client software application and as described above may in fact comprise a portion of the client software application .

The system may include an administrator computer operatively coupled to the proposal engine . This is shown in as a computer directly coupled to the server computer . Alternatively the administrator computer may be the server computer . In an alternative the administrator computer may be operatively coupled to the proposal engine via the network as shown in . While these respective configurations are shown respectively for server based proposal engine and a client computer based proposal engine the connection to the administrator computer may be interchangeable in either architecture . The proposal engine may be configured to receive the template design or the template selection from the administrator computer .

The selections of items described above may correspond to a plurality of selected items. Displaying the proposal including the selected items for viewing at the Deep Web network address may include displaying a plurality of line items corresponding to the plurality of selected items.

The system may include a database server operatively coupled to the proposal engine and the web server . The database server may be configured to store one or more records including at least a portion of the Deep Web network address and the proposal on a non transitory computer readable medium such as a hard disk or disk array. The database server may be configured to store one or more records including at least a portion of the Deep Web network address the selected items not shown and a template not shown corresponding to a format for displaying the selected items. For example the proposal stored by the database server on the computer readable medium may be configured as a plurality of data fields including at least the selected items and the template.

As described above the client software application may include a browser. The web server may be configured to present a HyperText Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or HTML and XML interface to the browser to convey a graphical user interface from the proposal engine to a user of the client computer and receive the selections of items from the user of the client computer . This arrangement may be best visualized in reference to the system architecture shown in . Alternatively or additionally the client software application may include a graphical user interface GUI module not shown configured to present a GUI to a user of the client computer and receive the input from the user of the client computer . The client software application may also include a data communication module not shown configured to transmit the selections to the proposal engine . This arrangement may be configured as either the system architecture of or the system architecture of .

Optionally the Deep Web network address may include a plurality of Deep Web network addresses. With this arrangement the proposal engine may be configured to cooperate with the client software application to cause a display of different selections of items a display of the same selections of items using different templates or a display of different selections of items using respective different templates at each of the plurality of Deep Web network addresses .

In some embodiments the proposal engine may be configured to generate the proposal from the selected items and a proposal template substantially when a customer accesses the Deep Web network address . In other embodiments the proposal engine may be configured to generate the proposal from the selected items and a proposal template prior to when a customer accesses the Deep Web network address .

As described above various media may be used to convey a Deep Web network address to the customer . Conveying the Deep Web network address in an email message has been found to be an effective medium. Accordingly the system of may include an email server not shown operatively coupled to the proposal engine . The proposal engine may be configured to pick an email template and cooperate with the email server not shown to prepare an email including the Deep Web network address and formatted according to the email template for transmission to a customer communication address.

Referencing the Deep Web network address may include a first portion that is indexed by and or linked from a surface web location accessible by conventional web search engines and a second portion that is unpredictable and sufficiently long to substantially prevent systematic search. The Deep Web network address may thus be non indexed and non linked. The Deep Web network address may be uncrawlable. According to an embodiment the Deep Web network address does not require registration or login. In an alternative embodiment the Deep Web network address may be a contextual address such as an address configured to be accessible to query by devices having a predetermined URL access history. The Deep Web network address may be generated by a JavaScript or other randomizing or pseudo randomizing application. According to an embodiment implemented by the applicant the Deep Web network address may include a Uniform Resource Identifier URI including a URL that is indexed and associated with the URL a non indexed query including a passcode that is generated by a random number or pseudo random number generator and which provides a path to the proposal .

The web server may be configured to display the proposal as a web page at the Deep Web network address . The proposal engine may be configured to cause the proposal to be displayed using a template that includes a graphical user interface GUI configured to receive input from a customer when the proposal is accessed at the Deep Web network address . The web server and the proposal server may be further configured to receive customer input including one or more requests selections acceptances or purchases from the customer via the GUI at the Deep Web network address . The web server may be configured to cooperate with the proposal engine and the client software application to provide to the user the one or more or a summary of one or more of the requests selections acceptances or purchases received from the customer via the GUI at the Deep Web network address .

Optionally the proposal engine may be configured to modify one or more of the selections of items the template or a price displayed at the Deep Web network address responsive to the input from the customer . The proposal engine may be configured to display an input interface not shown associated with or linked from the Deep Web network address for receiving input from the customer responsive to the proposal displayed at the Deep Web network address . For example when a proposal does not include objects for customer input or in addition to such objects for customer input an input interface may be provided by the proposal engine .

The system may be configured to cooperate with other resources such as electronic shopping carts enterprise resource planning ERP software scheduling software inventory management software order processing software order fulfillment software salesforce management software etc. to manage and fulfill accepted proposals. Alternatively the system may include such resources.

For example the system may further include an order processing server or module not shown operatively coupled to the proposal engine . The order processing server or module not shown may be configured to process an order received from the customer via one or more input objects displayed at the Deep Web network address or linked from the Deep Web network address . Optionally the order processing server or module not shown may be configured to receive an order transmitted from the proposal engine or the database server or the order processing server or module not shown may be configured to receive the Deep Web network address and cooperate with the database server to process an order by reading the non transitory computer readable media .

According to another example the system may also include an electronic shopping cart not shown wherein the customer and or the user may process an order and or payment for selected items for purchase. Optionally the electronic shopping cart not shown may be configured to receive an order transmitted from the proposal engine or the database server or the electronic shopping cart not shown may be configured to receive the Deep Web network address and cooperate with the database server to generate an order by reading the non transitory computer readable media .

According to another example the system may further include a fulfillment server not shown operatively coupled to the proposal engine . The fulfillment server not shown may be configured to cooperate with the proposal engine to transmit or display one or more items in a pick list not shown to fulfill an order received from the customer responsive to the proposal . Optionally the fulfillment server not shown may be configured to receive a pick list transmitted from the proposal engine or the database server or the fulfillment server not shown may be configured to receive the Deep Web network address and cooperate with the database server to generate a pick list by reading the non transitory computer readable media .

The web server client software application proposal engine database server as well as the order processing server not shown and fulfillment server not shown may each be embodied as software programs or modules comprised of computer executable commands stored on non transitory computer readable media . The client software application optionally including the proposal engine may exist on a computer readable medium on the server computer prior to download to the client computer . Alternatively the client software application may be delivered to the client computer as one or more optical disks solid state memory or the like that may be loaded onto the client computer by the user or an administrator or technician not shown . After loading client software application optionally including the proposal engine may then be embodied as computer executable commands stored on non transitory computer readable media within or operatively coupled to the client computer .

Some of the functionality described herein refers to transmitting or receiving a Deep Web network address. Transmitting or receiving a portion of the Deep Web network address may be considered equivalent to transmitting or receiving the entire Deep Web network address. For example for operatively coupled processes that reside within the web server it may be unnecessary to specify the URL of the server. Instead only all or a portion of the passcode may be transmitted or received because the URL is implied or not accessed.

Beginning at step the server computer process displays a proposal entry interface on the client computer or device process . Proceeding to step the client software application receives selections from the user. The selections received in step may include selections of items selection or design of a template or template elements and optionally selection of other content for the proposal. Once a user is satisfied with the proposal the method may proceed to step where a publish command is received from the user.

Upon receipt of the publish command the process proceeds to step which may occur in the server computer process . In step the server computer and the proposal engine see receive the item selections template s or template designation s and optionally additional content. The process then proceeds to step wherein the proposal engine picks the template corresponding to user selection s and populates the template s with the selected items and optionally with the additional content. Step may be completely responsive to user selections received in step or may also be responsive to selections made by a system administrator company management of the user or another party. For example the user may provide preferences for how the proposal should be presented and the proposal engine may perform step based at least in part on the user preferences.

The process then proceeds to step which need not occur after step where a network address or a portion of the network address for display of the proposal is generated. For example the network address may be a Deep Web network address as described above. Optionally the network address may be a surface web network address and step may also include receiving selecting or generating a user login and password. Proceeding to step the server computer process may transmit the address generated in step and or the user login and password to the client device process which receives the network address in step . For example step may include launching an email application passing the network address and customer communication address to the email application and optionally passing an email template which may correspond to the proposal template to the email application. Step may include opening an email client and receiving the formatted email message including the network address. As described above the customer communication address may include a plurality of customer communication addresses and optionally multiple communication modalities and the network address may include a plurality of network addresses.

Proceeding to step the client computer process may receive a command from the user to transmit notification of the proposal availability to a customer computer and a client software application may execute the command. Proceeding to step which occurs on the customer computer or other customer device as a customer computer process the customer may access the proposal at the specified network address. Responsive to access by the customer the process on the server computer proceeds to step wherein the quote or proposal is displayed on the customer device. Step may also include receiving input from the customer process .

According to an embodiment step may include dynamically generating new web page content responsive to input from the customer process . For example as described above a customer may select or deselect line items in a proposal and the total price may be dynamically recalculated and displayed on the proposal. Additionally or alternatively the web page corresponding to the proposal may include a plurality of dynamically selected static web pages. For example the proposal may be stored to include versions corresponding to substantially all or the most probable user selections. The user input may thus be used to call an alternative static version of the proposal rather than driving a dynamic change in the proposal.

After receipt of the customer input the process portion may proceed to another step not shown wherein the user input or a summary of user input is transmitted to the client computer process for display to the user. The process may optionally loop back to step and proceed to allow the user to modify the proposal responsive to the user input.

Beginning at step the client computer process displays a proposal entry interface on the client computer or device. Proceeding to step the client software application receives selections from the user. The selections received in step may include selections of items selection or design of a template or template elements and optionally selection of other content for the proposal. Once a user is satisfied with the proposal the method may proceed to step where a publish command is received from the user.

Upon receipt of the publish command the process proceeds to step . In step the proposal engine see picks the template corresponding to user selection s and populates the template s with the selected items and optionally with the additional content. Step may be completely responsive to user selections received in step or may also be responsive to selections made by a system administrator company management of the user or another party. For example the user may provide preferences for how the proposal should be presented and the proposal engine may perform step based at least in part on the user preferences.

The process then proceeds to step which need not occur after step where a network address or a portion of the network address for display of the proposal is generated. For example the network address may be a Deep Web network address as described above. Optionally the network address may be a surface web network address and step may also include receiving selecting or generating a user login and password.

Proceeding to step the client process transmits the proposal and the network address to a server process that operates on the server computer see . For example the proposal may be transmitted as a formatted proposal the proposal may be transmitted as data corresponding to the collection of items template and optional additional content received in step or the proposal may be transmitted as a display list corresponding to the formatted proposal.

Following step the process portion may proceed to step wherein the client computer process may receive a command from the user or may automatically execute a command to transmit notification of the proposal availability to a customer computer . For example step may include launching an email application passing the network address and customer communication address to the email application and optionally passing an email template which may correspond to the proposal template to the email application. Step may include opening an email client and receiving the formatted email message including the network address. As described above the customer communication address may include a plurality of customer communication addresses and optionally multiple communication modalities and the network address may include a plurality of network addresses.

Also responsive to step the server computer process receives the proposal and the network address from the client process .

Proceeding to step which occurs on the customer computer or other customer device as a customer computer process the customer may access the proposal at the specified network address received after the notification transmission in step .

Responsive to access by the customer the process on the server computer proceeds to step wherein the quote or proposal is displayed on the customer device. Step may also include receiving input from the customer process . After receipt of the customer input the process portion may proceed to another step not shown wherein the user input or a summary of user input is transmitted to the client computer process for display to the user. The process may optionally loop back to step and proceed to allow the user to modify the proposal responsive to the user input.

Beginning at step a proposal entry interface may be output. Ultimately the proposal entry interface e.g. see the proposal entry interface shown in is presented to a user who may act as a trusted advisor for a customer. Providing the proposal entry interface may include providing a GUI including an item list template and item selection objects accessing a database to retrieve at least item identifiers and populating the item list template with at least the item identifiers. The proposal engine may be configured to receive the selection of items responsive to actuation of the item selection objects by the user.

For example in the architecture of the client software application may include a browser. Step may include presenting a HTML XML or HTML and XML interface to the browser to convey a graphical user interface from the proposal engine to a user of the client computer and receive the selections of items from the user of the client computer.

Outputting the proposal entry interface in step may include providing a GUI including an item list template and item selection objects. Optionally a client software application if separate from the proposal engine may configured to access a database and populate the item list template with at least item identifiers. Optionally the client software application may include a browser and providing the proposal entry interface may include providing one or more web pages including at least item identifiers and item selection objects to the browser.

Optionally providing a proposal entry interface may include transmitting a template design utility to the client software application or outputting a template design utility to the user.

Proceeding to step proposal selections are received from the user. The proposal selections may include selection s of one or more items selection s of one or more templates and selection s or entry of content for the proposal. For the system architecture of the selection s may be received into the proposal engine via a network interface from a client software application . For the system architecture of the selection s may be received via a user interface into the proposal engine .

Receiving the selections of items in step may include receiving a plurality of item selections. The selected items may include selected services or selected service providers. Alternatively or additionally the selected items may include selected goods intended to work together as a system or to be selected by a customer as alternatives to one another.

Proceeding to optional step a command to publish may be received. For the system architecture of the command to publish may be received into the proposal engine via a network interface from a client software application . For the system architecture of the command to publish may be received via a user interface into the proposal engine .

Optionally receiving the command to publish the proposal may be inherent in the selection of the items for the proposal and may not involve receiving an explicit command.

Proceeding to step a network address for display of the proposal may be received selected or generated. For example the network address may include a Deep Web network address. Optionally the network address may include a plurality of network addresses.

Receiving selecting or generating a Deep Web network address may include receiving the Deep Web network address from another application or generating the Deep Web network address within the proposal engine. Optionally the Deep Web network address may be selected from a list of possible Deep Web network addresses which may include all possible Deep Web network addresses or a small subset of possible Deep Web network addresses.

The Deep Web network address may include a first portion that is indexed by and or linked from a surface web location accessible by conventional web search engines and a second portion that is unpredictable and sufficiently long to substantially prevent systematic search. As described above it has been found that presenting the proposal at a Deep Web network address provides acceptable privacy and also may overcome customer resistance to logging in by presenting credentials to the web server. The Deep Web network address may be a Deep Web network address that does not require registration or login.

Typically the Deep Web network address is non indexed and non linked. The Deep Web network address may be substantially uncrawlable. According to one approach the Deep Web network address may be a contextual address. The Deep Web network address may be generated by a JavaScript or other randomizing or pseudo randomizing application.

According to an embodiment the Deep Web network address may include a URI including a URL that may be indexed and associated with the URL a non indexed query including a passcode that is generated by a random number or pseudo random number generator and which provides a path to the proposal.

Proceeding to step one or more template s may be picked for the presentation. Typically the one or more template s may be picked responsive to the selection s received in step .

Optionally the process may include determining a display characteristic corresponding to a customer device that accesses or might access the Deep Web network address not shown . Picking a template for the proposal may include picking a template appropriate for the display characteristic. Optionally determining a display characteristic may include issuing a call to obtain a .net WebRequest.Header property when the customer accesses the network address.

Optionally the process may include receiving a preferred language of the customer from the client software application not shown . Picking a template for the proposal in step may include picking a template corresponding to the preferred language of the customer.

The process may next proceed to step wherein a customer notification may be generated. Generating the customer notification may include causing a Deep Web network address to be provided to a customer communication address to enable subsequent access to the proposal by the customer. For the system architecture of step may include transmitting the Deep Web network address or a portion of the Deep Web network address to the client software application. The customer notification generation may include transmitting the network address to the client software application in the client computer and or cooperating with an email client or server to generate a message for transmission to the client computer for subsequent transmission to the customer device at the customer communication address . Optionally the process may generate the customer notification for direct transmission from the proposal engine to the customer device at the customer communication address. For the system architecture of the customer notification generation may include generating an email text or other message for transmission to the customer communication address described above.

Step may include receiving or looking up at least a portion of a customer communication address and transmitting the Deep Web network address to the customer communication address. The customer communication address may for example include an email address or a text message address.

Step may include picking an email template and preparing an email message including the network address formatted according to the email template for transmission to the customer communication address. Alternatively step may include receiving an email template or a selection of an email template from the client software application or from a user interface. For the system architecture of step may include transmitting to the client software application at least a partially composed email message formatted according to the email template and including the network address for subsequent transmission to a customer. For the system architecture of step may include presenting to the user at least a partially composed email message formatted according to the email template and including the network address for transmission to the customer.

Next step includes causing a display of the proposal including the selection of proposed items at the network address. Causing the display of the proposal may include displaying the proposal as a web page at the Deep Web network address.

Causing the display of the proposal may include executing one or more steps optionally in cooperation with the web server and or the database server to display the proposal at the network address. Step need not require actions by a customer to be executed. For example processing the proposal or proposal elements with a database server such that the proposal could be accessed by the customer can be considered causing the display of the proposal. Causing a display of the proposal may include displaying the proposal at the Deep Web network address.

Causing the proposal to be displayed may include causing a plurality of line items corresponding to a plurality of item selections to be displayed. Optionally causing a display of the proposal including the selection of proposed items may include causing a display of different selections of items a display of the same selections of items using different templates or a display of different selections of items using respective different templates at each of a plurality of network addresses.

Causing display of the proposal in step may include generating the proposal including the selected items substantially when a customer accesses the network address. Alternatively causing display of the proposal may include generating the proposal including the selected items prior to when the customer accesses the network address.

Optionally the method may include storing one or more records including the Deep Web network address and the proposal in a database not shown . The method may further include storing the Deep Web network address the selected items and a template in a database not shown . Causing display of the proposal may include retrieving the proposal and or the selected items and template from the database and causing display as a web page.

Optionally causing the display of the proposal at the network address may be performed responsive to receiving the command to publish in step .

According to some embodiments causing the display of the proposal may include causing the proposal to be displayed using a template that may include a GUI configured to receive input from a customer when the proposal is accessed at the Deep Web network address. Optionally customer input may be enabled by displaying an input interface associated with or linked from the network address. This approach may allow the proposal itself not to include a capability of receiving customer input while still preserving the functionality of receiving input from the customer responsive to the proposal being displayed at the Deep Web network address.

The process may further include a step not shown of receiving input from the customer including one or more requests selections acceptances or purchases via the GUI at the network address or the linked input interface. The proposal engine may then provide to the user or cooperate with the client software application to provide to the user the one or more requests selections acceptances or purchases received from the customer or a summary of one or more of the requests selections acceptances or purchases received from the customer via the GUI at the network address or the linked input interface.

Optionally the method may include not shown modifying one or more of the selections of items the template or a price displayed at the network address responsive to the input from the customer.

Optionally the process may include storing one or more template designs not shown . Step may include receiving at template selection from a client software application or the user and picking the template in step may include picking a stored template design responsive at least in part to the template selection. Optionally the process may include receiving one or more template designs from an administrator computer not shown .

Optionally the process may include the step not shown of processing an order received from a customer via one or more input objects displayed at the network address or linked from the Deep Web network address.

Optionally the process may include the step not shown of operating an electronic shopping cart to receive orders from a customer.

Optionally the process may include the step not shown of transmitting or displaying one or more items in a pick list to fulfill an order received from a customer responsive to the proposal.

Generally speaking the steps included in the process may be executed using one or more client software applications by the client computer responsive to input from the user .

According to embodiments the client software application may include a web browser configured to display HTML and or XML objects transmitted from the proposal engine in cooperation with a web server . Optionally the client software application may include a batch or off line capable application wherein user input may be received when the customer computer is not in communication with the server computer.

The process may start at step wherein a proposal entry interface may be received via a client network interface.

The process next proceeds to step wherein a selection of items for proposal to the customer may be received from the user via the user interface into the client software application. The proposal may include a quotation of a price for providing the selected items. Step may thus include receiving one or more prices for the selected items. According to embodiments the items may include goods services or goods and services.

Receiving the selection of items in step may include receiving at least two line items wherein the proposal including the at least two line items will be subsequently viewable at the network address.

The process may next proceed to step wherein the client software application may receive a selection of terms and conditions from the user via the client computer user interface. Optionally the terms and conditions may include at least one price.

Proceeding to step the client software application may receive from the user via the client computer user interface a selection of branding and or other content for inclusion in the quote or proposal. For example branding may be selected by selecting or generating a template for the proposal. Selecting a template may include selecting a default proposal template. Selecting a template may include designing a template selecting a pre determined template and or modifying a pre determined template. Selecting a template may include selecting a template identity ID rather than selecting a template itself.

Proceeding to step the client software application may cause a network address to be selected or generated. This may include generating selecting or receiving with the client software application a Deep Web network address for displaying the proposal. Generating selecting or receiving the Deep Web network address may include generating the Deep Web network address with the client software application. Optionally step may include generating a portion of the Deep Web network address with the client software application. Optionally step may include transmitting a command or request to the proposal engine to select or generate the Deep Web network address. Generating selecting or receiving the Deep Web network address in step may include receiving the Deep Web network address from the proposal engine. Generating selecting or receiving with the client software application a Deep Web network address for displaying the proposal may further include issuing a command or request to the proposal engine to generate at least a passcode portion of the Deep Web network address. Optionally the client application may never receive the Deep Web network address. Alternatively step may include receiving at least the passcode portion of the Deep Web network address from the proposal engine.

As described elsewhere herein a Deep Web network address may include a first portion that is indexed by and or linked from a surface web location accessible by conventional web search engines and a second portion that is unpredictable and sufficiently long to substantially prevent systematic search. The Deep Web network address may be non indexed and non linked. The Deep Web network address may be uncrawlable. In some embodiments the Deep Web network address does not require registration or login. In other applications the Deep Web network address may be an address that requires login such as by presenting a username and or a password. The Deep Web network address may be a contextual address. The Deep Web network address may be generated by a JavaScript or other randomizing or pseudo randomizing application.

The Deep Web network address may include a URI including a URL that is indexed and associated with the URL a non indexed query including a passcode that is generated by a random number or pseudo random number generator and which provides a path to the proposal.

Optionally step may be included in transmitting the selection of items in step and or in other steps of the method .

Proceeding to step the client software application may receive from the user via the client computer user interface a command to publish. The command to publish may include an explicit actuation of a GUI object by a user. Alternatively the command to publish may be implicit in the selection of items in step in other selections e.g. selections received in steps or in the act of causing a network address to be generated or selected in step .

Proceeding to step the client software application may transmit the selections received in steps and and optionally a network address if generated in the client software application to the proposal engine via the client computer network interface. Step may be viewed as causing the proposal to be viewable at the network address which may be a Deep Web network address. Optionally step may include transmitting data a request or a command to the server to display the proposal as a web page at the Deep Web network address. Alternatively the data request or command may be implied.

Transmitting a selected proposal template may consist essentially of or include transmitting an identity of the selected proposal template.

As described above the proposal may use a template that includes a GUI configured to receive input from the customer when the proposal is accessed at the Deep Web network address. Accordingly step may include transmitting data a request or a command to the server to display the proposal using a template that includes a GUI configured to receive input from the customer when the proposal is accessed at the Deep Web network address.

In step the client software application may cause the network address to be provided or made accessible to the customer computer. Providing the network address to the customer computer may allow the customer to view the proposal at the network address. As described elsewhere the network address may be a Deep Web network address. Optionally causing the Deep Web network address to be provided to the customer device for subsequent viewing may include displaying a GUI network address access object at a location accessible to the customer device.

Step may include receiving from the user via the user interface into the client software application a command to provide the Deep Web network address to the customer device. Causing the Deep Web network address to be provided to the customer device for subsequent viewing may be included in receiving from the user via the user interface into the client software application a command to publish the proposal in step .

Optionally the Deep Web network address may be transmitted to the customer device from the client software application or from an email application running on a client device on which the client software application is also running. Accordingly causing the Deep Web network address to be provided to the customer device for subsequent viewing may include causing an email message including the Deep Web network address to be transmitted to the customer device. Optionally the email message may be transmitted from a location other than the client computer such as from the server computer for example. Optionally the email message may include branding defined by an email template.

In step the client software application may receive one or more notifications via the client computer network interface of input from the customer responsive to the customer viewing the proposal at the network address. For example the notifications may include a change request one or more selections a question acceptance of the proposal an order responsive to the proposal and or a purchase entered via the GUI. The client software application may then provide to the user via the user interface the one or more requests selections acceptances purchases etc. received from the customer or a summary of one or more of the requests selections acceptances or purchases etc. received from the customer and entered via the GUI at the Deep Web network address.

Optionally the process may loop back to any of the steps of to allow the user to make changes in the proposal responsive to customer feedback. This may result in modifying one or more of the selections of items the template or a price displayed at the Deep Web network address responsive to input from the user. Modifying the proposal may include receiving a selection or approval of the at least one change via the user interface transmitting at least the change to the server and causing a notification of the changed proposal to be provided to a customer device for subsequent viewing at the Deep Web network address.

Optionally a user may select a proposal template that allows the proposal engine to perform the modification of one or more of the selections of items the template or a price displayed at the Deep Web network address responsive to input from the customer. Optionally the client application may be configured to automatically make such modifications.

While the process is described above as resulting in the display of a proposal at the network address it may actually result in the display of two or more proposals. For example receiving the selection of items in step and transmitting the selection of items from the client software application to the proposal engine in step may include respectively receiving and transmitting two or more selections of items. The selections of items and or selections of branding content or other aspects may be assigned to respective two or more proposals. The two or more proposals including the respective selections of items may then be subsequently viewable at two or more respective network addresses such as two or more respective Deep Web network addresses.

Optionally each of the processes illustrated in may include automated item selection price selection format template selection and or content selection corresponding to one or more individual identities. Such a method may allow preparation of a personalized quote or proposal. This may for example include receiving from a user a selection of items for a quote or proposal for a customer determining at least one of a customer identity or the user identity selecting at least a content element or a template element for the proposal responsive to one or more of the customer identity and user identity and displaying the proposal including the selected content element the selected template element or the selected content and selected template elements. According to embodiments the proposal engine may provide this functionality or may cooperate with other elements shown or described in conjunction with to provide the functionality.

According to another embodiment any of the methods of may include receiving selecting or generating a network address for displaying a quote or proposal to a selected customer receiving or determining a customer identity corresponding to customer communication address to which the network address is transmitted and displaying the quote or proposal including at least one item price content element or format element that is selected responsive to the customer identity. The customer identity may include data that corresponds to a known customer name. Alternatively the customer identity may not include information that can be correlated to an unencrypted customer name. This can preserve anonymity while still providing a personalized experience for the customer. According to embodiments the proposal engine may provide this functionality or may cooperate with other elements shown or described in conjunction with to provide the functionality.

According to embodiments any of the methods of may include displaying at a particular network address a quote or proposal including one or more graphical customer interface objects for receiving input from a customer receiving input from the customer using at least one of the graphical customer interface objects and reporting to a user a status of the quote or proposal corresponding to the received input from the customer. According to embodiments the proposal engine may provide this functionality or may cooperate with other elements shown or described in conjunction with to provide the functionality.

The user or a user organization may have significant control over quotes or proposals that may be presented to customers. For example any of the methods illustrated by may include receiving data corresponding to a quote or proposal determining a user or a user organization corresponding to the person that inputs the data corresponding to the quote or proposal determining at least one rule related to content format or price corresponding to the user or user organization and applying the at least one rule to produce a quote or proposal that is compliant with the rule. Similarly customers or customer organizations may exercise at least some control over quotes and proposals that are received. For example any of the methods illustrated by may include receiving data corresponding to a quote or proposal determining a customer or customer organization corresponding to a person or organization for whom the quote or proposal was prepared determining at least one rule related to content format or price corresponding to the customer or customer organization and applying the at least one rule to produce a quote or proposal that is compliant with the rule. According to embodiments the proposal engine may provide this functionality or may cooperate with other elements shown or described in conjunction with to apply the rules as indicated above.

For example the client application may include a proposal engine. The selection of the plurality of items may be received from the user via the user interface. Alternatively the client application may include a browser or application configured to interface with a server based proposal engine. Receiving the selection of the plurality of items may include receiving a plurality of selections from the client application by the server based proposal engine via the network interface.

Proceeding to step a particular network address for viewing the quote or proposal may be transmitted to the customer. Generally quote or proposal may be intended for viewing by a particular customer and may include items selected for the particular customer by the user. In this way the user may act as a trusted advisor. Accordingly the quote or proposal is not a general purpose web page for selling products to any party that may access the web page. To the contrary the items proposed in the quote or proposal are typically selected according to the needs of the particular customer for which the quote or proposal is intended. The quote or proposal may be confidential. Confidentiality may be substantially maintained by displaying the quote or proposal at a Deep Web network address that is uncrawlable and hence not searchable by conventional web search engines.

In step the quote or proposal may be displayed at a particular network address for viewing by a particular customer. For example displaying the quote or proposal may include generating the electronic quote or proposal from previous user input substantially when the customer accesses the network address. The quote or proposal may include a plurality of proposed items and a corresponding plurality of graphical customer interface objects for receiving one or more responses from a customer. For example also described above illustrate graphical customer interface objects and configured to receive customer input related to the corresponding line items shown adjacent to the objects. Proceeding to step one or more responses from the customer may be received using at least one of the graphical customer interface objects. For example receiving the one or more responses from the customer may include receiving one or more acceptances non acceptances purchases or requests to change individual items from the plurality of items. In the example of for example the user may uncheck the box

Next in step the quote or proposal may be modified without intervention by a user responsive to the received one or more responses. In step also without intervention by the user the modified quote or proposal may be displayed to the customer. For example with respect to unchecking the box may cause Order Porter Monthly to be deleted from the proposal and the total price may be automatically updated to show the deletion.

Proceeding to step an output may be made to the user to report a notification corresponding to the received input from the customer.

The method shown in as well as other methods shown in other flow charts or described elsewhere herein may be embodied as computer executable instructions carried on a non transitory computer readable medium. For example rotating magnetic media rotating optical media flash memory ROM RAM a usb drive and or other tangible media are examples of non transitory computer readable media.

Throughout the disclosure figures and claims herein reference is made to a customer. According to embodiments the term customer is to be understood to mean a person or selected individuals to whom a quote or proposal is or is to be presented. The person or selected individuals need not actually purchase or need not have purchased in the past. To avoid cumbersome language the term customer is used to encompass customers prospective customers influencers consultants approvers and or companies or organizations for whom the quote or proposal is prepared.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments are contemplated. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

