---

title: Methods and devices for generating a stereoscopic image
abstract: Methods and devices for generating a stereoscopic image are described. In one aspect, the electronic device includes a first camera for generating first camera data, a second camera for generating second camera data and a third camera for generating third camera data. The cameras are positioned on a same side of the electronic device and in spaced relation to each other. The electronic device also includes a controller coupled with the first camera, the second camera and the third camera. The controller is configured to: identify an orientation of the electronic device; and generate a stereoscopic image based on the first camera data and the second camera data when the electronic device is at a first orientation, and generate the stereoscopic image based on the first camera data and the third camera data when the electronic device is at a second orientation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09148651&OS=09148651&RS=09148651
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09148651
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20121005
---
The present disclosure relates to camera systems and more particularly to methods and devices for generating a stereoscopic image.

Electronic devices such as smartphones and tablet computers are often equipped with one or more cameras. For example electronic devices may be equipped with a front facing camera which is oriented to capture an image of a subject located near a side of the electronic device which includes the main display of the electronic device. Electronic devices may also be equipped with a rear facing camera which is oriented to capture an image of a subject located near a side of the electronic device which does not include the main display of the electronic device.

Electronic devices equipped with cameras often provide various features and functionalities for the cameras. A user of the electronic device may control camera features to capture an image based on the user s preferences. Features of the cameras that may be controlled include the camera lens aperture size shutter speed external flash zooming focusing etc.

Some electronic devices provide camera features for stereoscopic image capture and display. Such electronic devices are often equipped with two cameras that are on a common side e.g. that are both on a rear side of the electronic device and spaced apart.

In one aspect the present application describes an electronic device for generating a stereoscopic image. The electronic device includes a first camera for generating first camera data a second camera for generating second camera data and a third camera for generating third camera data. The cameras are positioned on a same side of the electronic device and in spaced relation to each other. The electronic device also includes a controller coupled with the first camera the second camera and the third camera. The controller is configured to identify an orientation of the electronic device and generate a stereoscopic image based on the first camera data and the second camera data when the electronic device is at a first orientation and generate the stereoscopic image based on the first camera data and the third camera data when the electronic device is at a second orientation.

In another aspect the present application describes a method implemented by a controller of an electronic device for generating a stereoscopic image. The electronic device includes a first camera for generating first camera data a second camera for generating second camera data and a third camera for generating third camera data. The cameras are positioned on a same side of the electronic device and in spaced relation to each other. The method includes identifying an orientation of the electronic device and generating a stereoscopic image based on the first camera data and the second camera data when the electronic device is at a first orientation and generating the stereoscopic image based on the first camera data and the third camera data when the electronic device is at a second orientation.

In yet another aspect the present application describes a computer readable storage medium. The computer readable storage medium includes computer executable instructions for generating a stereoscopic image. The computer executable instructions includes instructions for identifying an orientation of the electronic device and generating a stereoscopic image based on the first camera data and the second camera data when the electronic device is at a first orientation and generating the stereoscopic image based on the first camera data and the third camera data when the electronic device is at a second orientation.

Other example embodiments of the present disclosure will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from a review of the following detailed description in conjunction with the drawings.

Example embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to any particular operating system electronic device architecture server architecture or computer programming language.

Reference is first made to which illustrates an example electronic device in which example embodiments described in the present disclosure can be applied. In the example embodiment illustrated the electronic device is a mobile communication device. That is the electronic device is configured to communicate with other electronic devices servers and or systems i.e. it is a communication device and the electronic device is portable and may be easily moved between different physical locations i.e. it is a mobile device . However in other example embodiments the electronic device may not be portable i.e. may not be a mobile device and or may not be configured to communicate with other systems i.e. may not be a communication device .

Depending on the functionality provided by the electronic device in various example embodiments the electronic device may be a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a mobile telephone such as a smartphone a wearable computer such as a watch a tablet computer such as a slate computer a personal digital assistant PDA or a computer system. The electronic device may take other forms apart from those specifically listed above. The electronic device may also in various example embodiments be referred to as a mobile communications device a communication device a mobile device an electronic device and in some cases as a device.

The electronic device includes a housing housing the components of the electronic device . The internal components of the electronic device are constructed on a printed circuit board PCB . The electronic device includes a controller including at least one processor such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of the electronic device . It will be appreciated that in at least some example embodiments the controller may instead of or in addition to the processor include an analog circuit or other types of circuits capable of performing a part or all of the functions of the processor that are described herein. The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem for exchanging radio frequency signals with a wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor may be communicably coupled with additional device subsystems including one or more output interfaces such as a display and or a speaker one or more input interfaces such as a first camera a second camera a third camera a microphone a keyboard not shown an orientation sensor control buttons not shown a touch sensitive overlay not shown associated with a touchscreen display and or other input interfaces memory such as flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM etc. auxiliary input output I O subsystems a data port which may be a serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port a short range communication subsystem and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may include a touchscreen display which acts as both an input interface i.e. touch sensitive overlay and an output interface i.e. display . The touchscreen display may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface which is connected to an electronic controller and which overlays the display . The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input interface and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller.

The particular design of the wireless communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which the electronic device is intended to operate. The wireless network may include one or more of a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN and or a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN and or other suitable network arrangements. In some example embodiments the electronic device is configured to communicate over both the WWAN and WLAN and to roam between these networks. The electronic device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network via the wireless communication subsystem after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed.

In at least some example embodiments the auxiliary input output I O subsystems may include an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The electronic device may include other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network. The auxiliary I O subsystems may include a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on the electronic device such as receipt of an electronic communication or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback i.e. touch feedback .

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device also includes a removable memory module which may be flash memory such as a removable memory card and a memory interface . Network access may be associated with a subscriber or user of the electronic device via the memory module which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory card for use in the relevant wireless network type. The memory module is inserted in or connected to the memory interface of the electronic device in order to operate in conjunction with the wireless network .

The data port may be used for synchronization with a user s host computer system not shown . The data port enables a user to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the electronic device by providing for information or software downloads to the electronic device other than through the wireless network . The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the electronic device through a direct reliable and trusted connection to thereby provide secure device communication.

The electronic device includes a first camera a second camera and a third camera . The cameras are capable of capturing camera data such as images in the form of still photographs and or motion video. The camera data may be captured in the form of an electronic signal which is produced by an image sensor associated with each of the cameras . Pairs of the cameras may collectively be capable of capturing stereoscopic images for display. That is a selected pair of the cameras may collectively produce stereoscopic image data which defines a stereoscopic image. Stereoscopic images may provide an illusion of depth in the images to a user i.e. three dimensional 3 D images .

To produce stereoscopic image data the cameras are oriented in generally the same direction e.g. the cameras may be positioned on the same side of the electronic device . For example as will be discussed below in at least some example embodiments all of the cameras may be rear facing. That is the cameras are in some example embodiments arranged to capture an image of a subject on a rear side of the electronic device .

The cameras are mounted in spaced relation to one another. That is there may be a space between each of the cameras . For example the first camera and the second camera are spaced apart in order to collectively capture a stereoscopic image the first camera and the third camera are spaced apart in order to collectively capture a stereoscopic image. In some embodiments the second camera and the third camera are spaced apart in order to collectively capture a stereoscopic image. The distances between a pair of the cameras that may be used for generating a stereoscopic image may be approximately the same as the distance between a standard person s eyes which is around 6.35 cm . In at least some example embodiments the distances between a pair of the cameras that may be used for generating a stereoscopic image may be smaller or larger than the distance between a person s eyes and the distances may be of varying lengths from one another. A larger distance between any two of the cameras may allow for capturing a stereoscopic image that produces an enhanced effect of stereoscopy to a user.

Since the cameras are offset from one another so too are the images they produce. That is the first camera captures a first image i.e. captures first camera data defining a first image and the second camera captures a second image i.e. captures second camera data defining a second image that is offset from the first image and the third camera captures a third image i.e. captures third camera data defining a third image that is offset from the both the first image and the second image. The first image second image and third image are captured at different positions from one another due to the positioning of the first camera the second camera and the third camera . The offset between any two of the images for example the first image and the second image is defined by the distance referred to as the intra axial distance between the respective two cameras for example the first camera and the second camera .

Accordingly stereoscopic image data may be produced by the cameras . Such stereoscopic image data includes a combination of two images for example a first image produced using the first camera and either a second image produced using the second camera or a third image produced using the third camera . The images used in the combination may be captured at the same time or approximately the same time but may be offset in appearance due to the spacing between the cameras 

In at least some example embodiments the cameras are arranged in such a manner that a combination of two of the cameras is configured to capture stereoscopic images only at specific orientations of the electronic device . For example a combination of two of the cameras may capture stereoscopic images when the two cameras are horizontally aligned that is a line passing through the midpoint of the cameras are aligned with the horizon for a particular orientation of the electronic device .

For example the first camera and the second camera may be horizontally aligned when the electronic device is at a first orientation which may be a portrait orientation of the electronic device the first camera and the third camera may be horizontally aligned when the electronic device is at a second orientation which may be a landscape orientation of the electronic device . The second camera and the third camera may be horizontally aligned when the electronic device is at a third orientation which may be a tilted orientation that is in between the portrait orientation and the landscape orientation of the electronic device . Accordingly the first camera and the second camera may capture stereoscopic images when the electronic device is at the first orientation the first camera and the third camera may capture stereoscopic images when the electronic device is at the second orientation. In some embodiments the second camera and the third camera may capture stereoscopic images when the electronic device is at the third orientation in this orientation some rotation may be applied to the images from the camera before generating a stereoscopic image .

When the electronic device is not within a predefined threshold from one of these orientations the cameras may in some example embodiments not be configured to capture stereoscopic images as no two cameras are horizontally aligned for example with respect to the horizon . In at least some example embodiments when the electronic device is not at one of the positions where a pair of cameras are horizontally aligned the electronic device may generate a stereoscopic image using a pair of cameras which are closest to horizontal alignment.

Since only two cameras are required to generate a stereoscopic image one or more of the cameras may be disabled based on the orientation of the electronic device . For example In at least some example embodiments the camera that is not horizontally aligned with another camera when the other two cameras are horizontally aligned for a particular orientation of the electronic device may be disabled for operation for that orientation of the electronic device for example the third camera may be disabled when the electronic device is at the first orientation . Greater details of such configurations are discussed below with reference to .

The cameras may all be configured as front facing cameras or may all be configured as rear facing cameras. Front facing cameras are provided by cameras that are located to obtain images near a front face of the electronic device . The front face is typically the face on which a main display is mounted. That is when front facing cameras are provided on the electronic device the display is configured to display content which may be viewed from a side of the electronic device where the cameras are directed.

Rear facing cameras are provided by cameras which are located to obtain images of a subject near a rear side of the electronic device . The rear side is typically a side which does not include the main display of the electronic device . In at least some embodiments the electronic device may operate in one operating mode in which the display acts as a viewfinder displaying image data associated with rear facing cameras.

The rear facing cameras may obtain images which are not within the field of view of the front facing cameras. The field of view of the front facing and rear facing cameras may generally be in opposing directions.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device is provided with a service routing application programming interface API which provides an application with the ability to route traffic through a serial data i.e. USB or Bluetooth Bluetooth is a registered trademark of Bluetooth SIG Inc. connection to a host computer system using standard connectivity protocols. When a user connects their electronic device to the host computer system via a USB cable or Bluetooth connection traffic that was destined for the wireless network is automatically routed to the electronic device using the USB cable or Bluetooth connection. Similarly any traffic destined for the wireless network is automatically sent over the USB cable or Bluetooth connection to the host computer system for processing.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may include one or more sensors. For example the electronic device may include an orientation sensor that detects the orientation of the electronic device or that generates information from which the orientation of the electronic device can be determined such as acceleration information. In some example embodiments the orientation sensor is an accelerometer such as a three axis accelerometer. An accelerometer is a sensor which converts acceleration from motion e.g. movement of the electronic device or a portion thereof due to the strike force and gravity which are detected by a sensing element into an electrical signal producing a corresponding change in output . Accelerometers may be available in one two or three axis configurations. Higher order axis configurations are also possible. Accelerometers may produce digital or analog output signals depending on the type of accelerometer. In other example embodiments the orientation sensor may be of other forms instead of or in addition to an accelerometer. For example the orientation sensor may be a gravity sensor a gyroscope a tilt sensor an electronic compass or other suitable sensors or combinations thereof.

The orientation sensor may generate orientation data which specifies the orientation of the electronic device . The orientation data in at least some example embodiments specifies the orientation of the electronic device relative to the gravitational field of the earth. In at least some example embodiments the received orientation data may be classified to determine a particular orientation of the electronic device such as a portrait orientation a landscape orientation and or one or more orientations in between a portrait orientation and landscape orientation i.e. the classified orientation data may indicate the typical orientations of the electronic device when held by a user to capture images . Accordingly in at least some example embodiments the orientation data may be used to configure the electronic device to capture stereoscopic images for a particular orientation of the electronic device . For example the orientation data may be used to identify the orientation of the electronic device and enable two of the cameras that are horizontally aligned at the identified orientation of the electronic device to capture stereoscopic images.

The electronic device also includes or is connectable to a power source such as a battery . The battery may be one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the electronic device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the electronic device .

The electronic device stores data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example embodiment is the flash memory . In various example embodiments the data includes service data including information used by the electronic device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information image data calendar and schedule information notepad documents image files and other commonly stored user information stored on the electronic device by its user and other data. The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the electronic device may be organized at least partially into one or more databases or data stores. The databases or data stores may contain data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the memory.

The electronic device may in at least some example embodiments be a mobile communication device which may provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and a voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or a web page download are processed by the wireless communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded web page may be further processed by a browser application or an email message may be processed by an email messaging application and output to the display . A user of the electronic device may also compose data items such as email messages for example using the input devices in conjunction with the display . These composed items may be transmitted through the wireless communication subsystem over the wireless network .

In the voice communication mode the electronic device provides telephony functions and operates as a typical cellular phone. The overall operation is similar to the data communication mode except that the received signals would be output to the speaker and signals for transmission would be generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware e.g. a voice communication module and hardware e.g. the microphone the speaker and input interfaces . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the electronic device . Although voice or audio signal output is typically accomplished primarily through the speaker the display may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules include operating system software and other software applications .

The software applications on the electronic device may also include a range of additional applications including for example a notepad application Internet browser application voice communication e.g. telephony application mapping application or a media player application or any combination thereof. Each of the software applications may include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements e.g. text fields input fields icons etc. in the user interface e.g. the display according to the application.

The software modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information as will be apparent. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and it will be appreciated that a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and possibly voice communication applications may be installed on the electronic device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to the operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto the electronic device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communication subsystem or other suitable device subsystem . The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory i.e. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime.

The processor may be electrically connected to the cameras to allow the processor to receive electronic signals representing camera data from the cameras 

In at least some embodiments the software modules may include one or more camera applications or software modules which are configured for handling the electronic signals representing camera data from the cameras . The camera application may for example be configured to provide a viewfinder on the display by displaying in real time or near real time images defined in the electronic signals received from the cameras . The camera application may also be configured to capture images or videos by storing images or videos defined by the electronic signals received from the cameras . For example the camera application may be configured to store the images or videos to memory for example the flash memory of the electronic device . The images may be stored in various formats including JPEG RAW BMP etc.

The camera application may also be configured to control options or preferences associated with the cameras . For example the camera application may be configured to control camera lens apertures and or shutter speeds associated with the cameras . The control of such features may in at least some example embodiments be automatically performed by the camera application based on output received from a light exposure meter.

In at least some example embodiments the camera application may be configured to control a flash associated with the cameras and or to control a zoom level associated with the cameras . In at least some example embodiments the camera application is configured to provide digital zoom features. The camera application may provide digital zoom features by cropping an image down to a centered area with the same aspect ratio as the original. In at least some example embodiments the camera application may interpolate within the cropped image to bring the cropped image back up to the pixel dimensions of the original. The camera application may in at least some example embodiments provide image stabilization for the cameras . Image stabilization may reduce blurring associated with movement of the cameras 

In at least some example embodiments the camera application may be configured to focus the cameras on a subject. More particularly the camera application may be configured to control actuators of the cameras to move lenses a lens may be comprised of one or more lens elements in the cameras relative to image sensors in the cameras . For example when capturing images of subjects which are very close to the cameras e.g. subject at macro position the camera application may control the actuators to cause the actuators to move the lenses away from the image sensors.

In at least some example embodiments the camera application or another application may be configured to process electronic signals of images captured by cameras for stereoscopic display. That is the camera application may assemble camera data obtained from the cameras into one or more stereoscopic images.

In at least some example embodiments the camera application may be configured to allow for simultaneous operation of all the cameras or in at least some example embodiments at least a combination of two of the cameras depending on the orientation of the electronic device . That is the camera application may allow the cameras to simultaneously capture images. For example a user may input an instruction to the electronic device via an input interface instructing the electronic device to capture an image. In response the electronic device may simultaneously capture an image using the first camera the second camera and the third camera or in at least some example embodiments capture an image using a combination of two of the cameras a first image defined by first camera data is captured using the first camera a second image defined by second camera data is captured using the second camera and a third image defined by third camera data is captured using the third camera . These images may be captured at approximately the same time. In at least some example embodiments based on the orientation of the electronic device two of these images may collectively form stereoscopic image data.

In at least some example embodiments the camera application or another application may be configured to control the generation of stereoscopic images. For example the camera application may change the combination of two of the cameras to capture stereoscopic images when the orientation of the electronic device is changed i.e. it may select which pair of cameras to use based on the orientation .

For example in at least some example embodiments the camera application may identify an orientation of the electronic device which may include determining whether the electronic device is at a first orientation or a second orientation or even a third orientation and generate a stereoscopic image based on first camera data and second camera data when the electronic device is at the first orientation and generate the stereoscopic image based on first camera data and third camera data when the electronic device is at the second orientation in at least some example embodiments the camera application may further generate the stereoscopic image based on the second camera data and the third camera data when the electronic device is at the third orientation . That is the first camera and the second camera are enabled to capture stereoscopic images when the electronic device is at the first orientation and the first camera and the third camera are enabled to capture stereoscopic images when the electronic device is at the second orientation.

Specific functions and features of the camera application will be discussed in greater detail below with reference to .

While the embodiment discussed above includes a processor coupled with a camera application which collectively act as an image signal processor to provide image related functions such as auto focusing in other example embodiments not shown another processor such as a dedicated image signal processor may provide some or all of these functions.

In at least some example embodiments the operating system may perform some or all of the functions of the camera application . In other example embodiments the functions or a portion of the functions of the camera application may be performed by one or more other applications.

Further while the camera application has been illustrated as a stand alone application in other example embodiments the camera application may be implemented as part of the operating system or another application . Furthermore in at least some example embodiments the functions of the camera application may be provided by a plurality of software modules. In at least some example embodiments these software modules may be divided among multiple applications.

As discussed above the electronic device may take a variety of forms. For example in at least some example embodiments the electronic device may be a smartphone.

Referring now to a front view of an example electronic device which is a smartphone is illustrated. The smartphone is a mobile phone which offers more advanced computing capability than a basic non smartphone cellular phone. For example the smartphone may have the ability to run third party applications which are stored on the smartphone .

The smartphone may include the components discussed above with reference to or a subset or superset of those components. The smartphone includes a housing which houses at least some of the components discussed above with reference to .

In the example embodiment illustrated the electronic device includes a display which may be a touchscreen display which acts as an input interface . The display is disposed within the electronic device so that it is viewable at a front side of the electronic device . That is a viewable side of the display is disposed on the front side of the electronic device . In the example embodiment illustrated the display is framed by the housing .

The example electronic device also includes other input interfaces such as one or more buttons keys or navigational input mechanisms. In the example embodiment illustrated at least some of these additional input interfaces are disposed for actuation at a front side of the electronic device .

Reference will now be made to which show example embodiments of the electronic device which is a smartphone in the illustrated example embodiment . More particularly illustrates an example rear view of the electronic device . illustrates another example rear view of the electronic device . illustrates a further example rear view of another example embodiment of the electronic device . illustrates a yet further example rear view of the electronic device . Reference will be first made to the embodiment of .

Referring first to an example rear view of the example electronic device is illustrated. The example electronic device includes a first camera a second camera and a third camera that are positioned on a same side of the electronic device . More particularly the cameras are configured as rear facing cameras located on a rear side of the electronic device . That is the rear facing cameras are located on a side of the electronic device which does not include the display . The rear facing cameras are located so that they may capture images of objects which are located in the rear of and or surrounding the rear side of the electronic device . In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may operate in at least one operating mode in which the display on the front side of the electronic device acts as a viewfinder displaying image data associated with the rear facing cameras.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may also include one or more front facing cameras instead of or in addition to the rear facing cameras. The front facing cameras may be located on the front side of the electronic device .

As mentioned above the cameras may be configured to capture stereoscopic images. For example the cameras that are horizontally aligned for a particular orientation of the electronic device may be enabled to capture stereoscopic images e.g. a pair of cameras may be aligned when that pair is substantially parallel with the horizon . For example a combination of two of the cameras may be configured to capture stereoscopic images when the electronic device is orientated at a first orientation while a different combination of two of the cameras may be configured to capture stereoscopic images when the electronic device is orientated at a second orientation.

In the illustrated example the electronic device is held in a first orientation which is a portrait orientation where its height is longer than its width in which the first camera and the second camera are horizontally aligned i.e. a line extending between the midpoint of these two cameras is substantially horizontal . The first camera and the second camera are enabled to capture stereoscopic images when the electronic device is at the portrait orientation. Similarly when the orientation of the electronic device is changed to a second orientation such as a landscape orientation which will be discussed with reference to the first camera and the third camera are horizontally aligned. The first camera and the third camera are enabled to capture stereoscopic images when the electronic device is held in the landscape orientation.

The electronic device of is illustrated at a portrait orientation where the first camera and the second camera are horizontally aligned. In at least some example embodiments the orientation of the electronic device may be changed as illustrated in which shows another example rear view of the electronic device .

With reference to the electronic device is orientated to a landscape orientation where its width is longer than its height . At the landscape orientation the first camera and the third camera are horizontally aligned and may be configured to capture stereoscopic images i.e. the first camera and the third camera may be used at the landscape orientation instead of the first camera and the second camera .

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may include an orientation sensor that generates orientation data based on the orientation of the electronic device . Accordingly the electronic device may identify an orientation of the electronic device based on the orientation data and enable two of the cameras to capture stereoscopic images based on the orientation of the electronic device . That is the two cameras that are horizontally aligned at the identified orientation of the electronic device are configured to capture stereoscopic images. For example in at least some example embodiments in identifying the orientation of the electronic device the electronic device may determine whether the electronic device is at a portrait orientation as shown in or a landscape orientation as shown in based on the orientation data. If the electronic device is determined to be at a portrait orientation the first camera and the second camera are enabled to capture stereoscopic images as the first camera and the second camera are in horizontal alignment with each other. While if the electronic device is determined to be at a landscape orientation the first camera and the third camera are enabled to capture stereoscopic images as the first camera and the third camera are in horizontal alignment.

As the cameras are fixed i.e. they are stationary relative to the electronic device there are a limited number of orientations of the electronic device at which at least a combination of two of the cameras are horizontally aligned. Furthermore in at least some example embodiments a pair of the cameras may not be used to generate a stereoscopic image if that pair of cameras is oriented such that images generated by the cameras would have to undergo a rotation that would require part of the images to be cropped in order to generate a stereoscopic image. For example in at least some example embodiments the second camera and the third camera would be prevented from generating a stereoscopic image since the images created by those cameras would have to be rotated in a manner that would require considerable cropping in order to create a stereoscopic image. Accordingly in the illustrated example embodiments of only two pairs of cameras may be used to generate stereoscopic images. These camera pairs are associated with two orientations a landscape or portrait orientations of the electronic device . Accordingly the electronic device may be configured to capture stereoscopic images when the electronic device is either at a landscape orientation or a portrait orientation. That is the electronic device may allow capture of stereoscopic images only at two orientations i.e. the first orientation or the second orientation of the electronic device and may not allow capture of stereoscopic images when the electronic device is at other orientations. In such example embodiments if the electronic device determines that the orientation of the electronic device is not at the first orientation or the second orientation none of the cameras are enabled to capture stereoscopic images. It will be appreciated that the electronic device may be considered to be at an orientation if it is within a predetermined threshold of that orientation.

However in at least some example embodiments the electronic device may be configured to capture stereoscopic images even when it is at orientations other than the first orientation or the second orientation. In such example embodiments the electronic device may determine whether the orientation of the electronic device is closer to the landscape orientation or to the portrait orientation. For example the electronic device may utilize the orientation data to perform the determination process when the electronic device is oriented between the portrait orientation and the landscape orientation. If the electronic device determines that the orientation of the electronic device is closer to the portrait orientation the electronic device may enable the first camera and the second camera to capture stereoscopic images. That is if the electronic device is tilted closer to the portrait orientation than the landscape orientation the first camera and the second camera are configured to capture stereoscopic images. If the electronic device determines that the orientation of the electronic device is closer to the landscape orientation the electronic device may enable the first camera and the third camera to capture stereoscopic images. That is if the electronic device is tilted closer to the landscape orientation than the portrait orientation the first camera and the third camera are configured to capture stereoscopic images.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may allow operation of at least two of the cameras to capture stereoscopic images at a third orientation of the electronic device in addition to the first orientation and the second orientation of the electronic device . That is a pair of the cameras may be horizontally aligned when the electronic device is at the third orientation. In the illustrated examples of the second camera and the third camera may be horizontally aligned when the electronic device is at a clockwise tilted orientation that is in between the portrait orientation and the landscape orientation i.e. the second camera and the third camera are in alignment with the horizon . Accordingly the first camera and the second camera may capture stereoscopic images when the electronic device is at the portrait orientation the first camera and the third camera may capture stereoscopic images when the electronic device is at the landscape orientation and the second camera and the third camera may capture stereoscopic images when the electronic device is at the clockwise tilted orientation.

In at least some example embodiments the camera that is not horizontally aligned with the other two cameras that are horizontally aligned for a particular orientation of the electronic device is disabled i.e. the camera may not operate to capture any form of camera data . For example the third camera is disabled when the electronic device is at the portrait orientation as shown in and the second camera is disabled when the electronic device is at the landscape orientation as shown in . Accordingly camera data may be received from only two of the cameras when the electronic device is either at a portrait orientation or a landscape orientation.

However in other example embodiments the camera that is not horizontally aligned with the other two horizontally aligned cameras may not be disabled and remain operable. In such example embodiments the three cameras may be configured to simultaneously or near simultaneously capture images for example in response to receiving an instruction to trigger the cameras prior to generating a stereoscopic image from the images of two of the cameras. For example the third camera may simultaneously capture an image when the first camera and the second camera captures stereoscopic images at the portrait orientation of the electronic device and the second camera may simultaneously capture an image when the first camera and the third camera captures stereoscopic images at the landscape orientation of the electronic device .

The cameras may be fixedly attached to the electronic device and they may not move or rotate relative to the electronic device when the electronic device moves. That is the cameras remain stationary relative to the electronic device when the orientation of the electronic device is changed for example from a portrait orientation to a landscape orientation .

In some example embodiments an image captured by the first camera may be rotated to correct for a change in orientation. Accordingly in at least some example embodiments an image captured by the first camera may be rotated prior to generating a stereoscopic image when the electronic device is at the second orientation for example the landscape orientation . The rotation of the captured image may be performed by a lossy and or lossless method as appreciated by those skilled in the art.

In other example embodiments instead of using a software rotation the first camera may be capable of rastering in two directions. For example the first camera may raster in a direction associated with the portrait orientation and a direction associated with the landscape orientation. The electronic device may control the direction of raster based on the orientation of the electronic device .

In the example embodiments of the cameras are shown to be positioned as a right triangle on the rear side of the electronic device . The first camera is positioned at the corner of the right triangle that forms a ninety degree and the second camera and the third camera are positioned at the other corners of the right triangle. That is the first camera is positioned at the intersection of a side of the triangle formed by the first camera and the second camera and a side of the triangle formed by the first camera and the third camera . The first camera is also positioned opposite a side of the triangle formed by the second camera and the third camera . Accordingly the first camera is horizontally aligned with the second camera when the electronic device is at the portrait orientation as shown in and horizontally aligned with the third camera when the electronic device is at the landscape orientation as shown in .

It will be appreciated that the cameras positioned to form a right triangle as shown in may be located differently to form the right triangle. For example in at least some example embodiments the first camera may be positioned at an opposite 90 degree corner on the rear side of the electronic device . That is rather than being positioned at a top left corner where the first camera is horizontally aligned with the second camera when the electronic device is at the portrait orientation the first camera may positioned at a middle right corner where it is horizontally aligned with the third camera when the electronic device at the portrait orientation.

In at least some example embodiments the cameras may be positioned to form other triangular formations besides a right triangle. One such example embodiment will now be illustrated with reference to .

By way of example in the example embodiment of the cameras are positioned to form a triangle on the rear side of the electronic device . The first camera may be positioned at the corner of the triangle that forms an angle between thirty and sixty degrees and the second camera and the third camera may be positioned at the other corners of the triangle.

More particularly in the cameras are shown positioned to form an isosceles triangle with the first camera and the second camera positioned at the base corners of the triangle that each form a forty five degree angle and the third camera positioned at the apex corner. That is the side opposite the first camera i.e. the second camera and the third camera side and the side opposite the second camera i.e. the first camera and the third camera side are of equal length and the third camera is located at the apex of the triangle with the side opposite the third camera i.e. the first camera and the second camera forming the base of the triangle.

Accordingly as shown in the first camera is horizontally aligned with the second camera when the electronic device is at a portrait orientation i.e. a first orientation . That is the first camera and the second camera are enabled to capture stereoscopic images when the electronic device is held at the portrait orientation. While as shown in the first camera is horizontally aligned with the third camera when the electronic device is at a counter clockwise tilted orientation of forty five degrees between the portrait orientation and the landscape orientation i.e. the first camera and the third camera are in alignment with the horizon at such a second orientation . That is the first camera and the third camera are enabled to capture stereoscopic images when the electronic device is held counter clockwise tilted by forty five degrees.

As mentioned above in at least some example embodiments the cameras may not form an isosceles triangle i.e. the first camera corner and the second camera corner have different angles and or the first camera corner may have an angle that is different than forty five degrees i.e. another angle between thirty and sixty degrees . In such example embodiments the first camera and the third camera are horizontally aligned when the electronic device is tilted based on the first camera corner angle. For example if the first camera corner forms a fifty degree angle the first camera and the third camera are horizontally aligned to capture stereoscopic images when the electronic device is at a tilted orientation of fifty degrees.

In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may include more than three cameras for example four cameras that are all located on the same side of the electronic device . Reference will now be made to which shows one such example embodiment of the electronic device .

In the illustrated example the first camera and the second camera are horizontally aligned and enabled to capture stereoscopic images when the electronic device is at the portrait orientation. When the orientation of the electronic device is changed to a landscape orientation the first camera and the third camera are horizontally aligned and enabled to capture stereoscopic images. When the orientation of the electronic device is changed to a counter clockwise tilted orientation that is between the landscape orientation and the portrait orientation the first camera and the fourth camera are horizontally aligned and enabled to capture stereoscopic images. Additionally when the orientation of the electronic device is changed to a clockwise tilted orientation that is between the landscape orientation and the portrait orientation the second camera and the third camera are horizontally aligned and enabled to capture stereoscopic images. Thus the use of four cameras may allow stereoscopic images to be obtained in a greater number of orientations.

As shown in more than a combination of two of the cameras may be horizontally aligned for particular orientations of the electronic device . For example the third camera and the fourth camera may additionally be horizontally aligned when the electronic device is at the portrait orientation and the second camera and the fourth camera may additionally be horizontally aligned when the electronic device is at the landscape orientation. In such example embodiments the other combination of two cameras may additionally be enabled to capture stereoscopic images. For example when the electronic device is held at the portrait orientation the first camera and the second camera are enabled to capture stereoscopic images and the third camera and the fourth camera are also enabled to capture stereoscopic images. While when the electronic device is held at the landscape orientation the first camera and the third camera are enabled to capture stereoscopic images and the second camera and the fourth camera are also enabled to capture stereoscopic images. The stereoscopic images of the two combinations of cameras may be captured at the same time or at different times.

It will be appreciated that in at least some example embodiments the four cameras may be positioned differently on the rear side of the electronic device . Additionally in at least some example embodiments the electronic device may include more than four cameras. For example in at least some example embodiments the electronic device may include eight cameras that are all positioned on the same side of the electronic device for example the rear side of the electronic device . More particularly the eight cameras are positioned to form a clock formation such that each camera is opposite another camera to form four pairs of opposing cameras and each pair of opposing cameras is horizontally aligned at four different orientations of the electronic device . A pair of cameras may be selected for generating a stereoscopic image based on the orientation of the electronic device. That is the electronic device may select which of the pairs is closest to horizontal alignment and may use that pair. It will be appreciated that a greater number of cameras may be used.

Referring now to a flowchart of an example method of generating a stereoscopic image is illustrated. The electronic device may be configured to perform the method of . In at least some example embodiments the controller which may include the processor and or an analog circuit of the electronic device is configured to perform the method of . One or more applications or modules on the electronic device may contain computer readable instructions which cause the controller of the electronic device to perform the method of . In at least some example embodiments the camera application stored in memory of the electronic device is configured to perform the method of . More particularly the camera application may contain computer readable instructions which when executed cause the controller to perform the method of .

It will be appreciated that the method of may in at least some example embodiments be provided by other software applications or modules apart from those specifically discussed above for example the operating system . Accordingly any features which are referred to as being performed by the electronic device may be performed by any one or more of the software applications or modules referred to above or other software modules. In at least some example embodiments at least some of the method of may be performed by or may rely on other applications or modules.

The method includes at identifying an orientation of the electronic device . The electronic device may include an orientation sensor that generates orientation data based on the orientation of the electronic device . Accordingly the electronic device may identify the orientation of the electronic device based on the obtained orientation data.

In at least some example embodiments as part of the identification process the electronic device at may determine whether the electronic device is at a first orientation or a second orientation based on the orientation data. In such example embodiments the orientation data may be analyzed to classify the orientation of the electronic device as one of a predefined set of possible orientations such as a portrait orientation a landscape orientation and or specific tilted orientations in between a portrait orientation and a landscape orientation i.e. the first orientation and second orientation each represent one of these types of orientations of the electronic device . In at least some example embodiments the electronic device may determine whether its orientation falls within the one of two classified orientations.

In at least some example embodiments rather than determining whether the orientation of the electronic device is at the one of two orientations i.e. the first orientation or the second orientation the electronic device may determine whether its orientation is closer to the first orientation or the second orientation based on the orientation data. For example the electronic device may identify that its orientation is between the landscape orientation i.e. the first orientation and the portrait orientation i.e. the second orientation and further determine whether its tilted orientation is closer to the landscape orientation or the portrait orientation.

If it is determined that the electronic device is at the first orientation the electronic device at may disable the third camera . That is the third camera may not operate to capture any form of camera data. For example the non horizontally aligned cameras e.g. relative to the horizon for a particular orientation of the electronic device are disabled. That is the third camera which is not horizontally aligned with any of the other cameras when the electronic device is at the first orientation is disabled.

If it is determined that the electronic device is at the first orientation at the electronic device may generate a stereoscopic image based on the first camera data of the first camera and the second camera data of the second camera . That is the first camera and the second camera are horizontally aligned and enabled to capture stereoscopic images when the electronic device is at the first orientation. For example a user holding the electronic device at the first orientation may trigger both the first camera and the second camera via an input interface associated with the electronic device to capture images simultaneously or near simultaneously that are processed to produce stereoscopic images. Accordingly the first camera and the second camera may be configured to capture stereoscopic images.

However if it is determined that electronic device is at the second orientation the electronic device at may instead disable the second camera from operating. For example the non horizontally aligned second camera is disabled when the electronic device is at the second orientation.

At the electronic device may rotate an image captured by the first camera prior to generating stereoscopic images from the first camera and the third camera . That is when the electronic device moves to a second orientation an image captured by the first camera may need to be rotated to correct for a change in orientation. The rotation of the captured image may be performed by a lossy and or lossless method as appreciated by those skilled in the art.

When the electronic device is determined to be at the second orientation at the electronic device may generate a stereoscopic image based on the first camera data of the first camera and the third camera data of the third camera . That is the first camera and the third camera are horizontally aligned and enabled to capture stereoscopic images when the electronic device is at the second orientation. For example a user holding the electronic device at the second orientation may trigger both the first camera and the third camera via an input interface associated with the electronic device to capture images simultaneously or near simultaneously that are processed to produce stereoscopic images. Accordingly the first camera and the third camera may be configured to capture stereoscopic images.

While at and one of the cameras is disabled when the electronic device is either at the first orientation or the second orientation in at least some example embodiments these cameras may not be disabled. That is all of the cameras may be enabled and may be configured to capture images simultaneously prior to generating stereoscopic images. For example a user may trigger each of the cameras via an input interface associated with the electronic device to simultaneously capture images.

As mentioned above in at least some example embodiments the electronic device may at instead determine whether the electronic device is closer to a first orientation or a second orientation. In such example embodiments and may be performed in response to the electronic device determining that its orientation is closer to the first orientation and and may be performed in response to the electronic device determining that its orientation is closer to the second orientation.

While the present application is described in terms of an electronic device and methods it will be appreciated that the present application is also directed to an article of manufacture for use with the apparatus such as a pre recorded storage device or other similar computer readable medium including program instructions recorded thereon or a computer data signal carrying computer readable program instructions may direct an apparatus to facilitate the practice of the described methods. It is understood that such apparatus articles of manufacture and computer data signals also come within the scope of the present application.

The term computer readable medium as used herein means any medium which can store instructions for use by or execution by a computer or other computing device including but not limited to a portable computer diskette a hard disk drive HDD a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or flash memory an optical disc such as a Compact Disc CD Digital Versatile Disc DVD or Blu ray Disc and a solid state storage device e.g. NAND flash or synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM .

Example embodiments of the present application are not limited to any particular operating system system architecture mobile device architecture server architecture or computer programming language.

The various embodiments presented above are merely examples and are in no way meant to limit the scope of this application. Variations of the innovations described herein will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art such variations being within the intended scope of the present application. In particular features from one or more of the above described example embodiments may be selected to create alternative example embodiments including a sub combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. In addition features from one or more of the above described example embodiments may be selected and combined to create alternative example embodiments including a combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. Features suitable for such combinations and sub combinations would be readily apparent to persons skilled in the art upon review of the present application as a whole. The subject matter described herein and in the recited claims intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology.

