---

title: Image providing system, apparatus for same, and image providing method
abstract: An image providing system includes: a terminal to run at least one application, to request an image from a service device, to determine whether the application supports all screen densities, to extract and transmit a resolution value of an area for displaying the image when all screen densities are supported, and to extract and transmit screen density information supported in the application when not all screen densities are supported; a service device to resize the image to match at least one resolution, to check a resolution value of the terminal and provide the image resized to match the checked resolution value to the terminal when the image is requested from the terminal, and when only screen density information is transmitted from the terminal, to calculate a resolution value from the screen density information and provide the image resized to match the calculated resolution value to the terminal.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09401007&OS=09401007&RS=09401007
owner: SK PLANET CO., LTD.
number: 09401007
owner_city: Seoul
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20121009
---
This application claims the priority of Korean Patent Application No. 10 2012 0002866 filed on Jan. 10 2012 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office KIPO the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. Further this application is the National Phase application of International Application No. PCT KR2012 008144 filed Oct. 9 2012 which designates the United States and was published in English. Each of these applications is hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety into the present application.

The present disclosure relates to an image providing system that provides images resized to match display specifications of a terminal and more particularly to an image providing system that can provide images appropriate for display specifications of a terminal even when accurate resolution information is not provided from the terminal a device therefor and a method thereof.

Recently as open environments for mobile communication terminals are provided open applications and platform environments for service differentiation are demanded.

More specifically as smart phones in which a user can freely select and install a desired mobile application are rapidly growing open market places OMPs that can freely trade such mobile applications have been activated.

However since various operating systems are used in current smart phones it is necessary for application developers to develop mobile applications in consideration of various operating system environments.

More particularly an operating system OS manages resources and functions of a terminal having the OS ported therein and enables access to all or a part of resources and functions of the terminal when requested by an application ported in the terminal. This is performed such that the OS provides application programming interfaces APIs . In other words applications access resources and functions of a device with reference to APIs provided by the OS. Therefore in order for developers to develop applications of a device having a specific OS ported therein it is necessary to develop applications according to formats of APIs provided by the OS. Under current conditions in which various OSs are used developers need to develop the same applications independently according to APIs of each OS.

Moreover recently developed mobile applications are likely to be executed in conjunction with a server for customized services and real time services. For example a mobile application mounted in the terminal includes only default executable codes and resources for executing a corresponding application are received from the server in real time.

Particularly since advertising services need to change advertising contents in real time the server manages advertising images screens an appropriate advertising image according to an advertising image request from a mobile communication terminal and provides the screened image to the mobile communication terminal.

In this case in order to meet various display specifications of the mobile communication terminal the server checks display specifications of the mobile communication terminal and resizes images to have a resolution matching the checked display specifications.

In this case since it is difficult for the server to manage display specifications of all mobile communication terminals resolution information of the terminal is generally received from the mobile communication terminal.

Some operating systems support a screen having various sizes ratios and densities. However it is difficult to check accurate screen information of a corresponding mobile communication terminal depending on environment settings. In this case it is difficult for the server to provide images appropriate for the display specifications of the corresponding mobile communication terminal.

More specifically in a mobile communication terminal having a specific OS when the application is set not to accommodate all screen densities anyDensity false since a dot per inch dpi value for indicating a screen density is provided from the terminal instead of accurate resolution information it is difficult for the server to provide an advertising image having an appropriate resolution.

Disclosed herein is an image providing system that can provide images appropriate for display specifications of a terminal even when accurate resolution information is not provided from the terminal a device therefor and a method thereof.

In accordance with some embodiments an image providing system may include a terminal and a service device. The terminal may be configured to run at least one application to request an image from a service device in response to a request from the running application to determine whether the application supports all screen densities to extract and transmit a resolution value of an area for displaying the image when all screen densities are supported and to extract and transmit screen density information supported in the application when not all screen densities are supported. The service device may be configured to resize the image to match at least one resolution to check a resolution value of the terminal and provide the image resized to match the checked resolution value to the terminal when the image is requested from the terminal and when only screen density information is transmitted from the terminal to calculate a resolution value from the screen density information and provide the image resized to match the calculated resolution value to the terminal.

In accordance with some embodiments a service device may include a storage unit a communication unit and an image providing unit. The storage unit may be configured to store one or more images to be provided to a terminal each of the images being resized as at least one image to match at least one resolution. The communication unit may be configured to transmit and receive data to and from the terminal via a network. The image providing unit may be configured to check a resolution of the terminal and provide the image resized to match the checked resolution to the terminal when the image is requested from the terminal through the communication unit and when only screen density information is transmitted from the terminal to calculate an appropriate resolution value from the screen density and provide the image resized to match the calculated resolution value to the terminal.

The service device according to an embodiment may further include an image resizing unit configured to resize each of the images according to at least one resolution to further resize each of the resized images at a ratio set to match at least one screen density and to store the further resized images in the storage unit.

The image providing unit may be further configured to calculate the resolution value of the terminal from the screen density information using

 R represents a resolution value Vis a dpi value of an area on which a corresponding image received from the terminal is displayed and X is a ratio value set to match the screen density .

In accordance with some embodiments a terminal may include a control unit a storage unit an output unit a communication unit and an input unit. The control unit may be configured to run at least one application to check whether the running application supports all screen densities in response to a request for a specific image from the running application to extract a resolution value of an area for displaying the specific image when all screen densities are supported and to extract screen density information supported in the application and obtain the specific image having a resolution corresponding to both the resolution value and the screen density information when not all screen densities are supported. The storage unit may be configured to store the at least one application. The output unit may be configured to output an execution screen of the application and the image. The communication unit may be configured to transmit and receive data via a network under control of the control unit. The input unit may be configured to receive a user s input including execution of the application.

The control unit may be further configured to transmit a request message for the specific image the resolution value and the screen density information to a service device through the communication unit and to receive the specific image from the service device.

The storage unit may be further configured to further store images having a plurality of resolutions and resized in consideration of the screen density. The control unit may be further configured to calculate the resolution value from the screen density information and to obtain the specific image corresponding to the resolution value from the storage unit.

In accordance with some embodiments an image providing method includes resizing images to be provided to a terminal to match at least one resolution further resizing each of the resized images at a ratio corresponding to at least one screen density receiving an image request from the terminal receiving screen density information from the terminal calculating a resolution value of the terminal from the screen density information and extracting the image resized to match the calculated resolution value to provide the extract image to the terminal.

The screen density information may include a screen density value supported in an application from which an image including at least one of ldpi mdpi hdpi and xhdpi is requested and a dpi value of an area on which the image is displayed.

The further resizing at a ratio corresponding to at least one screen density may include at least one of further resizing each of the resized images having at least one resolution at a ratio of about 1.3333 corresponding to the screen density of ldpi further resizing each of the resized images having at least one resolution at a ratio of about 1 corresponding to the screen density of mdpi further resizing each of the resized images having at least one resolution at a ratio of about 0.6666 corresponding to the screen density of hdpi and further resizing each of the resized images having at least one resolution at a ratio of about 0.5 corresponding to the screen density of xhdpi.

In accordance with some embodiments a computer readable recording medium records a program to execute a function of resizing images to be provided to a terminal to match at least one resolution a function of resizing each of the images that have been resized to have at least one resolution with a ratio corresponding to at least one screen density a function of receiving an image request from the terminal a function of receiving screen density information from the terminal a function of calculating a resolution value of the terminal from the screen density information and a function of extracting the image resized to match the calculated resolution value and providing the image to the terminal.

According to this disclosure it is possible to calculate an accurate resolution value of the terminal using only the screen density information and dpi information received from the terminal. As a result even when the accurate resolution information is not provided depending on environment settings of the terminal it is possible to obtain an accurate resolution value of the terminal using only the obtained screen ratio and dpi information and provide images having a resolution appropriate for the terminal.

Moreover according to embodiments in the operation of checking the resolution of the terminal it is possible to directly calculate the resolution of the terminal without performing individual comparison using a case statement. Therefore it is possible to decrease the number of calculation clocks for checking the resolution.

Hereinafter exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure will be described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. However detailed descriptions of well known functions or configurations that unnecessarily obscure the gist of the disclosure in the following explanations and accompanying drawings will be omitted. The same reference numbers will be used throughout this specification to refer to the same or like parts.

Moreover terms and words used in this specification and claims should not be interpreted as limited to commonly used meanings or meaning in dictionaries and should be interpreted with meanings and concepts which are consistent with the technological scope of the disclosure based on the principle that the inventors have appropriately defined concepts of terms in order to describe the disclosure in the best way. Therefore since the embodiments described in this specification and configurations illustrated in drawings are only exemplary embodiments and do not represent the overall technological scope of the disclosure it is understood that the disclosure covers various equivalents modifications and substitutions at the time of filing of this application.

As illustrated in the service system may include a terminal and a service device that perform data communications via a network .

The terminal is a device including at least one application running on a specific OS and receives resources especially images such as video still images from the service device via the network and displays the result when the application is running. As illustrated in in the terminal an operating system L is installed in hardware L including for example an input unit a touch unit a storage unit and a communication unit and runs management and control functions of the hardware L . A plurality of applications L are installed in the operating system L . In this case the operating system L provides application program interfaces APIs for interfacing with the plurality of applications L and the applications L use functions provided and supported by the operating system L using open APIs.

In this case the specific OS allows a type of a screen supported by the application L to be explicitly designated. In this case the type of the screen is represented as a screen size and a screen density. More specifically applications based on the specific OS may select attributes such as smallScreens normalScreens largeScreens and anyDensity. In this case normalScreens indicates whether a medium resolution for example HVGA is supported smallScreens indicates whether a resolution lower than the medium resolution is supported and largeScreens indicates whether a resolution greater than the medium resolution is supported. Meanwhile anyDensity is an attribute to indicate whether the application supports all screen densities. Not all screen densities are supported when a value of the attribute is false whereas all screen densities are supported when a value of the attribute is true. Especially when the attribute value of anyDensity is false accurate resolution information of a corresponding terminal is not provided and a dot per inch DPI value for indicating a screen density is provided.

Even in this case the terminal transmits only the screen density and a ratio value to the service device receives an image resized to match a resolution of the terminal and displays the result. This operation will be described in detail with descriptions of an image providing method.

Examples of the terminal may include a personal computer PC laptop computer mobile phone tablet PC navigation smart phone personal digital assistants PDA portable multimedia player PMP or digital broadcasting receiver such as a digital video broadcasting DVB . These are only exemplary and the terminal may include devices capable of communicating that have currently been developed and commercialized or that will be developed in addition to the above examples.

The service device is a service device that includes a function of providing images such as videos and still images to the terminal and checks the resolution of the terminal and provides an image resized to match the checked resolution according to an image request from the terminal .

In particular when images for example advertising images or background images are requested from a specific application installed in the terminal the service device resizes the images according to resolution information received from the terminal and provides the resized images to the terminal . In this case when the specific application is set not to support all screen densities anyDensity false the resolution of the terminal is calculated using only information transmitted from the terminal that is a dpi value and a screen ratio value and corresponding images are resized to match the calculated resolution. Here an operation of calculating an optimal resolution of the terminal will be described in detail in the image providing method with reference to .

The service device may include any service device that includes a function of providing images to the terminal . For example various service devices such as advertising service devices and content providing distributing devices may be included. More specifically the advertising service devices may provide advertising images to be displayed in a specific area on a running screen of the application according to a request from the application installed in the terminal .

As illustrated in the terminal receives images from the service device and displays the images and may include a storage unit a control unit a communication unit an input unit and an output unit .

The storage unit is configured to store programs and data to be processed in the terminal and includes a main memory such as a read access memory RAM and a storage such as a hard disk drive HDD or a flash memory. Here the RAM has the same access time of data stored in any location and data or programs running in the terminal are loaded therein. An auxiliary storage unit such as the HDD or flash memory has different access times according to a stored location and data or programs are stored therein due to a large capacity while speed is slower than the memory.

Specifically the storage unit stores an OS program that manages and controls hardware of the terminal and provides execution environments for applications. When power of the terminal is turned on the OS program is executed first by the control unit and provides execution environments of the terminal . In particular the OS program may support various screen sizes and resolutions.

Moreover the storage unit stores at least one application. The application is practically stored in the HDD or flash memory and is loaded in the memory under control of a control unit when execution is requested. The application is programmed to be operated in the OS and may be developed using a software development kit SDK based on the OS. In this case the application may designate a screen size to be supported in a corresponding application by setting attribute values such as smallScreens normalScreens largeScreens and anyDensity due to support of the OS.

Further the storage unit stores various user data in addition to data necessary for operating for example the OS program and application programs and data generated by such operations.

The control unit controls the overall operations of the terminal executes the OS program first and executes the application in the execution environments built by the OS program. In this case when the application requests a specific image from the service device the control unit checks whether the application is set to accommodate all screen densities. When it is determined that not all screen densities are accommodated the control unit checks a screen density for example ldpi mdpi hdpi and xhdpi of the terminal and a dpi value of an area on which the image is displayed and transmits the results to the service device . Then the image resized to have a resolution based on the screen density and dpi value of the terminal is received from the service device and displayed on the area.

The communication unit performs data communications via the network and more specifically transmits information associated with the image request and resolution that is the screen density and dpi value to the service device under control of the control unit and receives images from the service device .

The input unit is configured to generate a user input signal corresponding to a user input of the terminal and includes for example a plurality of input keys and function keys configured to receive number or text information and set various functions. The user input signal is generated from a corresponding input key or function key according to a user s manipulation and is delivered to the control unit . Here the user input signal may include for example an execution request signal of a specific application and a specific function selection signal of a running application.

The input unit may include at least one of general input devices such as a keyboard mouse and touchpad and may also include various types of input devices currently under development or to be developed.

The output unit outputs operation states and results under control of the control unit and outputs a user interface screen for input. When the specific application is executed an execution result of the running application is displayed on the screen. That is a visually represented part for example backgrounds menus photos videos text and icons in the execution result of the application is displayed. Particularly the image received from the service device under control of the control unit is displayed on a designated display area. The output unit may be implemented as a liquid crystal display LCD or touch screen. When the output unit is implemented as the touch screen all or a part of functions of the input unit may be performed.

As illustrated in the service device may include a communication unit a storage unit an image providing unit and an image resizing unit .

The communication unit is configured to transmit and receive data with at least one terminal via the network receives the resolution information and image request from the terminal and transmits the image resized to match the resolution of the terminal to the terminal .

The storage unit stores at least one image to be provided to the terminal . In this case each image is stored as a plurality of images resized to have different resolutions and sizes such that various display specifications available in the terminal are satisfied. For example in the storage unit a single image is resized to have a plurality of resolutions and the image for each resolution is resized to have two or more screen densities for example ldpi mdpi hdpi and xhdpi .

When the image request is received from a specific terminal through the communication unit the image providing unit checks resolution information transmitted from the terminal selects an image having the checked resolution from the storage unit and provides the image to the terminal . In this case when the checked resolution information of the terminal is the screen density and dpi value the image providing unit calculates the resolution from the screen density and dpi value using the following Equation 1.

In Equation 1 R represents a calculated resolution and Vis the dpi value received from the terminal and a dpi of an area on which a corresponding image is displayed. X is a ratio value set for each screen density ldpi mdpi hdpi and xhdpi received from the terminal and specifically it is set to about 1.3333 for ldpi 1 for mdpi 0.6666 for hdpi and 0.5 for xhdpi. A detailed description thereof is given below.

According to an embodiment when anyDensity false is satisfied a relation between the screen density value and the resolution provided for each of 9 types of resolutions mainly used in the terminal is compared. As a result it is known that there is a constant ratio between the provided screen density value dpi and resolution. That is there is a constant ratio of about 1.3333 for ldpi 1.0 for mdpi 0.6666 for hdpi and 0.5 for xhdpi. The following Table 1 compares a part of the relation between the 9 types of resolutions and each screen density value which are checked in this embodiment. As shown in Table 1 it is known that there is a constant ratio between the screen density and the resolution.

When the relation is conversely used it is possible to calculate a corresponding resolution value from the screen density value and the dpi value of the area to be displayed.

That is when anyDensity false is satisfied in the application that requests images of the terminal only the screen density ldpi mdpi hdpi and xhdpi value and dpi value are provided. It is possible to obtain an appropriate resolution by assigning a ratio value corresponding to the screen density to Equation 1 with the provided dpi value.

The image resizing unit resizes images to be provided to the terminal to match various resolutions and screen densities and stores the resized images in the storage unit . In this case the image resizing unit resizes each image to have two or more currently used resolutions. Then the images that have been resized to have each resolution are resized again to match two or more screen densities according to Equation 1. That is a width and height of each image is respectively resized at a ratio of 0.3333 for ldpi 1 for mdpi 0.6666 for hdpi and 0.5 for xhdpi.

Hereinafter image providing operations between the terminal and the service device configured as described above will be described in detail with reference to .

As illustrated in in running of a specific application when the image request is generated from the application the terminal checks setting conditions of the application first and determines whether all screen densities can be accommodated S . This is to determine whether anyDensity true is satisfied by checking Manifest file of the application. Here when anyDensity true is satisfied all screen densities are accommodated and when anyDensity false is satisfied not all screen densities are accommodated.

As a determination result when not all screen densities are accommodated the screen density of the terminal is checked S . Here the screen density may be one of ldpi mdpi hdpi and xhdpi. In general ldpi as a low density has a value of about 120 dpi mdpi as a medium density has a value of about 160 dpi hdpi as a high density has a value of 240 dpi and xhdpi as an extra high density has a value of dpi higher than hdpi.

As described above with reference to Table 1 there is a constant ratio between each resolution and screen density. In this case mdpi as a medium density has a ratio of 1 and has the same value of resolution and screen density.

Therefore as a checking result when all screen densities are accommodated anyDensity true in operation S or the screen density of the terminal is mdpi in operation S pixel information of a display area is directly transmitted to the service device S .

On the other hand when not all screen densities are accommodated in operation S or the screen density of the terminal is any one of ldpi hdpi and xhdpi in operation S the terminal informs the service device of the checked screen density information of the terminal that is any one of ldpi hdpi and xhdpi S S and S and transmits the dpi value of the display area on which a corresponding image is displayed S .

Then images having an appropriate resolution are received from the service device and displayed on the display area S .

Next is a flowchart illustrating image providing operations in the service device in the image providing method in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure.

As illustrated in when there are images to be provided to the terminal the service device resizes the images to match various resolutions in units of pixels first S .

Next the images that have been resized to match each resolution are respectively resized again to match the screen density of ldpi mdpi hdpi and xhdpi S S S and S .

More specifically the width and height of the images for each resolution are adjusted to have a ratio of 1.33333 and images corresponding to the screen density of ldpi are generated S .

Moreover the width and height of the images for each resolution are adjusted to have a ratio of 1 and an image corresponding to the screen density of mdpi is generated S .

Further the width and height of the images for each resolution are adjusted to have a ratio of 0.6666 and an image corresponding to the screen density of hdpi is generated S .

Furthermore the width and height of the images for each resolution are adjusted to have a ratio of 3.5 and an image corresponding to the screen density of xhdpi is generated S .

Therefore images resized to match 4 types of screen densities for each resolution are generated again.

In this way in a state in which each image is resized to match the plurality of resolutions and screen densities and is stored in the storage unit when a request of the image is received from the specific terminal S the service device receives resolution information from the terminal and more specifically receives the resolution value or the screen density and dpi information S .

Then a ratio corresponding to the received screen density is checked. The checked ratio and the dpi value are calculated using Equation 1 a screen size to be provided to the terminal is checked an image having the checked screen size is extracted from the storage unit and the image is transmitted to the terminal S .

In the above embodiments while the image providing method based on a server client method has been described the image providing method according to the present disclosure may also be implemented as another method.

In this case in operation S to S in the terminal further stores the plurality of images resized to have the plurality of resolutions in consideration of the screen density in the storage unit . During execution of the application when a specific image is requested the terminal checks whether the application is set to accommodate all screen densities in operation S to S in . When not all screen densities are accommodated the screen density of the application is checked. A resolution value appropriate for the application is calculated from the checked screen density and dpi information of the display area. An image corresponding to the calculated resolution value is extracted from the storage unit and the image is processed according to a logic of the application.

In this case the plurality of images resized to have the plurality of resolutions stored in the terminal may be previously received from the service device and stored.

The image providing method according to embodiments of this disclosure may be implemented in a type of software that can be read by various computer means and may be recorded in a computer readable recording medium. Here the recording medium may include any one of or a combination of for example program instructions data files and data structures. The program instructions recorded in the recording medium may be specially designed and configured for the disclosure or may also be known and available for those skilled in computer software. Examples of the recording medium include a hard disk a floppy disk magnetic media such as a magnetic tape optical media such as a compact disk read only memory CD ROM and a digital video disk DVD magneto optical media such as a floptical disk and a specifically designed hardware device for storing and performing program instructions such as a ROM random access memory RAM and flash memory. Examples of the program instructions may include a machine code generated by a compiler and a high level code can be executed by a computer using for example an interpreter. Such a hardware device may be configured to be operated as at least one software module to perform operations of the disclosure and vice versa.

As described above while this specification and drawings describe exemplary embodiments of the disclosure it is apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications based on the technological scope of the disclosure in addition to the embodiments disclosed herein can be made. Moreover while specific terms are used in this specification and drawings these are used with general meanings to easily describe technological content of the disclosure and to help understanding of the disclosure and the disclosure is not limited thereto.

According to the disclosure it is possible to calculate an accurate resolution value of the terminal using only the screen density information. As a result even when the accurate resolution information is not provided due to environment settings of the terminal it is possible to provide images having a resolution appropriate for the terminal using only the obtained screen density information.

Moreover according to the disclosure in the operation of checking the resolution of the terminal it is possible to directly calculate the resolution of the terminal without performing individual comparison using a case statement. Therefore it is possible to decrease the number of calculation clocks for checking the resolution.

