---

title: Game control device, game control method, program, recording medium, and game system
abstract: The disclosed game control device is a device executing a game that simulates a sport or an amusement in the real world. The device includes: a setter configured to set a situation in a sport or an amusement before an event on the game; an event generator configured to generate the event based on information of an operational input under the situation set by the setter; and a result generator configured to generate a game result based on the situation set by the setter and the event generated by the event generator.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09586143&OS=09586143&RS=09586143
owner: KONAMI DIGITAL ENTERTAINMENT CO., LTD.
number: 09586143
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20121101
---
The present invention is based upon and claims the benefit of priority of the prior Japanese Patent Application No. 2012 040608 filed on Feb. 27 2012 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a technique for controlling a progress of a game for respective users.

Conventionally a user has enjoyed games by operating a game device by himself or herself. In this case the game device includes a hardware that reads game application software game application program and executes the program. Competitive games such as a baseball game or the like are known as games that are realized with game applications. In order to enhance game entertainment such Competitive games may include a variety of functions as well as a competition itself. For example Competitive games include a function that allows a user to customize abilities of game characters to be operated by the user.

For example a laid open Japanese patent publication 2000 189677 discloses a game system baseball game that includes schedule generation means for generating an action schedule for respective game characters. In this game system a user can instruct a game character to do a specific action in order to enhance ability of the game character. In this game system it is assumed that a user trains game characters that is enhance abilities of game characters or competes against the other user or CPU. It is also assumed that the user performs a training and a competition in turns.

Recently so called social network games have become widespread which run on game applications created on the basis of operating environments such as application programming interfaces API operated on a web browser in a social networking service SNS provided by a particular service provider. Social network games may be defined as a type of online game played between a plurality of unspecified users who are communicating with each other. A player who has a communication terminal connectable to the Internet and with a web browser installed is able to enjoy network games regardless of time or location.

Some of the aforementioned social network games are of user friendly. In the case of games that simulate sports or amusements in the real world such as a baseball game the social network games are often configured to allow users to immediately confirm a result of a match. Therefore such social network games are now being accepted by users who do not want to spend much time for playing games or users who want to casually play games. On the other hand in the social network games the result of a match may be obtained with a simple pressing operation to a button etc. Due to this simple operation a user is not interested in a game process until the result of the match is obtained. In view of the above the social network games have drawbacks that game play is monotonous and lacks a fun factor.

The present invention has been devised in consideration of the above. An object of the present invention is to provide a game control device a game control method a program a recording medium and a game system that allow respective users to play a game with simple operations while keeping interest with regard to a game process until a game result is obtained.

An aspect of the present invention is a game control device executing a game that simulates a sport or an amusement in the real world the device including a setter configured to set a situation in a sport or an amusement before an event on the game an event generator configured to generate the event based on information of an operational input under the situation set by the setter and a result generator configured to generate a game result based on the situation set by the setter and the event generated by the event generator.

This game control device may further include an associator configured to associate users an acquirer configured to acquire access information from a user and a calculator configured to calculate a number of the users who are associated with a first user the users performing access during a period of time based on the access information acquired by the acquirer the first user playing the game wherein the setter sets the situation such that the game result is advantageous for the first user as the number of the users increases.

This game control device may further include an associator configured to associate users an acquirer configured to acquire access information from a user and a calculator configured to calculate a number of the users associated with a first user the users performing access during a period of time based on the access information acquired by the acquirer the first user playing the game wherein the event is generated more than two times consecutively the setter sets the situation before the event on the game such that the game result is advantageous for the first user as a value increases the value being initially the number of the users calculated by the calculator the value being decreased by one every time the event is generated.

This game control device may further include an associator configured to associate users and an acquirer configured to acquire access information from a user wherein the setter sets the situation based on the access information acquired by the acquirer such that the game result is advantageous for a first user as degree of intimacy between the first user and a second user increases the first user playing the game the second user being associated with the first user the second user performing access during a period of time the degree of intimacy indicating a degree of association of the first user and the second user on the game.

This game control device may further including an associator configured to associate users and an acquirer configured to acquire access information from a user wherein the setter sets the situation based on the access information acquired by the acquirer such that the game result is advantageous for a first user as the sum of values increases the first user playing the game the values each corresponding to different second users the second users being associated with the first user the second users performing access during a period of time.

Another aspect of the present invention is a game control device executing a game that simulates a baseball the device including a setter configured to set an on base situation of a runner character before a hitting event on the game an event generator configured to generate the hitting event based on information of an operational input under the on base situation set by the setter and a result generator configured to generate a game result based on the on base situation set by the setter and the hitting event generated by the event generator.

This game control device may further include an associator configured to associate users and an acquirer configured to acquire access information from a user wherein the setter sets the on base situation for a first user such that a second user corresponds to the runner character based on the access information acquired by the acquirer the first user playing the game the second user being associated with the first user and performing access during a period of time.

In this game control device when the running character exists on at least one base the setter sets the on base situation such that the running character corresponding to the second user is positioned on a base that is close to the home base as degree of intimacy between the first user and the second user increases the degree of intimacy indicating a degree of association of the first user and the second user on the game.

With this game system the game server is configured to be able to communicate with the communication terminal as a client. The game server provides gaming service with the communication terminal . The game server is embedded with an application operable on a web browser as a game application in the game system. The database server stores a variety of information for executing the games as described below. The database server is connected to the game servers by means of a wired connection for example for reading and writing the information.

The communication terminal includes a web browser that is able to display a web page provided by the game server . A user plays a game by performing an operation on the web page displayed on the communication terminal .

In addition to the game server an authentication server may be provided for authenticating respective users of the communication terminals although not illustrated in . Further if providing a plurality of the game servers for receiving accesses from a large number of the communication terminals a load balancer may be provided for regulating loads among the plurality of game servers . Furthermore the game server may be configured as a single server device or as a plurality of server devices to which functions are distributed.

As represented in each communication terminal includes a central processing unit CPU a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM an image processing unit an operational input unit a display unit and a communication interface unit as a signal reception unit. Further each communication terminal includes a bus for transmitting control signals or data signals among the components.

The CPU loads a web browser stored in the ROM into the RAM and runs the web browser therein. The CPU acquires data for displaying a web page from the game server through the communication interface unit on the basis of an appropriately specified uniform resource locator URL that is inputted by a user using the operational input unit and the like. The acquired data is data of objects such as images associated with a hypertext markup language HTML document and the HTML document hereinafter collectively referred to as HTML data on an as needed basis . The CPU then interprets the acquired HTML data. It should be noted that each communication terminal may be embedded with a variety of plug ins for extending browsing functions of the web browser.

In acquiring the HTML data the CPU transmits an access request message to the game server through the communication interface unit . The access request message herein includes either a preliminarily registered user ID user identification information or a user ID inputted through the operational input unit .

The web browser displays on the display unit a web page provided by the game server through the image processing unit on the basis of the acquired HTML data. Further when either a Hyperlink or a button on the web page is selected by a user operating the operational input unit the web browser sends a request to the game server that is a request for updating a web page HTTP request to transmit new HTML data for displaying the web page in accordance with the selection.

The image processing unit displays a web page on the display unit on the basis of image data for display to be provided from the CPU as an analysis result of the HTML data. For example the display unit is a liquid crystal display LCD monitor including thin film transistors arranged in a matrix manner on a pixel by pixel basis. The display unit displays the image of the web page by driving the thin film transistors on the basis of the image data for display on a display screen

In the case in which the mobile terminal is a communication terminal to which a button input method see applies the operational input unit is equipped with a button group and a button group . The button group includes a plurality of operational input buttons such as a directional instruction button and a confirmation button for receiving user operational inputs. The button group includes a plurality of operational input buttons such as an alphanumeric keypad and the like. The operational input unit also includes an interface circuit for recognizing pressing operational inputs of the buttons and outputting the inputs to the CPU . For example the direction instructional button is provided for instructing the CPU to scroll and display a web page displayed on the display unit . The confirmation button is provided for instructing the CPU to select one of a plurality of hyperlinks or buttons displayed on a web page. The selected hyperlink or button may be activated e.g. highlighted . When the communication terminal is a small portable terminal the aforementioned buttons are preferably disposed on the front face of the communication terminal to allow a user to easily operate click the buttons with the thumb of the hand holding the communication terminal . In the example illustrated in the button group is arranged below the button group and includes a plurality of operational input buttons depicted as 0 to 9 an alphanumeric keypad .

In the case in which the mobile terminal is a communication terminal to which a touch panel input method see applies the operational input unit receives touch panel method inputs inputted by mainly touching the display screen with a finger or a pen. The touch panel input method may be a known method such as a capacitance method. As illustrated in the communication terminal may be provided with a button group despite having the touch panel input method.

In the case in which a button input method applies to the mobile terminal for example a selection operation of a button on a web page displayed on the communication terminal is performed by the following steps selecting a button with a pressing operation of the direction instructional button and subsequently confirming the selected button with a pressing operation of the confirmation button. In the case in which a touch panel input method applies to the mobile terminal for example the selection operation is conducted by indicating touch operation with a finger or pen a position of a button on the display screen on which the web page is displayed.

For example the game server manages a website of a game including a plurality of hierarchically structured web pages. The game server provides a web service of the game to the communication terminals . As illustrated in the game server includes a CPU a ROM a RAM a database DB access unit and a communication interface unit . Further the game server includes a bus for transmitting control signals or data signals among the components. It should be noted that the game server may have the same hardware structure as general purpose web servers.

The ROM stores an application program that provides the service of displaying a HTML document and objects such as images i.e. displaying a web page to the web browser of the communication terminal as a client. A variety of data referenceable by the CPU is stored in the ROM in addition to the application program.

The CPU loads a game program stored in the ROM into the RAM and runs the loaded game program. The CPU also performs a variety of processing through the communication interface unit .

For example the CPU transmits HTML data to the communication terminal through the communication interface unit . Moreover the CPU performs authentication processing when the game server performs authentication processing of the user of the communication terminal .

The CPU performs processing in accordance with the hyperlink or button selected by the user on the web page displayed on the communication terminal through the communication interface unit . The processing includes for example transmitting new HTML data calculating or data processing in the game server .

The database access unit is an interface used when the CPU performs data reading and data writing with respect to the database server .

The database server can be realized by a general purpose storage such as a high capacity hard disc drive a redundant array of inexpensive disks RAID or other form of device. Databases inside the database server are configured to allow reading and writing of data by the CPU through the database access unit of the game server .

The game executed by the game server of the present embodiment is not limited so long as it is a game that simulates a sport or an amusement in the real world. For convenience sake of the following explanation a baseball type digital card game will be considered as an exemplary game that is realized by the game server .

The baseball type digital card game is configured such that a user collects player cards to form a team of the user. Each of the player cards correspond a baseball player. The user plays a match with the other user s team or plays a league match for a skill level corresponding to the user. Processing that is included in the baseball type digital card game are scouting processing for searching player cards to form a user s own team drawing processing for allowing to obtain player cards by drawing and enhancement processing for enhancing ability of a specific player card by combining more than two player cards etc.

In the following explanation data for each user ID or for each user name explained below that identifies a user included in the user database is referred to collectively as user data. The data of the fields that configure the user data are described below.

 User Name Display Image represents a user name and a display image displayed for identifying a user of the communication terminal while executing the game. The user name is a text of a certain length or less specified in advance by the user. The display image is for example an avatar image selected in advance by the user. The user name is a name to identify a user in a network environment or a game community provided by the game server .

 Team is specified by a user at user registration in the baseball type digital card game. In this game P League that includes six teams P to P and Q League that includes six teams Q to Q are prepared. The user selects any one of these twelve teams at the user registration.

 Skill level indicates a skill level of a user in the game. The skill level is a value that ranges from level 1 Lv1 to level 100 Lv100 for example.

 Action points are points that are necessary for a user to perform scouting in the baseball type digital card game. The action points is a value that decreases by performing scouting and recovers increases each time a certain period of time elapses.

 Operation points are points that are necessary for a user to play a match on the game. The operation points is a value that decreases by playing a match against the other user and recovers increases each time a certain period of time elapses.

 Enhancement Points are points that are necessary for a user to perform enhancement of a player card in the baseball type digital card game. The enhancement points is a value that decreases by performing enhancement of a player card and recovers increases if the user wins the match against the other user or each time a certain period of time elapses.

 Cheering points are points that a user obtains by sending a cheering message to the user s friend in the baseball type digital card game.

 Number of players is the maximum number of players that a user can own. The maximum number of players 60 for example is predetermined.

 Image Data of Owned Cards represents data that includes images of player cards that a user owns in the baseball type digital card game.

 Parameters of Owned Cards include data that indicates ability values of respective player cards. For example as illustrated in the parameters may include ability values such as batting ability running ability and fielding ability. In the example of each ability value is in a range of 0 to 1000 and a higher ability value of a player card indicates that the player card is more capable. In batting ability running ability and fielding ability are exemplified as indexes of ability. Ball speed ball control and stamina and the like may be used alternatively for example if a player is a pitcher.

Referring now back to the game database stores and updates information with regard to configuration of the game that the game server executes and information with regard to game results based on access from the game server . The information with regard to game results may include various types of information according to nature of the game. In the baseball type digital card game for example the information with regard to game results include game results between different user IDs score etc. league matches results among users having a specific skill level score ranking etc. and score results in mission processing that is described later.

Specifically mission processing will be described hereinafter among a plurality of processing steps provided in the present embodiment with reference to . illustrates an example of a top page that is displayed on a communication terminal in the game according to the present embodiment. illustrates an example of a web page that is displayed on a communication terminal in the mission processing.

The top page illustrated in is a web page for respective user IDs. The top page illustrated in includes a user data area a player image area and a menu area.

The user data area is an area in which respective fields of user data for a user ID to be processed is displayed see . The respective fields are User name Team Skill level Level Action points Operation points Enhancement points Cheering points Number of players and Friends.

The player image area is an area in which image of a player card is displayed. The displayed player card is specified by a user among a plurality of player cards that are included in the user data for the user ID to be processed.

The menu area is an area in which a button m Scout a button m Enhance a button m Match a button m Draw a button m Order and a button m Mission that correspond to a plurality of processing steps are displayed as a basic menu. Respective buttons m to m correspond to scouting processing enhancement processing match processing drawing processing order processing and mission processing. That is each of the plurality of processing steps performed in the game is allocated to a corresponding button among the plurality of the buttons. The buttons are located on predetermined positions in the web page that is displayed on the communication terminal . The order processing which corresponds to the button m includes switching an order of player cards a batting order and defense positions of players for example and exchanging a player card set in a starting order for a player card set as a substitute.

With the mission processing according to the present embodiment a user obtains a benefit if total points that the user scores reaches certain points ten for example or more while repeating hitting events before three outs are recorded. In the present embodiment it is configured such that a result of a single hitting event is determined with a single pitch and an on base situation of runner character s is set for each hitting event. A condition for obtaining the benefit may be arbitrarily defined. For example the benefit may be obtained if at least one point is scored before one out is recorded. The benefit may be obtained if total points that the user scores reaches certain points or more before three outs are recorded. The benefit that the user obtains may be arbitrarily defined. For example the benefit that the user obtains may be a certain amount of cheering points or enhancement points or a player card that is difficult to obtain in the game that is a rare card .

In the game of the present embodiment the mission processing illustrated in is performed in response to a selection operation to the button m illustrated in . First as illustrated in the updated web page P is displayed in response to the selection operation to the button m. The web page P of includes an area in which a field image having a home base and first to third bases is displayed a text indicating information about the score at present a display area in which a text that is displayed for indicating numbers of runners on the bases either of 0 1 2 or 3 are displayed rapidly by turns and a button m for determining a number of runners on the bases.

In the web page P illustrated in numbers that are included in the text are displayed rapidly by turns. If a selection operation is performed to the button m any one of the numbers is selected. Then a number of runner s on the bases is determined and base s on which the runner s are positioned are determined. Resultantly the updated web page P is displayed as illustrated in . A displaying method in determining the number of runners and the base s of the runner s is not limited to one described above in which the text are displayed rapidly by turns. Alternatively it may be configured such that displayed images or texts indicating respective situations are rapidly changed and one of the situations may be determined. The respective situations include a situation in which one runner is positioned on the bases a situation in which two runners are positioned on the bases a situation in which three runners are positioned on the bases and a situation in which no runners are positioned on the bases that is bases empty . The number of runner s and the base s on which the runner s are positioned may be randomly determined depending on time when the button m is operated or may be determined according to a certain rule. The web page P of illustrates an example in the case in which one runner runner character RC is positioned on the first base. Note that an on base situation of the runner character may be recognized by a user with text information or voice information such as Runner on third base with one out or the like. The web page P of includes a message that causes a user to select a batting method a button m for selecting Hit ball squarely as batting method and a button m for selecting Swing strongly as batting method. In this case with the bases loaded for example the user can select either Hit ball squarely to surely score a small amount of points or Swing strongly to try to score a large amount of points.

If the button m or the button m is selected by the user a hitting event is generated with a batting method selected by the user and a result Hits or Outs of the hitting event is determined based on a given or a random probability. If the result of the hitting event is Hits then a content of the hits that is single double triple or homerun is determined based on a given or a random probability.

If the result of the hitting event is Hits the updated web page P is displayed as illustrated in . The web page P of illustrates an example in which a content of the hits is triple. The web page P of includes an area in which a text indicating the content Triple for example of the Hits is displayed an area in which a text indicating point s scored with the content One point for example of the hits is displayed and the like. That is triple is determined as the content of the hits under the on base situation in which a runner character RC is positioned on the first base and consequently one point is scored. The scored point is added to the total score.

Here if the total score reaches certain points the user obtains a benefit and the mission processing terminates. If the total score does not reach the certain points processing for determining the number of runners is performed once more in the web page P illustrated in . In this case the total score and the number of outs are held.

On the other hand if the result of the hitting event is Outs a number of outs are added by one and the updated web page P is displayed as illustrated in . The web page P of illustrates an example in which a situation is changed from no outs to one out. The web page P of includes an area in which a text indicating a result of the batting event Out for example etc. The web page P of is configured such that the number of outs at present are recognizable by displaying one mark with its color changed among three marks that represent the number of outs.

If the number of outs reaches three that is three outs the mission processing terminates. If the number of outs does not reach three processing for determining the number of runners is performed once more in the web page P illustrated in . In this case the total score and the number of outs are held.

In the present embodiment the game control device is configured for example by the game server and the database server . Hereinafter functions performed by the game control device of the present embodiment will be described with reference to in the case in which the above described baseball type digital card game which may be referred to as game hereinafter is applied. is a functional block diagram for explaining functions playing main rolls in the game control device according to the present embodiment.

Note that setter event generator and result generator corresponds to main elements of the present invention. The other components are not mandatory elements for the present invention but they are elements that make the present invention more preferable.

In the following explanation marks and buttons and the like displayed on the web pages displayed on the communication terminal are arranged in preferable positions on the web pages. The positions on the display screen of the buttons and marks and the like made visible by the communication terminal may be changed with a scrolling operation of the web page by the user using a direction instructional button or touch panel operation.

A registrar includes a function for recognizing a user request and executing registration processing that is user registration in response to an operational input to the communication terminal on a web page for example that is provided to the communication terminal .

The function of the registrar may be realized for example as described below. The CPU of the game server receives a registration request message from the communication terminal through the communication interface unit . The web page provided by the game server may be configured so that a registration request message is automatically generated by a certain operation e.g. a selection of a certain button or a text input and the like to the communication terminal on the web page. Information e.g. an IP address or an email address and the like for identifying the communication terminal that is the transmission source may be included in the registration request message. Alternatively in the case in which the user plays the other game s from the same service provider the registration request message may include the user ID of that user.

If the CPU receives the registration request message in which a user ID is not included the CPU issues a new user ID and processes the new user ID and then transmits a message to the communication terminal indicating the fact that the registration processing has been completed. If the CPU receives the registration request message in which a user ID is included in the registration request message the CPU processes that user ID and then transmits a registration completion message to the communication terminal .

When the registration is completed the CPU prepares user data corresponding to the user ID and stores the user data in the user database .

The registrar may also register a user ID in association with the other user ID upon an application based on the user ID. That is the registrar registers the other user ID namely the other user as a friend upon an application based on the user ID. Note that in the following explanation a relationship between user IDs has the same meaning as a relationship between users that corresponds to the user IDs. The registrar is an example of the associator of the present invention.

In this case the registrar will be realized for example as described below. The CPU of the game server receives an application message application that specifies a user ID or the corresponding user name to desirably be friends with from the communication terminal of the user corresponding to a certain user ID through the communication interface unit . The transmission of the application message may be preset as a function of the web page provided to the communication terminal of the user. Upon receiving the application message the CPU transmits HTML data to the communication terminal corresponding to the user ID when access occurs based on the user ID included in the application message. The transmitted HTML data is for displaying a web page to request for replying whether or not the application on the basis of the other user ID is approved. The CPU registers both users as friends if a message of approval of the application is returned. Specifically the CPU writes the data in the friend field see of the user data of the two corresponding user IDs in the user database .

The game progress controller progresses the game by transmitting HTML data for successively updating web pages displayed on the communication terminal in response to operations by the user to the communication terminal . As described above processing for the baseball type digital card game includes the following processing to progress the game.

The scouting processing is processing for allowing a user to search player cards to form the user s own team. The action points are consumed by performing scouting while the enhancement points increases.

The enhancement processing is processing for allowing a user to enhance ability of a specific player card by combining more than two player cards.

The match processing is processing for allowing a user s team to perform a baseball match against the other user s team. The operation points are consumed by performing the baseball match while the enhancement points increases if the user wins the match.

The drawing processing is processing for allowing a user to obtain player cards by drawing with the cheering points consumed.

The order processing is processing for allowing a user to switch an order of player cards and to exchange a player card set in a starting order for a player card set as a substitute.

The mission processing is processing for allowing a user to score points by selecting a batting method based on an on base situation of runner s as described with reference to .

In realizing the function of the game progress controller the CPU of the game server allocates either processing for progressing the game to each button that is displayed in a web page. When a button is selected on the web page that is displayed on the communication terminal the CPU receives information with regard to the selected button from the communication terminal . The CPU then performs processing that is allocated to the selected button based on the information received.

The game progress controller causes the communication terminal to display a plurality of buttons. Each of the plurality of processing steps that are performed in the game is allocated to a corresponding button among the plurality of buttons. Specifically the CPU generates HTML data and transmits the same to the communication terminal . The generated HTML data is for displaying the web page that includes the plurality of buttons. As described above the points in the game are consumed in response to execution of each of the scouting processing the enhancement processing the match processing and the drawing processing.

The function of the game progress controller will be realized as described below when the top page of is displayed on the communication terminal of the user for example. The CPU of the game server accesses to the user database through the database access unit and reads out data of respective fields included in the user data area and image data of a player card to be displayed in the player image area. Then the CPU generates HTML data such that the top page of is displayed and transmits the HTML data to the communication terminal . The generated HTML data differs for respective users that is respective user IDs . The communication terminal interprets the HTML that it receives and displays the image of the top page on the display unit display screen .

The game progress controller initiates execution of any processing of the scouting processing the enhancement processing the match processing and the drawing processing in response to a selection operation of the user to the communication terminal . That is respective processing in the game is started by the selection operation to either of the plurality of buttons. Preferably each processing is performed such that a web page is updated for each processing so as to include a plurality of hierarchically structured buttons.

The game progress controller includes a function for performing the match processing in which a user plays a baseball match with the other user s team.

The function of the game progress controller will be realized as described below with reference to . is a flowchart indicating a series of processing that is performed mainly by the CPU of the game server . The flowchart of is for realizing the function for performing the match processing of the game progress controller . illustrates a web page that is displayed on the communication terminal of the user. The web page of is realized by the game progress controller .

A selection operation is performed to the button m see on the top page that is displayed on the communication terminal of a user that corresponds to a user ID. When receiving a result of the selection operation the CPU of the game server randomly determines a plurality of opponent candidates of that user ID among the other user IDs that are included in the user database . At this time a skill level of the opponent candidates may be preferably the same as the skill level of the user that select the button m. The CPU transmits HTML data to the communication terminal to the user Step S . The transmitted HTML data is for displaying a web page that allows the user to select any opponent candidate from the list of the plurality of opponent candidates. If an operation for selecting any opponent candidate from the list of the plurality of opponent candidates is performed by the user Step S YES a web page P is displayed as illustrated in . The web page includes the selected opponent and a button that causes a user to instruct a start of a match. Here if the user selects a button of Play ball Step S YES the CPU performs processing for determining a match result. In determining the match result the CPU accesses to the user database through the database access unit . Then if operation points of the user ID to be processed are more than a predetermined points that are required to play the match the CPU decreases the operation points by that predetermined points and reads out parameters indicating abilities of a plurality of player cards that correspond to two user IDs who performs the match. The CPU determines the match result between the users who play the match Step S . If any opponent is not selected in Step S Step S NO the CPU performs the processing of Step S once more. If the button of Play ball is not selected Step S NO the CPU performs the processing of Step S once more.

Any suitable method can be employed as a method of determining the match result as long as the parameters of player cards affect win loss of the match in the method. For example based on comparison between ability values of player cards two user as opponents own one of the two users with a greater ability value may be configured to win the match with higher probability e.g. a predetermined percentage range of 60 90 . The winning percentage may be set to be higher in proportion to magnitude of difference between ability values. When there are plural ability value fields as illustrated in it is possible to set a comprehensive ability value for the comparison by weighting each ability value with a predetermined coefficient e.g. weighting batting ability running ability and fielding ability with 0.4 0.2 and 0.4 respectively in the example of .

After determining the match result the CPU transmits HTML data to the communication terminal of a user who performs a selection operation to the button of Play ball Step S . This HTML data is for displaying a web page that includes the match result in order to notify the user of the match result. It takes very short period of time several seconds for example from a time when the selection operation to the button Play ball is performed to a time when the web page including the match result is displayed. Thereby the user recognizes the match result within a very short period of time with an easy operation. A web page P is an example of a web page that is displayed by the execution of the match processing. The match result including a score etc. is displayed in the web page P of .

As described with reference to the mission processing is for allowing a user to score points by selecting a batting method based on an on base situation of runner s runner character s RC . The mission processing is performed by the setter the event generator the result generator and the benefit provider .

The setter includes a function for setting a situation in a sport or an amusement before an event on a game. Here event is an event that is simulated in a game. Event may be arbitrarily defined so long as it could happen in a sport or an amusement in the real world. In the case of a baseball game as exemplified in the present embodiment event is not limited to a hitting event as illustrated in but may be a pitching event or a running event. In the case of a soccer game event may be a penalty kick event or a corner kick event. Situation in sports or amusements in the case of a baseball game as exemplified in the present embodiment is not limited to a situation in which a runner is positioned on a base as illustrated in but may be a situation in which a ball is thrown to a batter. The hitting event is an example of event of the present invention. The on base situation of the runner character RC is an example of situation in sports or amusements. 

The function of the setter will be realized as described below. The CPU of the game server generates HTML data and transmits the HTML data to the communication terminal through the communication interface unit . This HTML data is for displaying the web page P illustrated in . When the button m is selected on the web page P of the CPU randomly determines a number of runner s and base s on which the runner s are positioned.

The CPU may determine the number of runner s and the base s on which the runner s are positioned according to a certain rule. The CPU generates HTML data for displaying the web page P of based on the number of runner s runner character s RC and the base s on which the runner s are positioned. Then the CPU transmits the HTML data to the communication terminal .

The event generator includes a function for generating a hitting event based on information of an operational input under the situation set by the setter . Here Information of an operational input may be information indicating that an operational input is performed with regard to an external device that is accessible to the game server for example.

The function of the event generator will be realized as described below. When either of the button m or the button m is selected on the web page P illustrated in the CPU of the game server determines an event to be generated from a hitting event corresponding to Hit ball squarely and a hitting event corresponding to Swing strongly. 

The result generator includes a function for generating a game result based on the situation set by the setter and the event generated by the event generator . Here game result is not limited to an overall result for a game but may be a result for a phase or a part of the game. For example in the case of a baseball game as exemplified in the present embodiment game result is point s that is scored in a single hitting event however this is merely an example of the game result . The game result may be a hitting result hits or outs or a match result. In this embodiment an on base situation of runner character s RC is an example of situation. 

The result generator determines a result hits or outs of a hitting event. As a method for determining the result of the hitting event data for determination that is exemplified in may be applied. Now with reference to the data for determination will be described. illustrates an example of data for determination that is referred to when the hitting event corresponding to hit ball squarely is generated. illustrates an example of data for determination that is referred to when the hitting event corresponding to swing strongly is generated. Probability of hits or outs are set for each data for determination with regard to a number of pitches first pitch first at bat to ninth pitch ninth at bat and a number of outs when the hitting event corresponding to Hit ball squarely or the hitting event corresponding to swing strongly is generated. For example when the hitting event corresponding to hit ball squarely is generated for a first pitch with no outs there is probability of 95 that hits occur. On the other hand when the hitting event corresponding to swing strongly is generated for a first pitch with no outs there is probability of 70 that hits occur. It should be noted that data for determination exemplified in A and B is merely an example of probability and may be modified as needed basis. Further the data for determination exemplified in A and B are configured such that three outs occurs in the ninth pitch at maximum however the number of pitches may not be limited.

When determining that the hitting result is hits the result generator further determines a content of the hits either of single double triple and homerun in the hitting event. The content of the hits may be arbitrarily set for respective batting methods in the hitting event. For example when the hitting event corresponding to hit ball squarely is generated it may be configured such that probability of single is 65 probability of double is 20 probability of triple is 10 and probability of homerun is 5 . When the hitting event corresponding to swing strongly is generated it may be configured such that probability of single is 10 probability of double is 50 probability of triple is 25 and probability of homerun is 15 . Those probability values may be recorded in the ROM . That is when determining that the result of the hitting event is hits the CPU determines a content of the hits with regard to the batting method in the batting event based on the probability values that are recorded in the ROM .

The result generator calculates points that a user scores in a single hitting event based on an on base situation of the runner character s RC and a content of the hits. Table information indicating points that are scored based on the content of the hits may be recorded in the ROM for every combination of positions of the runner character s RC in the on base situations. Specifically referring to the on base situation of the runner character s RC and the content of the hits the CPU calculates points that are scored. The CPU then adds the points that are scored to the total score. The total score may be recorded in the RAM .

The benefit provider includes a function for providing a user with a benefit based on the game result that is generated by the result generator . In the present embodiment the benefit provider provides a user with a benefit if the total points that the user scores is greater than a given value 10 points for example before three outs are recorded in the mission processing. It may be configured such that a content of the benefit varies depending on the total points that the user scores before three outs are recorded. For example the greater the total points that the user gains the more valuable benefit the user may be provided with. The content of the benefit may be but not limited to points usable in the game a certain amount of the cheering points or the enhancement points etc. or a player card that is difficult to obtain in the game that is a rare card .

The function of the benefit provider will be realized as described below. The contents of the benefit are recorded in the ROM . If a user scores points that is greater than a given value until single mission processing terminates the CPU refers to the ROM and performs processing for providing the user with a benefit. The processing for providing the user with the benefit may be processing for associating points or items with user ID of the user. In the case in which enhancement points are provided as a benefit to a user for example the CPU may rewrite enhancement points in user data corresponding to user ID of the user that is add the provided enhancement points to one in the user data .

The following is an explanation about an example of a main processing flow performed by the game control device according to the present embodiment with reference to the flowcharts in . The flowcharts in are mainly performed by the setter the event generator the result generator and the benefit provider .

After recognizing that the button m has been selected in the web page of the CPU of the game server transmits HTML data to the communication terminal . This HTML data is for displaying the web page P illustrated in . Resultantly the web page P is displayed on the communication terminal as illustrated in Step S . Then after recognizing that the button m decision has been selected in the web page P of Step S YES the CPU sets a number of runner s runner character s RC and position s of the runner s Step S . The CPU then transmits HTML data to the communication terminal Step S . This HTML data is for displaying the web page P illustrated in . At this time a user can select a batting method according to the user s preference based on the number and the position s of the runner character s RC.

Next after recognizing that one of the button m Hit ball squarely and the button m Swing strongly has been selected Step S YES the CPU determines a hitting result hits or outs based on data for determination illustrated in Step S . If the hitting result is hits Step S YES then the CPU determines a content of the hits Step S . Next the CPU calculates points that are scored based on the content of the hits and the on base situation of the runner character s RC Step S . The CPU then transmits HTML data to the communication terminal Step S . The transmitted HTML data is for displaying a web page that includes the content of the hits determined at Step S and the points calculated at Step S. The CPU adds the points calculated at Step S to the total score to update the same Step S . Next if the total score is equal to or greater than a given value ten for example Step S YES the CPU provides the user with a benefit Step S . If the total score is less than the given value the CPU proceeds to Step S.

If the hitting result is outs at Step S the CPU adds one to the number of outs that is memorized in the RAM Step S . Then the CPU transmits HTML data to the communication terminal Step S . The transmitted HTML data is for displaying the web page P illustrated in . If the number of outs reaches three Step S YES the CPU terminates the mission processing. If the number of outs is less than three the CPU proceeds to Step S.

As described above according to the first embodiment when a hitting event is generated based on information of an operational input under an on base situation being set point s are scored based on the on base situation being set and the hitting event. That is the score is not only determined based solely on the information of the operational input but is influenced by the on base situation that is set before the hitting event. This allows the user to keep interest with regard to a process until point s are scored. Therefore monotonous game play that a user pursues a game result only which is a problem of conventional games is restrained thus game entertainment is enhanced.

In the case of a baseball game as exemplified in the present embodiment a situation that can be set before a hitting event by a batter can be any one of situations each of which positions a different number of runners on base s . In this case there are more possibilities of scoring or possibilities of increasing the total score as a number of the runners on the base s increases. Thus a user becomes interested in the situation that is set and therefore keeps interest with regard to a game process until the total score is determined.

An on base situation of the runner character s RC is randomly set according to the first embodiment. The second embodiment differs from the first embodiment in that the on base situation of the runner character s RC is set for a game playing user based on a number of users who are associated with the game playing user.

The acquirer includes a function for acquiring access information from a user. Access may be login access by transmitting information required for authentication such as a password unique identifier or etc. from the communication terminal . Access may be access for requesting update of a web page by transmitting information regarding operational inputs in the game after login transmitting a HTTP request for example .

The function of the acquirer may be realized as described below. The CPU of the game server records user access information in the database server as log data every time the CPU recognizes access based on user ID. illustrates an example of configuration of log data. As illustrated in the log data indicates user ID and time information of access in order of time when access is recognized.

For example when receiving a request for transmitting HTML data for displaying the top page illustrated in the CPU may record user ID and time information of access as the log data. When recognizing a selection operation to the button m in the top page of the CPU may record user ID and time information of access as the log data.

The calculator has a function for calculating a number of users who are friends of a game playing user namely a first user and performs access during a period of time. Here two methods may be applied to determine a beginning point of time for the period of time. One of the methods is a method to set a time when a game playing user logs in as a reference time and to subsequently calculate a number of users accessing to the game during a period of time beginning from the reference time. Another method is a method to set a time when access occurs due to an operational input of the game playing user as a reference time and to calculate a number of users accessing to the game during a period of time beginning from the reference time. With the latter method the CPU calculates the number of the users every time access occurs which results in a certain load. On the other hand with the latter method accuracy of the calculated number of the users becomes high. Assuming that a user does not necessarily access immediately after login of the user accuracy of the calculated number of users with the latter method becomes higher than that with the former method.

The calculator may be realized as described below. The CPU of the game server accesses to the game database server to refer to the log data and then calculates a number of users who are friends of the game playing user and performs access during a period of time beginning from a login time of the game playing user. Alternatively the CPU accesses to the game database server to refer to the log data every time access occurs from the game playing user and then calculates a number of users who are friends of the game playing user and performs access during a period of time beginning from the access time of the game playing user. Note that the CPU refers to user data of the game playing user to specify the friends of the game playing user.

In the present embodiment the setter sets the situation such that the game result is advantageous for the game playing user namely a first user as the number of the users that is calculated by the calculator increases. Here to set the situation such that the game result is advantageous . . . may be to set the situation of bases loaded or to set the situation such that runners are positioned on the second or third base assuming that game result is a score. The setter may set the on base situation based on situation setting data exemplified in . The situation setting data of which is memorized in the game database includes a number of friends who login to the game and a number and position s of runner s runner character s RC . In the number of runner s corresponds to the number of the friends. According to the situation setting data exemplified in as the number of friends who login to the game increases the runner character s RC are positioned such that the game playing user can score high easier.

The function of the setter can be realized as described below. The CPU of the game server generates HTML data and transmits the HTML data to the communication terminal through the communication interface unit . This HTML data is for displaying the web page P illustrated in . When the button m is selected on the web page P of the CPU determines a number of runner s and base s on which the runner s are positioned. This determination is based on the situation setting data exemplified in . The CPU may determine the number of runner s and the base s on which the runner s are positioned according to a certain rule. Then the CPU generates HTML data for displaying the web page P of to the communication terminal .

Next an example of processing flow performed by the game control device according to the present embodiment will be described with reference to the flowcharts in . The flowchart of is for explaining a part that differs from the flowcharts illustrated in . In the same signs as are applied for the common part. The flowchart of is mainly performed by the setter and the calculator .

After recognizing that the button m decision has been selected in the web page P of Step S YES the CPU refers to the log data of and then calculates a number of users who are friends of a game playing user and performs access during a period of time Step S . Next the CPU refers to the situation setting data of and then sets a number of runner character s RC and position s of the runner character s Step S . The CPU then transmits HTML data to the communication terminal Step S . This HTML data is for displaying the web page P illustrated in . The subsequent processing are the same as those described in flowchart of .

As described above there is the following advantageous effect with this game control device according to the second embodiment as well as the advantageous effect based on the game control device according to the first embodiment. That is as a number of users who are associated with a game playing user namely a first user and performs access during the period of time increases the first user can obtain more advantageous game result. Thereby the first user is motivated to access together with the other users friends for example who are associated with the first user for the purpose of obtaining more advantageous game result. That is the friends recognize that they receive more benefits as they access to the game frequently thereby contributing increase in access numbers of the game as a whole. Resultantly community in the game is more activated and a social network in the game is expanded. Moreover in order for a user to receive the benefit described above it is assumed that the user asks his or her friend to access to the game by chatting sending a mail in the game or the other means for obtaining a benefit described above. Then game community in the game is even more activated.

In the second embodiment when a hitting event is generated more than two times consecutively the setter may set an on base situation before each hitting event such that a game result is advantageous for a game playing user namely a first user as a value increases. Here the value is initially a number of users calculated by the calculator and the value is decreased by one every time the hitting event is generated.

For example assuming that an on base situation is set based on a fixed number of users number of friends every time a hitting event is generated the on base situation is always set such that a user is able to obtain an advantageous game result if the number of users are large. Thus a user who has a large number of friends receive considerable benefits and fairness of users in the game may not be guaranteed. On the other hand according to the game control device of this modified example a value which an on base situation is set based on is decreased every time a hitting event is generated and an on base situation is set based on the decreased value accordingly a possibility can be reduced that fairness of users is not be guaranteed.

The function of the setter of the present modified example can be realized as described below. The CPU of the game server records a number of friends of a game playing user as a reference value in the RAM . The number of friends are calculated in Step S of the flowchart illustrated in . Here when a hitting event is generated more than two times the CPU may decrease the reference value in the RAM by one every time the hitting event is generated. For example if the reference value is five in the first hitting event runner characters RC are positioned on the first to third bases respectively with reference to the situation setting data illustrated in . Then the reference value is decreased to four in the second hitting event and thus runner characters RC are positioned on the second and the third bases. That is the number of runner characters is decreased by one and thus a situation in which higher points are scored is less likely to occur in the second hitting event than the first hitting event.

In the second embodiment the setter may set the on base situation based on the access information acquired by the acquirer such that the game result is advantageous for a game playing user namely a first user as degree of intimacy between the game playing user and a second user increases. The second user is a user who is associated with the first user and performing access during a period of time. The degree of intimacy indicates a degree of association of the first user and the second user on the game.

Here a degree of intimacy may be numerical data that indicates a degree of association of users. Such numerical data is determined under a certain rule. is an example of data of degree of intimacy. In the example of the data of degree of intimacy data such as frequency of transmission and reception with regard to cheering messages between users Cheering frequency a number of times of transmission and reception with regard to presents such as items usable in the game Number of times of presents and the like in association with user ID of friends of respective users. The degree of intimacy is set under a certain rule based on the frequency and the number of times described above. The degree of intimacy is set to be higher value as the cheering frequency or the number of time of presents increases. In the certain rule weighting may be considered for respective fields Cheering frequency and Number of times of presents in FIG. for example that are basis for setting the degree of intimacy. For example the degree of intimacy may be set to a high value in the case in which the number of times of presents is large even if the cheering frequency is low. The data of degree of intimacy is recorded in the user database for example.

Consequently the higher a degree of intimacy between a game playing user and the user s friend is the more advantageous game result the game playing user obtains. In the case of a baseball game for example a situation that can be set before a hitting event by a batter can be any one of situations each of which positions runner s on different base s . In this case as the degree of intimacy increase a runner may be positioned on a second or a third base rather than a first base. This allows a user to be motivated to access to the game together with friend s whose degree of intimacy with the user is high thereby strengthening association with the friend s .

The function of the setter will be realized as described below. The CPU of the game server performs processing with regard to user data and data of degree of intimacy for each user ID. The CPU transmits and receives cheering messages or presents between friends through the communication interface unit based on requests from users. Based on the transmission and the reception the CPU updates the data of degree of intimacy for the friends.

When a user is specified who has a degree of intimacy higher than a given threshold with a game playing user the setter may set an on base situation of bases loaded or set an on base situation such that runners characters RC are positioned on the second or third base.

In the second embodiment the setter may set the on base situation for a game playing user namely a first user such that a second user corresponds to the runner character RC based on the access information acquired by the acquirer . The second user is a user who is associated with the first user and performing access during a period of time.

The second user a friend of the first user is a user who is playing the game at substantially the same time as the first user game playing user . Because the hitting event is held such that the friend is used as the running character RC the game playing user has a feeling as if he or she was playing a baseball game together with the friend. This allows the game playing user to be motivated after the hitting event to strengthen a degree of association with the friend.

In the modified example 3 the CPU refers to log data and extracts friend s who perform access during a period of time. Then the CPU associates user ID s of the extracted friend s with runner character s RC. As illustrated in the CPU may cause the communication terminal to display a web page that includes areas . The areas are for displaying user names of the friends in the vicinity of runner characters RC RC respectively.

In the second embodiment when the running character RC exists on at least one base the setter may set the on base situation such that the running character RC corresponding to a second user a friend of a first user is positioned on a base closer to the home base as degree of intimacy between a first user a game playing user and the second user increases.

This allows the game playing user to be motivated to concentrate on playing in the hitting event in order to get the friend to reach the home base.

With the setter in the present modified example the CPU associates the friend whose degree of intimacy is high with the game playing user with a runner character RC that is positioned on a base closer to the home base that is in order of the third base the second base and the first base .

In the second embodiment the setter may set the on base situation based on the access information acquired by the acquirer such that the game result is advantageous for a first user game playing user as the sum of values increases. Each of the values corresponds to different second users. The second users are associated with the first user and perform access during a period of time. Here even if only one second user exists a value corresponding to that second user can be the sum of the values .

 Value is for example a value indicating ability of the respective friends in the game a progression level a stage that the respective friends play with in the game a value indicating ability of a character or an item etc. or points that the respective friends own in the game.

With this game control device the second users friends of the game playing user are associated with the game playing user and perform access during a period of time. Each of the values corresponds to different second users. As the sum of the values increases the game playing user can obtain more advantageous game result. Thereby the game playing user is motivated to access together with the friends for the purpose of obtaining more advantageous game result. That is the friends recognize that they receive more benefits as they access to the game frequently thereby contributing increase in access numbers of the game as a whole. Resultantly community in the game is more activated and a social network in the game is expanded. Moreover in order for a user to receive the benefit described above it is assumed that the user asks his or her friend to access to the game by chatting sending a mail in the game or the other means for obtaining a benefit described above. Then game community in the game is even more activated.

The function of the setter in the present modified example will be realized as described below. Note that in the following description an example of value is a skill level that a user ID of a friend is associated with. The value may be any points action points operation points enhancement points or cheering points that the user ID of the friend is associated with. The value may be a number of players or an ability value of a player card that the user ID of the friend is associated with.

Referring to the log data the CPU of the game server specifies a friend who is performing access during a period of time. When a skill level that the specified friend is associated with is equal to or greater than a given threshold the CPU may position runner characters RC on the first to the third bases. In this way an on base situation is set in which there is an opportunity of scoring or a possibility of increasing a score. When a plurality of friends are specified the CPU may calculate a total of skill levels each of which the respective specified friends are associated with. Then if the total of skill levels is equal to or greater than a given threshold the CPU may position runner characters RC on the first to the third bases.

The exemplary embodiments of the present invention have been explained in detail. However the present invention is not limited to the aforementioned exemplary embodiments. Further it is apparent that a variety of changes and modifications can be made for the respective exemplary embodiments without departing from the scope of the present invention.

The case is explained in which an on base situation is set in the embodiments described above however this case is merely an example. A situation in which a ball is heading to a batter may be set. In this case the setter may set a situation such that a hitting result game result differs depending on a color of the ball heading to the batter. For example if the color of the ball is white the hitting result may be missing the ball or single. If the color of the ball is red the hitting result may be single or double. If the color of the ball is yellow the hitting result may be double or triple. If the color of the ball is gold the hitting result may be homerun. The CPU may determine the color of the ball randomly or with certain probabilities. The CPU may determine the hitting result missing the ball single double triple or homerun randomly or under a certain rule.

The setter may set a situation in which a user plays a penalty shootout of a soccer game to prevent a ball from entering a net in. In this case it may be configured such that gained points game result vary depending on a color of the ball that the user has prevented from entering a net.

In the embodiments described above the case is explained in which hitting events are repeatedly generated however a single hitting even may be generated.

While an example has been described in which a social network game is realized the game for which the present invention may be applied is not limited to the social network game. For example an online game system may be applied in which a server device on a network and a home online game machine are connected. With such online game system progress of the game can be controlled in the same way as the embodiments described above.

In the embodiments described above respective functions of the setter the event generator the result generator the acquirer and the calculator are configured to be realized by the game server and the database server on a network however the present invention is not limited to such configuration. All of the components may be configured to be realized by the communication terminal or a portion of the components may be configured to be realized by the communication terminal . Because the communication terminal and the game server may involve the substantially same hardware configuration the functions can be also realized by the communication terminal as described in the above embodiments. When the game is ended the communication terminal transmits data of a game result to the game server . Then the game server receives the data of the game result and records the data in the game database in association with the user.

A first aspect of the present invention is a game control device executing a game that simulates a sport or an amusement in the real world the device including 

an event generator configured to generate the event based on information of an operational input under the situation set by the setter and

a result generator configured to generate a game result based on the situation set by the setter and the event generated by the event generator.

 Event is an event that is simulated in a game. Event may be arbitrarily defined so long as it could happen in a sport or an amusement in the real world. In the case of a baseball game event may be a hitting event a pitching event a running event or the like. In the case of a soccer game event may be a penalty kick event a corner kick event or the like. Situation in sports or amusements may be in the case of a baseball game for example a situation in which a runner is positioned on a base or a situation in which a ball is thrown to a batter. Information of an operational input may be information indicating that an operational input is performed with regard to an external device that is accessible to a game control device for example. Game result may be not limited to an overall result for a game but may be a result for a phase or a part of the game. For example in the case of a baseball game game result may be a hitting result hits or outs . Game result may be points that are gotten with one time hitting.

In this game control device when an event is generated based on the information of the operational input under the situation being set the game result is obtained based on the situation being set and the event. Then the game result is not only be determined based solely on the information of the operational input but is influenced by the situation that is set before the event. This allows the user to keep interest with regard to a game process until the game result is obtained. Therefore monotonous game play that a user pursues a game result only is restrained and game entertainment is enhanced.

In the case of a baseball game for example a situation that can be set before a hitting event by a batter can be any one of situations each of which positions a different number of runners on base s . In this case there are more possibilities of scoring or possibilities of increasing the total score as a number of the runners on the base s increases. Thus a user becomes interested in the situation that is set and therefore keeps interest with regard to a game process.

a calculator configured to calculate a number of the users who are associated with a first user the users performing access during a period of time based on the access information acquired by the acquirer the first user playing the game 

wherein the setter sets the situation such that the game result is advantageous for the first user as the number of the users increases.

 Access in this game control device may be login access by transmitting information from the communication terminal that is required for authentication. Access may be also access by transmitting information regarding operational inputs in the game after login. Accessing during a period of time means that for example access occurs from a communication terminal at least once during a past period of time on a basis of the present time etc. and does not necessarily mean that continuous access or consecutive accesses should occur during the past period of time.

With this game control device the first user is a user who is playing the game. As a number of users who are associated with the first user and performs access during the period of time increases the first user can obtain more advantageous game result. Thereby the first user is motivated to access together with the other users friends for example who are associated with the first user for the purpose of obtaining more advantageous game result. That is the friends recognize that they receive more benefits as they access to the game frequently thereby contributing increase in access numbers of the game as a whole. Resultantly community in the game is more activated and a social network in the game is expanded. Moreover in order for a user to receive the benefit described above it is assumed that the user asks his or her friend to access to the game by chatting sending a mail in the game or the other means for obtaining a benefit described above. Then game community in the game is even more activated.

a calculator configured to calculate a number of the users associated with a first user the users performing access during a period of time based on the access information acquired by the acquirer the first user playing the game 

event is generated more than two times consecutively the setter sets the situation before the event on the game such that the game result is advantageous for the first user as a value increases the value being initially the number of the users calculated by the calculator the value being decreased by one every time the event is generated.

For example assuming that a situation is set based on a fixed number of users a number of friends of a first user namely a game playing user every time an event is generated a situation is always set such that the game playing user is able to obtain an advantageous game result if the number of the users are large. Thus a user who has a large number of friends receive considerable benefits and fairness of users in the game may not be guaranteed. On the other hand according to this game control device a value corresponding to the number of the users the number of the friends which a situation is set based on is decreased every time an event is generated and a situation is set based on the decreased value accordingly a possibility can be reduced that fairness of users is not be guaranteed.

acquirer such that the game result is advantageous for a first user as degree of intimacy between the first user and a second user increases the first user playing the game the second user being associated with the first user the second user performing access during a period of time the degree of intimacy indicating a degree of association of the first user and the second user on the game.

Here the degree of intimacy may be numerical data that indicates the degree of association of the first user and the second user. Such numerical data is determined under a certain rule.

In this game control device the first user is a user who is playing the game while the second user is a user who is associated with the first user and performing access during the period of time. Then the first user can obtain more advantageous game result as the degree of intimacy between the first user and a second user increases. In the case of a baseball game for example a situation that can be set before a hitting event by a batter can be any one of situations each of which positions runner s on different base s . In this case as the degree of intimacy increase a runner may be positioned on a second or a third base rather than a first base. This allows the first user to be motivated to access to the game together with friend s whose degree of intimacy with the first user is high thereby strengthening association with the friend s .

wherein the setter sets the situation based on the access information acquired by the acquirer such that the game result is advantageous for a first user as the sum of values increases the first user playing the game the values each corresponding to different second users the second users being associated with the first user the second users performing access during a period of time.

Here even if only one second user exists a value corresponding to that second user can be the sum of values. 

 Value is for example a value indicating ability of the respective second users in the game a progression level a stage that the respective second users play with in the game a value indicating ability of a character or an item etc. or points that the respective second users own in the game.

With this game control device the first user is a user who is playing the game while the second users is associated with the first user and performing access during a period of time. Each of the values corresponds to each of the second users friends of the first user for example . As the sum of the values increases the first user can obtain more advantageous game result. Thereby the first user is motivated to access together with the other users friends for example who are associated with the first user for the purpose of obtaining more advantageous game result. That is the friends recognize that they receive more benefits as they access to the game frequently thereby contributing increase in access numbers of the game as a whole. Resultantly community in the game is more activated and a social network in the game is expanded. Moreover in order for a user to receive the benefit described above it is assumed that the user asks his or her friend to access to the game by chatting sending a mail in the game or the other means for obtaining a benefit described above. Then game community in the game is even more activated.

A second aspect of the present invention is a game control device executing a game that simulates a baseball the device includes 

a setter configured to set an on base situation of a runner character before a hitting event on the game 

an event generator configured to generate the hitting event based on information of an operational input under the on base situation set by the setter and

a result generator configured to generate a game result based on the on base situation set by the setter and the hitting event generated by the event generator.

With this game control device if a hitting event is generated based on information of an operational input under the on base situation that is being set then a game result is obtained based on the set on base situation and the hitting event. Thus because complicated operational inputs are not required to obtain the game result a user can play the game with easy operation. Moreover this game control device makes the user think about which hitting event should be generated based on the information of the operational input in order to obtain a good game result under the on base situation that is being set. This allows the user to keep interest with regard to a game process until the game result is obtained thereby enhancing game entertainment.

wherein the setter sets the on base situation for a first user such that a second user corresponds to the runner character based on the access information acquired by the acquirer the first user playing the game the second user being associated with the first user and performing access during a period of time.

In the game control device when the running character exists on at least one base the setter sets the on base situation such that the running character corresponding to the second user is positioned on a base that is close to the home base as degree of intimacy between the first user and the second user increases the degree of intimacy indicating a degree of association of the first user and the second user on the game.

This allows the first user to be motivated to concentrate on playing in the hitting event in order to get his or her friend to reach the home base.

A third aspect of the present invention is a game control method for a game that simulates a sport or an amusement in the real world includes 

generating the event based on information of an operational input under the situation set by the setting and

generating a game result based on the situation set by the setting and the event generated by the generating the event.

A fourth aspect of the present invention is a non transitory computer readable recording medium containing a program for enabling a computer to perform a method the method includes 

generating the event based on information of an operational input under the situation set by the setting and

generating a game result based on the situation set by the setting and the event generated by the generating the event.

The computer may be for example a network server or a large computer etc. The program may be stored in a computer readable information storage medium such as DVD ROM CD ROM etc.

A fifth aspect of the present invention is a game system that includes a communication terminal and a server controlling execution of a game that simulates a sport or an amusement in the real world with the communication terminal the game system includes 

an event generator configured to generate the event based on information of an operational input under the situation set by the setter and

a result generator configured to generate a game result based on the situation set by the setter and the event generated by the event generator.

