---

title: Enhanced control signals multiplexed with data signals
abstract: According to one embodiment, a method includes scheduling at least one time and at least one set of subcarrier frequencies to be used to transmit each of a plurality of data signals. Control signals may be addressed to at least one endpoint and may indicate at least one time and at least one set of subcarrier frequencies to be used to transmit one or more of the data signals to the at least one endpoint. For each control signal, at least one time and at least one set of frequencies selected from the frequency range to be used to transmit the control signal may be scheduled. At least one of the plurality of control signals and at least one of the plurality of data signals are scheduled to be transmitted simultaneously by the transceiver. The data signals and the control signals are transmitted to the plurality of endpoints.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08948123&OS=08948123&RS=08948123
owner: Fujitsu Limited
number: 08948123
owner_city: Kawasaki-shi
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20120914
---
This application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 593 705 entitled IMPROVEMENTS TO DOWNLINK CONTROL CHANNEL IN LTE A AND ENDPOINT POWER USAGE filed Feb. 1 2012 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to methods and apparatuses for enhanced control signals multiplexed with data signals.

An antenna system may include multiple transceivers such as transmission sites or endpoints. A transmission site may be a base station also known as a Radio Element Control or a Baseband Unit or a remote transmission site also known as a Radio Element or a Remote Radio Head . Transmission sites provide endpoints with wireless network access. A transmission site may transmit control signals data signals and other signals to the endpoints. The control signals may facilitate the processing of the data signals by the endpoints.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure relate to enhanced control signals multiplexed with data signals. For example in one embodiment a method includes scheduling for each data signal of a plurality of data signals at least one time and at least one set of subcarrier frequencies selected from a frequency range to be used to transmit the data signal. The method further includes generating a plurality of control signals. Each control signal may be addressed to at least one endpoint of a plurality of endpoints and may indicate the scheduled at least one time and at least one set of subcarrier frequencies to be used to transmit one or more of the plurality of data signals to the at least one endpoint of the plurality of endpoints. The method further includes scheduling for each control signal of the plurality of control signals at least one time and at least one set of frequencies selected from the frequency range to be used to transmit the control signal. At least one of the plurality of control signals and at least one of the plurality of data signals are scheduled to be transmitted simultaneously by the transceiver. The plurality of data signals and the plurality of control signals are transmitted to the plurality of endpoints.

The object and advantages of the invention will be realized and achieved by means of the elements and combinations particularly pointed out in the claims.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory and are not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

In particular embodiments transmission site is capable of communicating with both wideband endpoints such as and narrowband endpoints such as . A wideband endpoint is an endpoint that is configured to decode signals transmitted using any subcarrier frequencies within the frequency range i.e. channel bandwidth of wireless transmissions e.g. by transmission site to endpoints . As an example if transmission site transmits control signals data signals and other signals to endpoints using a Long Term Evolution LTE or LTE Advanced LTE A standard such as that described in 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Release 10 or beyond the frequency range may be 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz or 20 MHz. Each frequency range may include a plurality of contiguous subcarrier frequencies that are equally spaced apart to reduce or eliminate interference between signals transmitted using neighboring subcarrier frequencies. For example in LTE or LTE A contiguous subcarrier frequencies are spaced 15 kHz apart from each other. In contrast to a wideband endpoint a narrowband endpoint is configured to decode signals transmitted using subcarrier frequencies that are within a portion of the frequency range referred to herein as the narrowband . Thus narrowband endpoint is only configured to decode signals transmitted using a subset of the subcarrier frequencies i.e. the narrowband of the frequency range but is not configured to decode signals transmitted using subcarrier frequencies outside of this subset. Transmission site may communicate with narrowband endpoints by limiting the subcarrier frequencies that carry signals for the narrowband endpoints to the narrowband.

Narrowband endpoints and methods used to wirelessly communicate with them have various advantages over previous communication schemes. During communication a narrowband endpoint may perform computations that are less complex than computations performed by a wideband endpoint . For example a narrowband endpoint may perform smaller size Discrete Fourier Transforms DFTs and use an analog to digital converter ADC with a lower sampling rate when recovering the signals transmitted to the endpoint. The reduction in computation complexity required may result in a lower construction cost of a narrowband endpoint relative to a wideband endpoint . For example low cost endpoints such as machine type communication MTC devices or sensor nodes may function as narrowband endpoints. The lower computation complexity also allows narrowband endpoint to use less power. In various embodiments this may greatly increase the battery cycle of a device. For example an endpoint may periodically awake from an idle or dormant state to determine whether a transmission site is currently transmitting data to the device. By only decoding in the narrowband the endpoint may realize power savings each time it wakes up and checks for data. In particular embodiments a narrowband endpoint may transition to operation as a wideband endpoint upon a determination that transmission site has begun to transmit data signals to the narrowband endpoint . This may allow the endpoint to receive data at a higher rate than is possible during narrowband operation. Operation of the transmission site and narrowband endpoint are explained in greater detail below.

Transmission site may be any suitable transceiver such as a base station also known as a Radio Element Control or a Baseband Unit or a remote transmission site also known as a Radio Element or a Remote Radio Head RRH . In certain situations a transmission site that is a remote transmission site may function as an extension of another transmission site that is a base station. For example the remote transmission site may send wireless signals to endpoints that are similar to wireless signals that would be sent by the base station to the endpoint if endpoint were located close to the base station.

Transmission site may include any combination of hardware software embedded in a computer readable medium or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware to implement any number of communication protocols that allow for wired or wireless exchange of information in system . Transmission site may be operable to exchange control signals data signals and other signals with endpoints . A transmission site may also be coupled to other transmission sites via one or more wired connections. These wired connections may comprise any suitable material such as optical fiber. Transmission sites may use any suitable technologies or protocols e.g. Common Public Radio Interface CPRI to communicate with each other.

Transmission site may communicate with endpoint using wireless communication via one or more antennas . In particular embodiments transmission site coordinates with one or more other transmission sites to communicate with endpoint . For example transmission site may coordinate with one or more other transmission sites to communicate with endpoint using a MIMO transmission scheme where multiple transmitting antennas are placed at different transmission sites while one or more receiving antennas e.g. antenna are located at the endpoint . Accordingly reference herein to a single transmission site communicating with one or more endpoints may also refer to multiple transmission sites jointly communicating with the one or more endpoints . Transmission site may communicate with endpoints using any of a variety of different wireless technologies including but not limited to orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA and the LTE A protocol as defined in the 3GPP Release 10 or beyond.

Antennas and may be any suitable type of antennas capable of transmitting and receiving data or signals wirelessly. In some embodiments antennas or may comprise one or more omni directional sector or panel antennas operable to transmit receive radio signals at any suitable frequency such as between 2 GHz and 66 GHz. An omni directional antenna may be used to transmit receive radio signals in any direction a sector antenna may be used to transmit receive radio signals from devices within a particular area and a panel antenna may be a line of sight antenna used to transmit receive radio signals in a relatively straight line.

System may comprise a network that includes various networks such as ISP network and WSP network . In some embodiments a network may comprise one or more networks such as the Internet a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a public switched telephone network PSTN or some combination of the above. In certain embodiments ISP network may be coupled to WSP network via one or more networks including but not limited to the Internet a LAN WAN MAN PSTN or some combination of the above. In some embodiments an ISP may provide a network node e.g. a computer system with home network access. ISP network may include modems servers gateways e.g. an ISP gateway or other suitable components.

In particular embodiments WSP network may comprise various servers gateways switches routers and other nodes used in providing wireless service. In some embodiments the servers may comprise one or more servers such as Operation Administration Maintenance and Provisioning OAM P servers Network Access Provider NAP servers Authentication Authorization and Accounting AAA servers Self Organizing Network SON servers or any other servers that the WSP may need to configure authenticate one or more transmission sites such as and provide users with wireless service. The WSP s gateways may comprise any hardware or software needed to couple WSP network with ISP network . For example in particular embodiments the gateway may comprise a security gateway and behind the security gateway an Access Service Network ASN gateway. In some embodiments the WSP network may support or implement orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA .

Any of the networks coupled to transmission site may be capable of transmitting signals data or messages including signals data or messages transmitted through WebPages e mail text chat voice over IP VoIP and instant messaging in order to provide services and data to endpoints . In particular embodiments transmission site also communicates with a base station controller that facilitates handoffs between cells and provides other functions.

Endpoint may comprise any type of wireless device able to send and receive data or signals to and from transmission site directly or via one or more other transmission sites . Some examples of endpoints include desktop computers PDAs cell phones laptops VoIP phones MTC devices or sensor nodes. Endpoints may provide data or network services to a user through any combination of hardware software embedded in a computer readable medium or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware . Endpoints may also include unattended or automated systems gateways other intermediate components or other devices that may send or receive data or signals.

Transmission site endpoints and nodes of WSP network or ISP network may each include one or more portions of one or more computer systems. In particular embodiments one or more of these computer systems may perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments one or more computer systems may provide functionality described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments encoded software running on one or more computer systems may perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein or provide functionality described or illustrated herein.

The components of a transmission site or endpoints may comprise any suitable physical form configuration number type or layout. As an example and not by way of limitation transmission site or endpoint may comprise an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate transmission site or endpoint may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.

In the depicted embodiment transmission site or endpoints each include their own respective processors and memory and storage and interfaces and and buses and . Although a particular system is depicted having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement. For simplicity similar components of transmission site and endpoints will be discussed together while referring to the component of transmission site . However it is not necessary for these devices to have the same components or the same type of components. For example processor may be a general purpose microprocessor and processor may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC .

Processor may be a microprocessor controller or any other suitable computing device resource or combination of hardware software or encoded logic operable to provide either alone or in conjunction with other components e.g. memory wireless networking functionality. Such functionality may include providing various wireless features discussed herein. Additional examples and functionality provided at least in part by processor will be discussed below.

In particular embodiments processor may include hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage .

In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translations for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. Depending on the embodiment processor may include any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor include one or more processors or any other suitable processor.

Memory may be any form of volatile or non volatile memory including without limitation magnetic media optical media random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory removable media or any other suitable local or remote memory component or components. In particular embodiments memory may include random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate. Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM or any other suitable type of RAM or memory. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Memory may store any suitable data or information utilized by transmission site . For example memory may include logic . Logic may include software embedded in a computer readable medium or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware . In particular embodiments logic may be executed to perform the functions of transmission site . Similarly logic and may be executed to perform the functions of wideband endpoint and narrowband endpoint respectively. In particular embodiments memory may include main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs may reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor .

As an example and not by way of limitation transmission site may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system another base station or a remote transmission site to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor may execute only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and may operate only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere .

In particular embodiments storage may include mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include a hard disk drive HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to transmission site where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage may be non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage may include read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may take any suitable physical form and may comprise any suitable number or type of storage. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate.

In particular embodiments interface may include hardware encoded software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between transmission sites endpoints any networks any network devices or any other computer systems. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network.

In some embodiments interface comprises one or more radios coupled to one or more antenna ports . In such an embodiment interface receives digital data that is to be sent out to wireless devices such as endpoints via a wireless connection. The radio may convert the digital data into a radio signal having the appropriate center frequency bandwidth parameters and transmission power. Similarly the radios may convert radio signals received via one or more receiving antennas into digital data to be processed by for example processor .

Depending on the embodiment interface may be any type of interface suitable for any type of network for which system is used. As an example and not by way of limitation system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a LAN a WAN a MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network an LTE network an LTE A network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or any other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Transmission site may include any suitable interface for any one or more of these networks where appropriate.

In some embodiments interface may include one or more interfaces for one or more I O devices. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and transmission site . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touchscreen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. Particular embodiments may include any suitable type or number of I O devices and any suitable type or number of interfaces for them. Where appropriate interface may include one or more drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. Interface may include one or more interfaces where appropriate.

Bus may include any combination of hardware software embedded in a computer readable medium or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware to couple components of transmission site to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or any other suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include any number type or configuration of buses where appropriate. In particular embodiments one or more buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more tangible computer readable storage media possessing structures. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive a flash memory card a flash memory drive or any other suitable tangible computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate.

Particular embodiments may include one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody encoded software.

Herein reference to encoded software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate that have been stored or encoded in a computer readable storage medium. In particular embodiments encoded software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs stored or encoded in a computer readable storage medium. Particular embodiments may use any suitable encoded software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages stored or encoded in any suitable type or number of computer readable storage media. In particular embodiments encoded software may be expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

Although has been described above as including particular components the system of may include any combination of any of the described components and any of the options or features described herein as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. For example any of the options or features described herein may be utilized in combination with the illustrated embodiments of or any number of the other options or features also described herein as would be understood by one of ordinary skill in the art.

While various implementations and features are discussed with respect to multiple embodiments it should be understood that such implementations and features may be combined in various embodiments. For example features and functionality discussed with respect to a particular figure such as may be used in connection with features and functionality discussed with respect to another such figure such as or according to operational needs or desires.

Communication is divided into units of time subframes and frequency sets that each include one or more subcarrier frequencies. In the embodiment depicted each subframe represents the amount of time required to transmit twelve symbols e.g. 1 ms in an LTE A transmission scheme and each frequency set represents twelve contiguous subcarrier frequencies. The subcarrier frequencies may be equally spaced apart to reduce or eliminate interference between signals transmitted using neighboring subcarrier frequencies. By way of example a set of contiguous subcarrier frequencies may include 3.000060 GHz 3.000075 GHz 3.000090 GHz 3.000105 GHz and so on. The aggregation of frequency sets represents the frequency range of the communication . That is the frequency range spans from the lowest frequency of set to the highest frequency of set and includes each subcarrier frequency in between these two frequencies.

In particular implementations a set of contiguous subcarrier frequencies used to transmit one or more signals for a particular amount of time may form a block. A block may include any suitable number of subcarrier frequencies and any suitable number of data symbols. For example in an LTE A communication scheme twelve contiguous subcarrier frequencies each transmitting six or seven data symbols in a given amount of time e.g. 0.5 ms form a physical resource block PRB . Accordingly the area of communication bounded by subframe and frequency set may represent two PRBs.

A data symbol is a complex number with real or imaginary components that map a group of bits to one or more modulation characteristics of a carrier wave transmitted at a particular subcarrier frequency. Groups of bits of data signals control signals or other signals to be transmitted may be encoded into data symbols associated with the signals. The data symbols may be transmitted generally after one or more processing steps to one or more endpoints via carrier waves with modulated characteristics defined by the data symbols or the data symbols that result from the processing of the original data symbols . As an example a data symbol may define a phase modulation or an amplitude modulation of a carrier wave. The modulation characteristics defined by the data symbol are determined by the bits of the data signals control signals or other signals. Particular embodiments may use quadrature phase shift keying QPSK quadrature amplitude modulation QAM 16 or QAM64 modulation to generate data symbols from the bits of the signals.

Various types of information may be sent between transmission site and endpoints . Examples of information types include data signals control signals and other signals. Data signals are carried over a connection between a transmission site and an endpoint . For example and not by way of limitation data signals may include information that transmission site receives from a network coupled to the transmission site such as WSP network or ISP network or from another endpoint located in the same cell or a different cell. In a particular embodiment data signals are sent from a transmission site to an endpoint via a physical downlink shared channel PDSCH as defined in the LTE A protocol.

Control signals and other signals such as synchronization signals and broadcast channel signals sent from a transmission site to an endpoint may be used to setup and maintain a connection between the transmission site and the endpoint . Control signals may also include information e.g. scheduling or demodulation information that allows endpoint to recover data signals sent to the endpoint . In particular embodiments at least some of the control signals and other signals may conform to the LTE A standard. For example in the embodiment depicted synchronization signals may include primary synchronization signals PSS and secondary synchronization signals SSS broadcast channel signals may include physical broadcast channel PBCH signals and control signals may include physical control format indicator channel PCFICH signals and physical downlink control channel PDCCH signals.

Synchronization signals may include one or more sequences that are known to endpoints . In the embodiment depicted synchronization signals are transmitted in the first subframe and the sixth subframe . In particular embodiments the transmission of synchronization signals may be repeated periodically e.g. twice every ten subframes . When an endpoint begins receiving signals from transmission site e.g. upon powering on or entering a range of the transmission site the endpoint may search for synchronization signals to determine a reference point in order to synchronize to the communication from the transmission site . In particular embodiments the synchronization signals are transmitted using only a portion of the frequency range of the communication. For example the synchronization signals may be transmitted using subcarrier frequencies located in the narrowband. In the embodiment depicted synchronization signals are transmitted using frequency sets 

Broadcast channel signals may also be transmitted periodically using subcarrier frequencies located in the narrowband. In the embodiment depicted broadcast channel signals are transmitted using the same subcarrier frequencies as the synchronization signals . The broadcast channel signals may include configuration information of transmission site and may indicate how particular signals from transmission site should be decoded. Broadcast channel signals may include information that is common to all endpoints such as the frequency range used by the transmission site .

Control signals facilitate decoding of data signals . Control signals may indicate which blocks of a communication e.g. a subframe from transmission site include data signals transmitted to each endpoint . For example the control signals transmitted in a particular subframe may indicate particular blocks of the subframe that include data signals for a particular endpoint . Control signals may also indicate a modulation and code rate of any of the blocks that include data signals . Control signals may also include information regarding a transmission scheme used by transmission site such as spatial multiplex transmission diversity open loop MIMO or closed loop MIMO. A portion of control signals may indicate the length e.g. number of data symbols of another portion of control signals . For example in an LTE A scheme a PCFICH signal included in control signals may indicate the length of a PDCCH signal included in control signals .

In the embodiment depicted control signals are transmitted in wideband. That is control signals are transmitted using subcarrier frequencies that span the entire frequency range of the communication. Accordingly only a wideband endpoint that is configured to sample the entire frequency range and decode signals transmitted using any subcarrier frequency of the frequency range may properly recover the control signals and use the control signals to recover the data signals sent to the wideband endpoint . Accordingly the method of communication depicted in communication is not compatible with narrowband endpoints

Communication represents a type of communication that is compatible with both wideband endpoints and narrowband endpoints . Similar to communication communication is divided into units of time subframes and frequency sets . Communication may have any suitable characteristics of communication described above.

Similar to communication communication depicts the periodic transmission of synchronization signals and broadcast channel signals using subcarrier frequencies within the narrowband. In the embodiment depicted the narrowband includes frequency sets . Communication also includes wideband enhanced control signals multiplexed with data signals and narrowband enhanced control signals multiplexed with data signals .

The enhanced control signals present in signals and may include any suitable information such as that described above with respect to control signals . Communication methods utilizing these enhanced control signals may provide various advantages over communication schemes that are limited to transmission of control signals . For example the enhanced control signals may allow transmission site to communicate with a narrowband endpoint . As other examples the enhanced control signals may support increased control channel capacity and improved spatial reuse of control channel resources relative to communication schemes using only control signals . The enhanced control signals may also support frequency domain inter cell interference coordination ICIC beamforming or diversity. In particular embodiments the enhanced control signals present in signals and may implement one or more features of the enhanced PDCCH set forth in 3GPP LTE A Release 11.

Signals include narrowband enhanced control signals multiplexed with data signals using frequency division multiplexing. That is at any particular time some subcarrier frequencies within the narrowband may be transmitting enhanced control signals and some may be transmitting data signals. In particular embodiments these signals are multiplexed according to blocks of two or more subcarrier frequencies. For example the subcarrier frequencies of a particular block such as a PRB may each carry the same type of signal either an enhanced control signal or a data signal. Signals are multiplexed in a similar manner but these signals are transmitted using subcarrier frequencies that are outside of the narrowband.

A control signal such as a control signal or an enhanced control signal may be addressed to one or more particular endpoints or it may be addressed to all of the endpoints that transmission site communicates with. A control signal may be addressed to one or more endpoints in any suitable manner. In particular embodiments a control signal may explicitly identify the one or more endpoints to which the control signal is addressed. A control signal may alternatively include a portion that is based on the particular endpoint or endpoints that the control signal is addressed to. For example in a particular embodiment cyclic redundancy check CRC data of the control signal may be determined based on an identifier of the destination endpoint. Accordingly the endpoint may detect that the control signal is addressed to the endpoint by analyzing the CRC data of the control signal in combination with the identifier of the endpoint . The identifier may be any suitable information such as a physical address of the endpoint . In particular embodiments a control signal may be implicitly addressed to one or more endpoints by sending a message prior to the sending of the control signal that indicates the subcarrier frequencies and times that will be used to send the control signal. As another example endpoints may be preconfigured to expect a particular control signal that is sent to all endpoints using a particular set of frequencies and times.

To facilitate the processing of control signals one or more search spaces may be defined for the endpoints . A common search space is a group of subcarrier frequencies that are designated to transmit control signals that are common to all endpoints . An endpoint specific search space is a group of subcarrier frequencies that are designated for the transmission of control signals to a particular endpoint . Accordingly each endpoint may locate control signals that are addressed to the endpoint by searching the common search space and its own endpoint specific search space. The search spaces may be identified by the endpoints in any suitable manner. For example the endpoints may be preconfigured with one or more of the search spaces or the search spaces may be transmitted to the endpoints by transmission site . Because a common search space is broadcast in nature transmission site may communicate control signals using subcarrier frequencies in the common search space using space frequency block coding SFBC or open loop MIMO while avoiding beamforming or closed loop MIMO.

The narrowband portion of the frequency range that includes the narrowband enhanced control signals multiplexed with data signals may be located anywhere within the frequency range. Because a narrowband endpoint should be able to sample and decode a frequency range that includes synchronization signals and broadcast channel signals to operate properly in particular embodiments the narrowband includes the frequencies at which the synchronization signals and broadcast channel signals are transmitted. For example in the embodiment depicted the narrowband includes the frequencies within frequency sets . However the narrowband portion may be widened to include additional frequencies or narrowed to include less frequencies. Although the narrowband is centered around the middle of the frequency range the narrowband portion may be located anywhere within the frequency range. For example the narrowband may include frequency sets or any other suitable combination of contiguous subcarrier frequencies.

At step at least one search space is assigned for the wideband endpoints within the frequency range. For example transmission site may designate one or more subcarrier frequencies for transmission of control signals that are addressed to the wideband endpoints . These subcarrier frequencies may be located anywhere within the frequency range including the narrowband if frequencies are available. These search spaces may be designated for control signals that are addressed to one or more particular wideband endpoints e.g. the search spaces may be endpoint specific search spaces . In particular embodiments the search space applicable to a particular wideband endpoint i.e. the subcarrier frequencies that will transmit control signals addressed to the wideband endpoint may be communicated to the wideband endpoint by transmission site before a communication including data for the wideband endpoint is sent to wideband endpoint

At step wideband control signals narrowband synchronization signals and narrowband broadcast channel signals are scheduled. Scheduling a signal may include determining one or more subcarrier frequencies that will transmit the signal and one or more times at which the designated subcarrier frequencies will transmit the signal. As an example of step transmission site may schedule control signals synchronization signals and broadcast signals . A wideband control signal refers to a control signal that is transmitted using at least one subcarrier frequency located outside of the narrowband portion of the frequency range. A narrowband synchronization signal refers to a synchronization signal that is transmitted using subcarrier frequencies that are each inside of the narrowband. Similarly a narrowband broadcast channel signal refers to a broadcast channel signal that is transmitted using subcarrier frequencies that are each inside of the narrowband.

At step enhanced control signals are scheduled for transmission in appropriate search spaces. For example in an enhanced control signal is addressed to all endpoints it is placed in a common search space in the narrowband. As another example if an enhanced control signal is addressed to one or more particular narrowband endpoints then the enhanced control signal is scheduled within the appropriate endpoint specific search space s in the narrowband. As yet another example if an enhanced control signal is addressed to one or more particular wideband endpoints then it may be placed within the appropriate endpoint specific search space s in either the narrowband or the outside of the narrowband.

At step data is scheduled for narrowband endpoints within the narrowband portion of the frequency range. As an example transmission site may schedule data signals for transmission to one or more narrowband endpoints using blocks with subcarrier frequencies located within the narrowband that are not used for the transmission of other signals such as synchronization signals broadcast channel signals or enhanced control signals. In particular embodiments transmission site may schedule data signals for transmission to one or more narrowband endpoints using blocks with subcarrier frequencies located outside the narrowband if the narrowband endpoint is capable of decoding these data signals using control signals transmitted using subcarrier frequencies in the narrowband as illustrated in further detail in .

At step data is scheduled for wideband endpoints within the frequency range. As an example transmission site may schedule data signals for transmission to one or more wideband endpoints using any available blocks that are not used for the transmission of other signals such as synchronization signals broadcast channel signals or enhanced control signals.

At step wideband control signals are transmitted. For example transmission site may transmit control signals via subcarrier frequencies that span the entire frequency range. As depicted in communication diagram the control signals are sent at the beginning of each subframe .

At step multiplexed data and enhanced control signals are transmitted. For example transmission site may transmit wideband enhanced control signals multiplexed with data signals and narrowband enhanced control signals multiplexed with data signals . The enhanced control signals and the data signals may be multiplexed using frequency division multiplexing. Accordingly at any given time particular subcarrier frequencies may transmit data signals while other subcarrier frequencies may transmit enhanced control signals. At a different point in time a different set of subcarrier frequencies may transmit data signals while other subcarrier frequencies transmit enhanced control signals.

At step narrowband synchronization signals are transmitted. For example transmission site may transmit synchronization signals using subcarrier frequencies within the narrowband. Simultaneously with this transmission wideband enhanced control signals multiplexed with data signals may be transmitted outside of the narrowband. In embodiments where the narrowband includes subcarrier frequencies that are not utilized during transmission of synchronization signals these subcarrier frequencies may be used to transmit narrowband enhanced control signals multiplexed with data signals simultaneously with the transmission of synchronization signals .

At step narrowband broadcast channel signals are transmitted and the method ends. For example transmission site may transmit broadcast channel signals using subcarrier frequencies within the narrowband. Simultaneously with this transmission wideband enhanced control signals multiplexed with data signals may be transmitted outside of the narrowband. In embodiments where the narrowband includes subcarrier frequencies that are not utilized during transmission of broadcast channel signals these subcarrier frequencies may be used to transmit narrowband enhanced control signals multiplexed with data signals simultaneously with the transmission of broadcast channel signals .

Some of the steps illustrated in may be combined modified or deleted where appropriate and additional steps may also be added to the flowchart. Any of the steps may be repeated. Additionally steps may be performed in any suitable order without departing from the scope of particular embodiments. Moreover two or more of the steps of the method may be performed simultaneously in particular embodiments. Although the steps of have been described with respect to a transmission site they may be performed by any suitable transceiver.

At step the endpoint waits a predetermined period of time before waking up. As an example and not by way of limitation a dormant endpoint may wait five seconds and an idle endpoint may wait two hundred milliseconds. At step endpoint wakes up and performs baseband sampling at the narrow bandwidth i.e. in the narrowband . That is endpoint samples a transmission from transmission site at a sufficient rate to recover the narrowband portion of the frequency range. The sampling rate of an ADC that samples at the narrowband may be lower than the sampling rate required that samples at the entire frequency range. The narrowband sampling also results in a reduction of the amount of memory required to store the samples.

At step narrowband processing is performed in the common search space and the endpoint specific search space associated with the endpoint to decode enhanced control signals. Processing may include any suitable operations that facilitate decoding of the enhanced control signals. For example processing may include filtering the sampled signals performing discrete Fourier transforms DFT on the sampled signals demodulation of the sampled signals or other suitable processing. The processed signals are then analyzed to determine whether any of these signals include an enhanced control signal addressed to the endpoint . In particular embodiments this analysis may include checking a CRC value of an enhanced control signal in combination with a physical address of the endpoint to determine whether the enhanced control signal is addressed to the endpoint . As other examples this analysis may involve a determination that an enhanced control signal is a control signal addressed to all endpoints because it was transmitted using a particular block or because it includes information indicating that it is addressed to all endpoints .

At step the control signals addressed to the endpoint are decoded and it is determined whether the communication from transmission site includes data for endpoint . For example the communication may include at least a portion of a paging message or one or more data signals sent to the endpoint . If there is no data present endpoint returns to an idle or dormant state at step . If data for the endpoint is present the endpoint performs narrowband processing to decode the data at step . That is the endpoint may perform processing on information transmitted using subcarrier frequencies that are within the narrowband. The processing performed to decode the data signals may be similar to the processing performed to decode the enhanced control signals. In particular embodiments the enhanced control signals may specify which blocks of the transmission include data signals for the endpoint . The endpoint may use this information to decode these blocks to recover the data signals.

At step endpoint determines whether wideband operation should be performed. That is endpoint determines whether it should change its configuration to operate as a wideband endpoint . If endpoint determines that it should not change its configuration then it continues processing communications from transmission site in a narrowband mode. That is endpoint will perform sampling at the narrowband portion and will only decode control signals transmitted via subcarrier frequencies located in the narrowband. If endpoint determines that it should change its configuration then the endpoint samples and processes future communications from transmission site in a wideband mode at step . That is endpoint may perform sampling on the entire frequency range and may decode control signals transmitted via any of the subcarrier frequencies of the frequency range including those outside of the narrowband. Such functionality allows endpoint to conserve power by operating in a narrowband mode as it repeatedly wakes up from an idle or dormant state to check a communication for data and then to reconfigure to a wideband mode to receive data more quickly when data is being transmitted to the endpoint . If a narrowband endpoint is only capable of operating in a narrowband mode steps and may be omitted from the method. In particular embodiments transmission site may be operable to detect that a narrowband endpoint is configured to switch to a wideband mode and thus only limits control signals and data signals to the narrowband portion on the first communication e.g. subframe while the control signals and data signals may be transmitted using any suitable subcarrier frequencies within the frequency range in subsequent communications.

Some of the steps illustrated in may be combined modified or deleted where appropriate and additional steps may also be added to the flowchart. Any of the steps may be repeated. Additionally steps may be performed in any suitable order without departing from the scope of particular embodiments. Moreover two or more of the steps of the method may be performed simultaneously in particular embodiments. Although the steps of have been described with respect to an endpoint they may be performed by any suitable transceiver.

At step narrowband processing in the common search space and the endpoint specific search space is performed to decode enhanced control signals transmitted using subcarrier frequencies within the narrowband. This step may be similar to step of . At step it is determined whether data for the endpoint is included in the communication. If there is no data present the method returns to step . If there is data present endpoint determines whether the data is limited to the narrowband portion of the frequency range. That is endpoint may determine whether data signals for the endpoint are transmitted using only subcarrier frequencies in the narrowband. If so step which is similar to step is performed. If at least one data signal is transmitted using subcarrier frequencies outside of the narrowband then wideband processing is performed to decode the data signals. The wideband processing may include any suitable operations that facilitate decoding of the data signals. For example processing may include filtering the sampled signals performing discrete fourier transforms DFT on the sampled signals demodulation of the sampled signals or other suitable processing. Wideband processing may include more complex processing than narrowband processing. For example wideband processing may include performing larger DFTs on the sampled signals. Wideband processing results in the recovery of data signals transmitted using subcarrier frequencies that are outside of the narrowband portion of the frequency range. In particular embodiments enhanced control signals located within the narrowband portion of the frequency range may specify blocks outside of the narrowband that include data signals for the endpoint . The endpoint may use this information to decode these blocks to recover the data signals.

At step endpoint determines whether wideband operation should be performed. This step may be similar to step of . If endpoint determines that it should not change its configuration to wideband operation endpoint maintains its sampling and processing procedure at step . For example endpoint may continue processing communications in the manner described in steps . If endpoint determines that it should change its configuration to wideband operation then the endpoint samples and processes future communications from transmission site in a wideband mode. That is endpoint will perform sampling on the entire frequency range and will decode signals transmitted via any of the subcarrier frequencies of the frequency range including those outside of the narrowband.

The method of allows data signals to be transmitted using subcarrier frequencies outside of the narrowband to an endpoint that is only configured to decode control signals transmitted via subcarrier frequencies located in the narrowband. Such embodiments may speed up the data transfer process.

Some of the steps illustrated in may be combined modified or deleted where appropriate and additional steps may also be added to the flowchart. Any of the steps may be repeated. Additionally steps may be performed in any suitable order without departing from the scope of particular embodiments. Moreover two or more of the steps of the method may be performed simultaneously in particular embodiments. Although the steps of have been described with respect to an endpoint they may be performed by any suitable transceiver.

Various embodiments of the present disclosure may provide one or more technical advantages. Technical advantages of particular embodiments include performing less complex computations when sampling and processing a communication from a transmission site. Another technical advantage may include a decreased cost for manufacturing an endpoint. Another technical advantage may include less power consumption. Other technical advantages will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art from the following figures descriptions and claims. Moreover while specific advantages have been enumerated above various embodiments may include all some or none of the enumerated advantages.

Although particular embodiments have been described in detail it should be understood that various other changes substitutions and alterations may be made hereto without departing from the spirit and scope of particular embodiments. For example although an embodiment has been described with reference to a number of elements included within transmission site and endpoints such as a processors memories storages interfaces and buses these elements may be combined rearranged or positioned in order to accommodate particular wireless architectures or needs. In addition any of these elements may be provided as separate external components to transmission site endpoints or each other where appropriate. Particular embodiments contemplate great flexibility in the arrangement of these elements as well as their internal components.

Numerous other changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications may be ascertained by those skilled in the art and it is intended that particular embodiments encompass all such changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications as falling within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

